Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 22596-LT
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF EUR 19,000,000.00
(EQUIVALENT TO $17,100,000.00)
TO THE VILNIUS DISTRICT HEATING COMPANY
WITH A GUARANTEE OF
THE REPUBLIC OF LITHUANIA
FOR
THE VILNIUS DISTRICT HEATING PROJECT
JULY 27, 2001
Infrastructure and Energy Sector Unit
Poland and Baltic States Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective January 15, 2001)
Currency Unit = Litas (LTL)
1 LTL = US$0.24994
US$1 = 4.00099 LTL
FISCALYEAR
January 1 December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BLS - Building-Level Substation                   ICR - Implementation Completion Report
CAS - Country Assistance Strategy                EFAC - International Federation of Accountants
CBIP - Combined Heat and Power                    IMF - International Monetary Fund
DH - District Heating                             IRR - Internal Rate of Return
DHW - Domestic Hot Water                          ISA - International Standards of Auditing
EBRD - European Bank for Reconstruction and       LACI - Loan Administration Change Initiative
Development                                       LPC - Lithuanian Power Company
EIRR/ERR - Economic Intemal Rate of Return        MIS - Management Information System
EEHPP - Energy Efficiency Housing Pilot Project   NES - National Energy Strategy
EMP - Environmental Management Plan               O&M - Operation and Maintenance (Costs)
ESMAP - Energy Sector Management Assistance       PCMG - Project Management Coordination Group
program                                           PHARE - Poland and Hungary: Action for the
EU - European Union                               Restructuring of the Economy
FRR - Financial Rate of Return                    PMR - Project Management Report
GEF - Global Environmental Facility               QCBS - Quality and Cost Based Selection
GHG - Greenhouse Gases                            SIDA - Swedish International Development Co-
HOA - Home Owners Association                     operation Agency
HOB - Heat-Only Boiler                            SOE - Statement of Expenditure
IAS - International Accounting Standards          tCe - Ton of Carbon Equivalent (for Greenhouse
IASC - International Accounting Standards         Gases)
Committee                                         VDHC - Vilnius District Heating Company
Vice President:    Johannes Linn, ECAVP
Country Manager/Director:    Michael Carter, ECCO9
Sector Manager/Director:    Henk Busz, ECSIE
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Gary Stuggins, ECSIE



LITHUANIA
VILNIUS DISTRICT HEATING PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. PROJECT DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVE ...........................................................................                                                                                                             3
1.  PROJECT DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVE ...........................................................................                                                                                                       3
2.   KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS ...........................................................................                                                                                                          5
B. STRATEGIC CONTEXT ...........................................................................                                                                                                                         6
1.  SECTOR-RELATED COUNTRY ASSISTANCE STRATEGY (CAS) GOAL SUPPORTED BY THE PROJECT .................................6
2.   MAIN SECTOR ISSUES AND GOVERNMENT STRATEGY ............................................................................6
3.   SECTOR ISSUES TO BE ADDRESSED BY THE PROJECT AND STRATEGIC CHOICES ..............................................................8
C. PROJECT DESCRIPTION SUMMARY ...........................................................................                                                                                                             10
1.  PROJECT COMPONENTS ...........................................................................                                                                                                                 10
2.   KEY POLICY AND INSTITUTIONAL REFORMS SUPPORTED BY THE PROJECT .................................................................... 13
3.   BENEFITS AND TARGET POPULATION ...........................................................................                                                                                                    13
4.   INSTITUTIONAL AND IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS ...........................................................................                                                                                    14
D. PROJECT RATIONALE ...........................................................................                                                                                                                        19
1.   PROJECT ALTERNATIVES CONSIDERED AND REASONS FOR REJECTION .....................................................1....... I 9
2. MAJOR RELATED PROJECTS FINANCED BY THE BANK AND/OR OTHER DEVELOPMENT AGENCIES (COMPLETED,
ONGOING AND PLANNED) ......................................................                                                                                                                                       20
3.  LESSONS LEARNED AND REFLECTED IN THE PROJECT DESIGN ......................................................                                                                                                    21
4.  INDICATIONS OF BORROWER AND RECIPIENT COMMITMENT AND OWNERSHIP ......................................................                                                                                             22
5.  VALUE ADDED OF BANK AND GLOBAL SUPPORT IN THIS PROJECT ......................................................                                                                                                 23
E.   SUMMARY PROJECT ANALYSIS ......................................................                                                                                                                                    24
1.  E CONOMIC .......................................................24
2.  FINANCIAL .......................................................25
:3. TECHNICAL .......................................................29
4.  INSTITUTIONAL ......................................................                                                                                                                                           29
5.  ENVIRONMENTAL ......................................................                                                                                                                                          3 1
6.  SOCIAL .......................................................33
7.  SAFEGUARD POLICIES ......................................................                                                                                                                                       34
F. SUSTAINABILITY AND RISKS ........................................................................................                                                                                                   34
1.   SUSTAINABILITY  ........................................................................................                                                                                                     34
2.   CRITICAL RISKS ........................................................................................                                                                                                       35
2A.   RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES SPECIFIC TO THE DETERMINATION OF THE NEED FOR GEF RESOURCES TO MEET THE
GLOBAL  OBJECTIVE ........................................................................................                                                                                                         36
3.   POSSIBLE CONTROVERSIAL ASPECTS ........................................................................................                                                                                       38
G. MAIN LOAN CONDITIONS ........................................................................................                                                                                                       38
1.   EFFECTIVENESS CONDITION ........................................................................................                                                                                             38
2.   OTHER ........................................................................................                                                                                                                38
H. READINESS FOR IMPLEMENTATION ........................................................................................                                                                                               39
I. COMPLIANCE WITH BANK POLICIES ........................................................................................                                                                                              39



Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
Annex 5: Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
Annex 10: Country at a Glance
Annex 11: Incremental Cost Analysis Summary
Annex 12. Environmental Management Plan
MAP
ii



LITHUANIA
VILNIUS DISTRICT HEATING PROJECT
Project Appraisal Document
Europe and Central Asia Region
ECSE
Date: July 3, 2001                                Team Leader: Gary Stuggins
Countrv Manager/Director: Michael Carter          Sector Manager/Director: Henk Busz
Project ID: P063656                               Sector(s): PY - Other Power & Energy Conversion
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)    Theme(s): Environment; Energy
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Global Supplemental ID: P073242                   Team Leader: Gary Stuggins
Sector Manager/Director: Henk Busz
Supplement Fully Blended? Yes                     Sector(s): PY - Other Power & Energy Conversion
Project Financing Data
[X] Loan    [ I Credit    [ Grant    [ Guarantee        [ Other:
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (Euro million): 19.0 (US$17.1 million equivalent); disbursement linked, level principal repayment
Proposed Terms: Fixed-Spread Loan (FSL)
Grace period (years): 3.5                              Years to maturity: 14.5
Commitment fee: 0.85% for first four                   Service charge: 0.00%
years, and 0.75% thereafter, less any
waiver
Front end fee on Bank loan: 1.00%
Financing Plan:    Source                                    Local         Foreign       Total
BORROWER                                                        0.00           0.00       0.00
IBRD                                                           0.00           17.10      17.10
BORROWING AGENCY                                              21.12            0.00      21.12
EUROPEAN COMMISSION                                            0.00             0.1        0.1
MINISTRY FOR FOREIGN AFFAIRS - FINLAND                          0.00            0.1        0.1
SWEDISH INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT                              0.00           16.10      16.10
COOPERATION AGENCY (SIDA)
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY                                    0.00           10.00      10.00
Total:                                                        21.12           43.40      64.52
Borrower/Recipient: VILNIJS DISTRICT HEATING COMPANY
Responsible agency: VILNIUS DISTRICT HEATING COMPANY
Vilnius District Heating Company
Address: Smolensko 12,
LT-2600 Vilnius,
Lithuania
Contact Person: Marijan Burinskij
Tel: (370 2) 230316               Fax: (370 2) 230702              Email: vitalijus(Lvst.lt



Estimated disbursements ( Bank FYIUS$M):
FY         2002      2003       2004      2005
Annual    2.8       7.3       5.00       2.00
Cumulative    2.8     10.10      15.10     17.10
Project implementation period: 2001-2005
Expected effectiveness date: 10/15/2001  Expected closing date:  06/15/2005
2



A. PROJECT DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVE
1.    Project development objective
(see Annex 1)
Background
Vilnius, which is Lithuania's capital and largest city, has a population of 579,000, and a residential housing
stock of 5,700 buildings, of which 85% are supplied with heat by the district heating system. The average year-
round outdoor temperature is 6.4 degrees Celsius, making heat supply an essential service. Energy consumption
for heating purposes is higher than that of western countries with similar climates due to the relatively poor
condition of the housing stock.
All but 7% of residences are privately owned. Legislation enacted during 2000 provides for the establishment of
Home Owners' Associations in each apartment building, or, in default of the establishment of such an
association, the appointment of an Administrator by the Municipality to represent the residents.
In the past, the Vilnius District Heating Company (VDHC) has supplied district heating both to the city of
Vilnius and to communities in eight other cities in the Vilnius district. It has been decided to legally separate
the heating systems in these eight cities (which are physically remote from the system in the city of Vilnius)
from VDHC, and to establish them as separate entities in each municipality. Such separation provides the
framework for incentives to develop heat supply in each location on a least cost basis. This Project is
exclusively focused on the remaining VDHC, that is the district heating system of the city of Vilnius. The
future heating needs of the eight outlying communities are being addressed by a parallel study with ESMAP
funding. All references in this Document to the Project or to the company VDHC are to be understood to refer
to the situation which will exist after the separation of the eight cities.
The construction of the district heating network in Vilnius started in the mid-1 95 Os, with most of the system
expansion taking place in the 1965-1988 period. Because of the general economic circumstances, expansion
was halted in 1989 and maintenance has been limited. There are about 460 km of pipeline in the existing
system, most of which is between 20 and 35 years old, but is reasonably well maintained. Corrosion is
relatively low due to good water quality. The failure rate per km of pipeline is high by Westem European
standards, largely due to the age of the network. VDHC plans to continue maintaining the network using its
own resources.
Heat demand in the service area of VDHC was 2,471 GWh in 1999, with a peak demand of 1, 130 MW. To
meet this demand, VDHC uses a combination of Combined Heat and Power Plants (CHPs) and Heat only
Boilers (HOBs). VDHC owns and operates two combined heat and power plants, CHP#2 and CHP#3. CHP #2
was built in the 1950s with an electricity capacity of 24 MW and a thermal capacity of 960 MW. CHP #3 was
built in the mid-1980s and is the primary source of energy in the VDHC system, producing 79% of the heat in
the 1998 heating season. It has an electrical capacity of 360 MW and thermal capacity of 570 MW. During the
heating season, CHP #3 is the least cost source of energy as it supplies electricity to the grid and heat to the
district heating network. Five HOBs are currently in operation in Vilnius. Two of these HOBs service isolated
loads in the outskirts of Vilnius. The remaining three HOBs have a thermal supply capacity of 624 MW.
There are two types of consumer connections: block (or group) substations and building-level substations, of
which there are 161 and 2,311, respectively. The block substations, in turn, supply 2,513 building substations,
for a total of 4,824. Block substations provide heat to roughly 60% of district heat consumers. The other 40%
are using heat from substations in their buildings; these substations have an average age of 22 years. The control
valves in these substations are manually operated. The production controlled operation of this design means that
the district heating system can not respond to the demands of the customer.
3



In the existing block substations, the domestic hot water (DHW) pipelines are often blocked due to corrosion,
thus causing reliability problems for customers and a maintenance problem for VDHC. Temperature control at
the building level is not possible with the existing equipment. Replacing most of the group substations with
building level heat substations, including meters and temperature controls, is designed to solve these problems.
In addition to the substation component, the project will address CHP and heat-only-boiler (HOB) equipment
replacement to reduce fuel costs and institutional support for VDHC.
District heating systems in the Former Soviet Union were generally overextended, providing heat in areas where
it was not economically viable. Furthermore, the District Heating Companies were insulated from the market as
they were given monopoly powers in designated areas. Temperature was controlled centrally, not by the
customer, resulting in excessive fuel use. The district heating systems were originally run as a department of a
municipality, with few incentives for improvement and limited availability of funds to maintain the assets. As
markets opened to reforms, the financial viability of these companies deteriorated further as most suffered from
institutional inertia carried over from their former roles. The poor financial condition of the district heating
companies during the 1990s resulted in a worsening of the quality of service provided. The primary assets have
been reasonably well maintained but are now operating beyond their design life, decreasing reliability. The
wealthier segments of the population were able to cope by seeking out alternative sources of heat supply. The
current situation in Vilnius is typical of this post-Soviet environment.
VDHC is losing about 3% of its customer base per year, as consumers are driven to alternative sources of supply
by the problems outlined above. This not only causes the revenue base to contract, but also damages the
competitiveness of district heating which relies on dense heating loads to be cost effective. Furthermore, the
corporate culture, which is improving under the current management, tends to be more supply than customer
focused.
The financial problems result in a burden on the govemment for three reasons. First, low-income households
receive income support if district heating and hot water bills exceed 25% of household income. Secondly, profit
taxes are negligible because of the low profitability of VDHC. However, the greatest potential fiscal threat is
posed by the probability that VDHC will be unable to service its existing debt to the Govemment and make even
basic investments if present trends in sales and costs continue for more than a few years.
There are about 176,000 family apartments in Vilnius, of which some 50,000 belong to families organized into
Home Owners' Associations (HOAs). Many buildings are old and energy inefficient. However, heat meters at
the building level have been installed in virtually all residential buildings by 1999, which has allowed VDHC to
switch to billing for heat based on metered data. The HOAs are the only group of heat consumers that self-
manage the heat supply to their buildings (if the technology of the substations allows for customer-controlled
operation). The DH company favors the HOAs as they take some of the administrative burden of bill collection
away from the company. For the rest of the customers, the company maintains heat supply contracts on a
family-by-family basis. At the apartment level, heat meters are typically not available as they are difficult to
justify on economic grounds.
The Project
The Project would focus district heating investments in areas where VDHC has a competitive advantage as well
as related energy efficiency investments in households. A fundamental design change in heat supply would be
facilitated by investments in substations designed to improve the quality of district heating supply by enabling
temperature control by the consumer. Such investments would also reduce the cost of supply by decreasing heat
and water losses as well as fuel usage. The Project would also support demand-side investments to enable
decreases in heat losses and further improvements in temperature control. Thus, the Project would enable
VDHC to compete more effectively in the heating market, supporting the development of heating supply at least
cost while improving customer satisfaction. The demand-side management component of the Project will be
4



supported by a GEF grant that will be addressed in a separate document to be circulated at a later date. The
elements of the project are:
*  The replacement of more than 100 block sub-stations with some 1,800 building-level substations in
residential buildings;
*  Creating an Energy Conservation Program to support upgrading the existing building-level substations
to modem consumer-controlled technology and apartment-level Demand Side Management (DSM)
measures;
*  The rehabilitation of CHP-3 and District heating pumping at CHP-2;
*  The installation of a gas pipe interconnecting CHP-2 and -3;
*  The upgrading of 4 of the 5 HOBs; and
*  Technical assistance, including consultancy assistance on project implementation and on the
development of management information systems, financial auditing of VDHC and project accounts,
twinning arrangements with Helsinki Energy, technical assistance and training for market analysis and
outreach.
Project Objectives
The Project's local objectives are to:
*  reduce the cost of district heat supply in Vilnius, with benefits to consumers and to the current account
deficit as a result of reduced fuel consumption;
*  improve the quality of district heating supply, both in terms of reliability and responsiveness to
customers needs;
* yield fiscal benefits to the Government by increasing the taxable profits of VDHC and by reducing the
number of households which require the heat and hot water subsidies aimed at low income families; and
*  support the commercial viability and possible future privatization of the Vilnius District Heating
Company (VDHC).
The global environment objective of the project is to reduce the emissions of GHG from the Vilnius District
Heating System through a targeted effort to remove the existing barriers to energy conservation. This would be
achieved by means of expanding the market penetration of the building-level substation (BLS) technology and
demand-side measures to a larger number of households while ensuring the full degree of ownership and
operation of the substations by the homeowners.
The project would promote broader and deeper penetration of energy efficiency markets, identify the barriers to
sustainability in energy conservation and test the possibilities for achieving the benefits of energy conservation
on a financially sustainable basis. In addition, a significant demonstration effect from the project is expected to
come from the implementation of the concept of a demand-side management program in the district heating
sector, with the heat supplier itself playing an active part in the DSM measures.
2.    Key performance indicators
(see Annex 1)
The key performance indicators that will be monitored focus on the project's ability to meet the development
objectives and include: (a) decreasing fuel consumption for heat related use; (b) measuring levels of customer
satisfaction; (c) increasing net financial transfers from VDHC to the Government; (d) decreasing air pollution;
and, (e) improving VDHC's profitability. Heat consumption in buildings (adjusted for ambient temperature
variations) should decrease during the spring and autumn as a result of temperature controls implemented in the
substations. VDHC should also be able to meet demand during the summer after the project is implemented.
The monitoring and evaluation of the achievement of the global environmental objective would focus on
quantifying the energy savings and associated GHG savings. The key indicators would be the GHG emission
savings and costs of abatement relative to the baseline, incorporating indirect/downstream savings to the extent
5



possible. To be able to estimate the achievement of these key outcomes, certain auxiliary indicators would be
monitored such as the fuel consumption by type and the level of penetration of energy saving technology
(building-level substations, heat meters and valves, energy-efficient windows, etc.) over time. Background data
would be established as part of the SIDA-financed pilot project.
The performance of the Energy Conservation Program would be measured primarily on the basis of the volume
of energy efficiency investments, rates of return on the investments made, volume of co-financing attracted,
and sustainability of the fund's operation in light of the emerging repayment patterns. With respect to the grant
or subsidy element of the ECP's activities, the performance would be rated on the basis of the fund
management's ability to reduce the Municipal subsidies to the level necessary to support energy efficiency
investments for lower-income households, with the government gradually taking over the subsidy inputs.
The success of the demonstration, public outreach, and information dissemination efforts would be assessed
based on the information about similar projects emerging elsewhere in Lithuania as well as in other countries of
the ECA Region.
B. STRATEGIC CONTEXT
1.    Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project
(see Annex 1)
Document number: R99-64           Date of latest CAS discussion: 05/11/99
The Bank's Country Assistance Strategy for Lithuania is designed to deepen the reforms with a view to EU
Accession, to build capacity in municipal and local institutions and to support the social areas which are not a
part of the immediate requirements for accession. This project largely focuses on capacity building at the local
level through commercialization of the district heating functions in Vilnius. Improving the financial viability
and decreasing the cost of heat supply will help residents in Vilnius by decreasing the fiscal burden and will
reduce the impact of heat supply costs on the Municipality's budget. The Project will also help reduce the
current account deficit by reducing fuel consumption. The project will provide support regarding EU Accession
issues by decreasing the impact of the district heating system on air pollution levels. The project is also expected
to have a demonstration impact for other cities.
Global Operational strategy/Program objective addressed by the project
The project is consistent with the objectives of GEF Operational Program 5 Removal of Barriers to Energy
Efficiency and Energy Conservation. Section 5.7 of OP-5 ihicludes support for activities that lead to sustainable
"iwin-win" results that demonstrate local, national, and global benefits through removal of barriers.
2.    Main sector issues and Government strategy
The Seimas approved the Government's revised National Energy Strategy (NES) on October 15, 1999. The
primary objectives of the NES are: the reliable and safe supply of energy at least cost; increased energy
efficiency; improvement of energy sector management and implementation of market principles in the energy
sector; reduction of the negative impact on the environment; meeting nuclear safety requirements; integration of
the Lithuanian energy sector into the energy systems of the EU; and, regional cooperation.
The strategic development of the energy sector is largely driven by Lithuania's desire to accelerate its EU
Accession program, requiring a liberalization of the gas and electricity markets. The Government has prepared
a plan for restructuring the electricity sector, which has been codified in an Electricity Law approved by the
Seimas in August 2000. A Gas Law was approved by the Seimas in October 10, 2000 and a Heating Law is
under preparation. The preparation of all three energy laws have been supported by EU-funded consultants.
6



The dominating issues in the energy sector over the past year have been the privatization of the Mazeikiai
Refinery, the proposed dates for the closure of the two units of the Ignalina Nuclear Power Plant and market
liberalization for electricity and gas. The Government's approach to privatization within the energy sector has
become more open and competitive. Advisors have been engaged to prepare the gas company for privatization.
The power sector is being prepared for unbundling and subsequent divestiture, starting with non-core assets,
followed by distribution. The Government has decided to close one of two Ignalina units by 2005 (a law to this
effect has been passed) and has announced that, in 2004, they will establish a date for closure of the second unit.
The Government has taken an aggressive position in adopting EU Directives on market liberalization for
electricity and gas. The Seimas has approved a law on restructuring the electricity sector which would enable
the legal separation of generation, transmission and distribution. Management and staff have been separated and
separate accounts for each function were established starting in 2001. A new Electricity Law was passed,
providing for nondiscriminatory access to the transmission and distribution networks with the price regulated
using incentive-based principles. The gas sector is among the most liberalized in Europe. Customers with
annual gas use exceeding 25 million cubic meters are free to contract directly with suppliers. Open access to the
gas transmission and distribution network has been established as well as network service prices.
Government policy in the energy sector emphasizes economic pricing, the fostering of competitive markets and
the commercialization of energy companies, in order to achieve both reliable supply and economy in the use of
energy resources. Within this policy envelope, the district heating sub-sector has long been a source of concern
since meeting district heating losses has been the largest single element of fiscal support to the energy sector.
Heat prices have, until recently, not been cost-based. Consumers, dissatisfied with the service provided by
district heating utilities, have been turning to alternative forms of heat which are in many cases less desirable
from the point of view of the national economy and the environment.
Currently, as much as 28% of heat produced by the VDHC is lost in the heat distribution network. The
economic and environmental gains to be achieved through network modernization and introduction of building-
level substations are quite large. The outdated housing stock of Vilnius provides opportunities for similar gains
through measures such as better insulation, introduction of thermostatic valves and heat meters in apartments.
The potentially high economic returns, however, do not guarantee that these measures would be delivered due to
high transaction costs and income limitations. To achieve the full set of desired improvements requires active
promotion, attractive financing, and direct incentives to some customers.
VDHC has been seeking the support of the Municipality for the replacement of block substations with building-
level substations (BLS). Under a recent VDHC initiative, the Vilnius City Council approved a raise in the fixed
cost component of the heat tariff to cover VDHC's losses in the domestic hot water network. This increase
would result in a net increase in the heating bill of about 60% of the DH customers (i.e., all customers currently
served from block substations). Simultaneously, a 5% discount on the tariff would be given to those households
whose hot water is prepared inside the building, which is the case only when the building has a BLS. This
would set the stage for VDHC's replacement of block substations by BLS. With the introduction of BLS, the
heat bill would be based on the full cost of heat supply incorporating the metered data on the amount of heat
used for DHW preparation. Thus, after the replacement of block substations with BLS (and even earlier, if the
Municipality approves the tariff raise), the customers are likely to get a higher heating bill, unless DSM
measures are implemented.
Implementation of the United Nations Climate Change Convention
Lithuania ratified the Kyoto Protocol of the UNFCCC on 21 September 1998. Lithuania thus allied itself with
members of the international community to curb carbon dioxide emissions to the environment. Under the Kyoto
Protocol, the three Baltic states are obliged to reduce their GHG emissions by 8.0 percent from the 1990 level.
Lithuania has been assisted by international experts in developing a National Implementation Strategy for the
Climate Change Convention. Among other multilateral agencies, UNDP is actively promoting sustainable
7



development in Lithuania and has a US$ 264,600 renewable (wind) energy project for the Baltic region.
However, UNDP is much less involved in the area of energy efficiency.
3.     Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices
Safe and reliable supply of energy at least cost
Lithuania has virtually no primary energy resources, apart from wood, and thus relies heavily on imports of oil
and gas from Russia for its energy needs. Although commercial energy use has decreased nearly 50% during the
1990s, the energy intensity of the Lithuanian economy remains high at 2.6 $/kgoe, which is 40% of the average
for EU countries and 60% of the average for Scandinavian countries. With world oil prices running at unusually
high levels over the recent past, oil imports will exacerbate a current account deficit which has exceeded 10% of
GDP. Part of this problem will be addressed as structural changes continue to take place in the economy as well
as sustained economic growth. However, a more immediate impact can be established by focused energy
efficiency measures. A clear candidate for this approach is finding ways to reduce the energy required to heat
buildings.
District heating systems, when well designed and run efficiently, can help reduce energy consumption
considerably.' Power plants have efficiencies of about 40% when used just for electricity, but can be up to 90%
efficient when run as combined heat and power (CHP) plants in district heating systems. District heating, when
provided from such plants, is economically attractive in locations with a high heat density. Typically, larger
cities in colder climates, like Vilnius, are ideally suited for district heating. However, energy markets in
Lithuania suffer from a number of distortions that make district heating less competitive in the near term,
principally because of the relatively small role played in heat generation by CHP plants, which in other countries
are able to spread their fixed costs over electricity as well as heat. The Lithuanian electricity market, in its turn,
is distorted by the fact that installed capacity is more than three times peak demand. This situation is primarily a
problem associated with the Ignalina Nuclear Power Plant (INPP) which was originally designed to meet the
electricity needs of the Baltic region, including Belarus. As electricity demand in the Baltics has dropped by
about 40% during the 1990s and supply to Belarus has been curtailed due to non-payments, the existing supply
capacity in the Baltics is expected to meet demand through most of the next decade. As a result, the CHP plants
are currently underutilized relative to the role they will play when the power supply is in balance with demand.
The prospective establishment of a Common Baltic Electricity Market in which markets in Latvia and Estonia
would be open to electricity trade based on EU principles, will underpin this positive trend.
In this regard, the Government has passed a law committing to the closure of Unit I of the Ignalina Nuclear
Power Plant by 2005. This may occur earlier as re-channeling could necessitate accelerating the proposed
closure date'. Furthermore, Ignalina Unit 2 is scheduled to be taken out of service, for about one year, prior to
2003 to upgrade its safety systems. As a result, there is a possibility of a considerable electricity capacity
reduction in the next few years. The rehabilitation of existing generation assets prior to 2003 will be needed to
help address this situation. The proposed rehabilitation of CHP-3, as part of this project, supports such a new
power market paradigm.
Increased Energy Efficiency
The energy intensity of Lithuania's economy is excessive by the standards of its northem European neighbors.
While factors such as past dependence by industry on cheap Soviet energy and the structure of the economy are
'The Govemment has agreed to the need for re-channeling as a trigger for plant closure, thus Unit I may be out
of service before 2005. In practice, the reactor's life time will be limited by "gap closure". Gap closure is a
process where the graphite block in which the reactor bars stand gradually swells as the reactor is in operation so
that the open gap between the bars and the block becomes too narrow. In order to continue to operate, it will be
necessary to drill out holes - re-channeling. However, the Ignalina nuclear power plant has undertaken not to
implement re-channeling for the reactors.
8



significant contributory factors, the poor design of district heating facilities and a lack of investment in energy
efficiency on the part of residents are considered to be major causes of this problem.
The project addresses these issues by providing residents with greater control over their consumption of heat and
hot water, which should be supplemented by the application of a multi-part tariff regime. Energy efficiency
investments will be further supported through the Energy Conservation Program that will target investments
which would enable heating requirements to decrease and improve the quality of supply through targeted
temperature control. Additionally, the improvements in CHP-3 and the rehabilitation of HOBs will result in
reduced fuel (and water) consumption.
Despite potentially high economic returns, measures to improve energy efficiency in the district heating system
and in the housing sector are facing substantial challenges. Lithuania's First National Communication (NC) on
Climate Change of the Republic characterizes the district heating sector as an area of focus with respect to
increasing energy efficiency and bringing down emissions of greenhouse gases (GHG). As the NC notes, it takes
450 kWh/year to heat one square meter of residential space, which is twice as much as in Denmark. The main
reason is poor insulation and heat losses in the network, as well as lack of possibility for consumers to control
heating.
The barriers to be addressed within the context of this project, through GEF assistance, are both on the demand
and supply side. On the supply side, the main barrier is the absence of appropriate marketing capabilities and
insufficient client orientation of the VDHC leading it away from participating in demand-side energy
conservation measures unless a quick pay-off can be expected through reduced losses on the supply side. On the
demand side, the main barriers are the lack of attention of homeowners to the common areas and equipment
(such as heating substations) in apartment buildings, lack of motivation to take responsibility for common
property, high transaction costs and lack of information about the benefits of energy conservation. The inability
of many low-income consumers to pay the full price of heat also presents a barrier, as does the lack of
commercial credit for many customers who have no collateral against the risk of default. The decentralized
structure of ownership and decision-making lead to high transaction costs of obtaining the agreement to
implement the needed investments. This barrier would be addressed through creating a collaborative
engagement of public authorities and private participants in the market with the VDHC's substation replacement
program.
Improved Energy Sector Management
Management practices inherited from Soviet times, despite notable improvements, continue to affect many
Lithuanian energy utilities. Inadequate information systems, insufficient attention to customer care, and poor
structures of governance, all contribute to poor cost control and poor revenue maximization.
The project directly addresses these issues in VDHC by providing for consulting assistance in project
implementation and in the development of management information systems. It also provides for a twinning
arrangement with Helsinki Energy (Helsinki Energy is a district heating company in Finland that has similar
CHP assets, market size and staff size at VDHC), which will allow the management of VDHC to benefit from
the experience and knowledge of an advanced energy company in a comparable city. hi addition, the
Municipality has agreed to introduce private sector participation through a leasing arrangement. An
announcement was issued on July 2, 2001 regarding these intentions, with a goal of establishing a 15 year lease
starting before the end of 2002. This approach is designed to improve the management performance, increasing
the efficiency of the company and the implementation of the project.
9



Implementation of market principles
Energy provision in Lithuania has, in the past, been supply-led, with a consequent lack of attention to consumer
preferences or to the use of price as a determinant of supply and investment. This has led to economically sub-
optimal decisions both by energy providers and energy consumers.
The project is designed to support the provision of heat on a competitive basis. Consumer choice is fundamental
to this design, removing barriers to their choice of supply. However, disequilibrium in pricing, system design,
environmental externalities and management focus put district heating at a false disadvantage. The project will
support fundamental design changes, installation of building-level substations, increase consumers' control over
their consumption of energy and make them more aware of options to reduce the cost of heat consumed.
Regional Co-Operation and Integration of Energy Sector with the EU
The rehabilitation of CHP-3 will increase the flexibility of Lithuania's electricity sector and thereby contribute to
the development of the proposed Common Baltic Electricity Market. Longer term, this will strengthen
Lithuania's position in wider European integration of electricity markets, while the reduction of emissions from
CHP-3 will materially assist Lithuania to meet EU environmental standards.
C. PROJECT DESCRIPTION SUMMARY
1.    Project components
(see Annex 2for a detailed description and Annex 3for a detailed cost breakdown)
The VDHC owns and operates two CHP plants, CHP-2 and CHP-3, 458 kilometers of pipeline network (over
1,000 km of pipe in 2 and 4 pipe configurations), five separate heat only boiler plants, and 161 block substations
serving 2,513 buildings. Moreover, there are 2,311 individual consumer substations in the network, of which
93% are owned by residents and the rest by the municipality. In practice, CHP-2 functions as peak-load boiler
plant since the steam turbines are small and old, whileCHP-3 with two large condensing-extraction steam
turbines is the main source of heat and power.
The primary components of the project are: (a) building-level substations, including metering and temperature
controls, DSM and new inlet pipes replacing group substations and 4-pipe systems; (b) HOB equipment
replacement; (c) rehabilitation of CHP plant equipment which has reached the end of its economic life (burner
replacement, instrumentation and control system replacement and various ancillary service upgrades); and (d)
institutional support for VDHC.
Indicative      Bank      % of     GEF         % of
Component              Sector          Costs     % of  financing Bank    ftnancing   GEF
(US$M)   Total (US$M)  financing (US$M)    financing
A. Substations and DSM  Thermal        36.17     56.3  0.00      0.0      7.50        75.0
B. Heat-Only-Boilers   Thermal         3.28      5.0   2.40      14.0     0.00        0.0
C. CHP Plant Rehabilitation  Other Power &    18.96  27.8  14.43  83.0    0.00        0.0
Energy
Conversion
D-l. TA for Financial  Finance         0.10      0.5   0.10      1.8      0.00        0.0
Auditing
D-2. TA for Management   Telecommunicatio 0.50   0.8   0.00      0.0      0.00        0.0
Information System     ns & Informatics
Imnplementation
10



D-3. TA - Project      Unidentified   1.40      3.3   0.00     0.0       0.00       0.0
Implementation Consulting
D-4. TA - Demonstration    Unidentified  1.20   1.9   0.00     0.0       0.00       0.0
Project
D-5. TA - Twinning     Unidentified   0.24      0.3   0.00     0.0       0.00       0.0
Arrangements
D-6. TA - Marketing,   Business       2.00      3.1   0.00     0.0       2.00       20.0
Outreach and Education  Environment
D-7. TA - Training for  Research      0.50      0.8   0.00     0.0       0.50       5.0
Market Analysis, M&E
64.35    99.7  16.93    98.8      10.00      100.0
Total Project Costs
Front-end fee                         0.17      03    0.17     1.0       0.00       0.0
Total Financing Required              64.52     100.0 17.10    99.8      10.00      100.0
Substations and DSM
This component would support the energy efficiency objectives of the project through implementing high-
priority investments, such as the replacement of group substations with building-level substations and related
investments. VDHC plans to install 1,400-1,800 building-level substations over four years (2001-2004) in
buildings currently served from block substations. For this purpose, the company will borrow from SIDA. To
supplement and strengthen VDHC's own investment program, an Energy Conservation Program (ECP) would
be established with GEF assistance (scheduled for Board consideration later in 2001) to support the replacement
of substations in buildings equipped with old building-level substations without temperature control. Currently,
there are some 2,300 substations of this type, some of them serving more than one building. The ECP would
provide financing to the homeowners wishing to upgrade these older substations to modem BLS technology. In
addition to the substation upgrades, the homeowners would be offered financial and technical assistance to
implement DSM measures in their apartments.
The ECP would provide both a fund to further penetrate energy efficiency investments in these markets and a
related program that includes marketing and public outreach capability. It is expected that, with GEF support,
market penetration under this component would reach about 350-400 buildings currently having older BLS. The
ECP would provide financing to penetrate this market.
The ECP component would consist of two sub-components. The first sub-component would support the
substation replacements (upgrades). The second sub-component would promote demand-side energy
conservation measures at an apartment level.
It is envisaged that there would be several options (packages) offered to the homeowners. At a minimum, this
would include the replacement of the substation and would provide additional options such as the installation of
thermostatic valves and heat allocators, energy-efficient windows, and building insulators. Reflows from
repayments would be used for similar investments.
Technical Assistance for Marketing, Outreach, and Education will be conducted in close connection with
the implementation of the activities under the financial facility described above. Consultants with experience
working with homeowners at the grassroots level would be providing assistance to help homeowners make
informed decisions. Special emphasis would be placed on the benefits of energy conservation and opportunities
offered by the modem BLS technology. Assistance to VDHC would include brand development, positioning and
public relations strategy.
11



Technical Assistance for Market Analysis, Monitoring and Evaluation. This component would consist of a
detailed study using a multi-perspective financial and economic analysis (from the utility's, customer's,
government, and global environmental perspectives) of implementing demand-side energy conservation
measures - specifically, the building-level substations and related DSM components. Such an analysis would
seek to demonstrate that demand-side energy conservation may benefit not only the consumer, but the district
heating utility itself. This is due not only to the recovery mechanism mentioned above, but also due to reduced
costs of supply - especially, during periods of peak demand. The TA component, combined with the experience
gained during the first years of the program, would be aimed at convincing the district heating suppliers that
participation in demand-side conservation measures pays off and needs to be supported. This would be
coordinated with studies prepared under the recently completed Energy Efficiency and Housing Pilot Project
and with the development of the new Housing loan to try to maximize the effects of both demand and supply
side measures. The vision is to establish a first-year program with financing and technical assistance at a level
expected to yield the desired level of first-year conversions. Data will be obtained on the paybacks and heat
costs as percent of income for the conversions that are achieved. Second-year financing terms and incentives
could then be altered depending on whether the first-year targets are reached. The intent is to trace demand
curves that can be used for subsequent determination of needed assistance. The size of the grant portion in
relation to the overall size of the investment will thus be contingent on determination of need. It will also
provide for the costs of technical assistance in estimating the market penetrations that can be expected for
different levels of financing. The component would inform further programs by engaging in market research
designed to evaluate the performance of the program, develop lessons learned from the ECP and related projects
to improve financial sustainability and maximize market penetration of energy conservation measures in the
district heating sector.
Heat-only-boilers (HOB) Replacement
To facilitate a reduction in fuel consumption and to increase system reliability, four HOBs will be rehabilitated
and one HOB will be closed. New burners, pumps and new boiler units would be installed for the four HOB
plants to reduce fuel consumption in the new peak-load operation mode and to lengthen the economic life of the
existing assets in high priority cases. These investments would help reduce costs by lowering fuel consumption
and, for the rehabilitated boilers, help avoid the considerable capital required for new replacement capacity if
these units were shut down.
The feasibility study indicated that in one region, A. Paneriai supplied by RK-4 boiler plant, consisting mainly
of industrial customers, district heating is no longer least-cost. Therefore, the boiler plant will be closed and the
few remaining customers will organize their heat supply from other sources.
Combined Heat and Power Plant (CHP) Rehabilitation
The CHP-3 plant is about 15 years old and thus some of the equipment is due to be replaced. Due to dated
instrumentation, the overall plant efficiency is about 76% whereas the modern plants would be around 90%
efficient. The proposed investments would result in a reduction in fuel consumption, thus lowering the cost of
supply. Design changes would enable the introduction of a revised operating strategy for the district heating
network to better enable the system to respond to the customers' demands. The proposed investments will also
help improve plant reliability as outages become more frequent with plant age. Reliability is expected to
become increasingly important once the Ignalina nuclear units are taken out of service. The project will fund:
the replacement of existing burners with low-NOx burners; an upgrade of the instrumentation and control
system; replacement of the ancillary systems that are operating beyond their design life; and, an upgrade of
pumps from fixed to variable flow to reduce energy costs. The CHP-2 plant will be equipped with variable
speed controlled pumping. Both plants will be interconnected by a gas pipe to reduce gas costs.
12



Management Information System - MIS
The VDHC will procure a Management Information System that includes a modem Billing and Collection
System, a Financial Management System and a Customer Database. This component is a key element to
support VDHC's commitment to commercialization. The MIS will be designed as a managerial tool, which
focuses on key characteristics of the district heating system to reduce costs and improve customer service. The
TOR are included in the Project Implementation Plan.
Twinning Arrangements
VDHC and Helsinki Energy plan to establish a twinning arrangement covering operation, customer relations,
preventive maintenance, financial management, environmental issues and modem management practices. It is
proposed that the twinning will be jointly financed by the two companies, the Govemment of Finland, and the
EU/PHARE program. The draft TOR are included in the Project Implementation Plan.
Consulting Services for Implementation Assistance
Implementation assistance covering engineering, procurement, project management and implementation
monitoring will be provided from a Swedish govemment grant. Detailed TOR are included in the Project
Implementation Plan.
2.    Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project
This project is designed to implement many of the Govemment's national objectives in the energy field at the
local level, using Vilnius to set the example as it is the largest city and has the requisite implementation
capacity. The project will assist VDHC to make the transition from being part of a centrally-directed monopoly
to being a commercial provider of heat in a competitive marketplace. VDHC is expected to reduce the
dependence of the heating sector on subsidies and become a profitable operation under municipal, mixed or
private ownership. It will improve energy efficiency, provide the appropriate economic incentives for the
consumers to limit heat consumption, reduce costs, and provide an exit strategy from areas where district
heating does not have an economic advantage over other sources of supply. In those areas where district heating
is the optimal economic altemative, the project will assist in a fundamental shift from a Soviet-designed system
to a more market-focused system based on best practice in Westem European countries.
3.    Benefits and target population
The primary project benefits will be through the reduction of the cost of supply, reduced air pollution and
improved quality of supply. An improvement in the financial viability of VDHC will benefit both the
Municipality (as the shareholder and provider of income support subsidies for the provision of heat) and the
Govemment (through increased profit tax revenues). The building level substations will support a decrease in
energy consumption and improve the quality of supply through better temperature control in buildings. Pipe
replacement in secondary systems will help improve the reliability of supply and decrease maintenance costs
and related operating expenditures of VDHC.
Decreasing heat supply costs will have a larger impact on the poor than on other segments of the population as
heat costs represent a disproportionately large component of their income (based on a Social Assessment,
included in the Project Implementation Manual, undertaken during project design). In addition, the poor have
less disposable income available to improve the energy efficiency of their apartments, resulting in
disproportionately high heat consumption. Income limitations also restrict their ability to switch to other
sources of heat supply as the investment costs in new equipment are prohibitive. This project will focus
primarily on supply side issues while the existing and proposed future Energy Efficiency/Housing Pilot Projects
addresses demand-side measures. The GEF financed aspects of this project address both supply and demand-
side management measures. The GEF component is expected to focus on expanding the market for such
equipment into low-income families where ability to pay for such equipment is an issue despite attractive
13



economic returns. The GHG emission reduction from the Vilnius district heating system is a direct global
environmental benefit from the project. It is estimated that this can reach as much as 2.4 million tons of CO2
over the life of the project. Further indirect/downstream GHG emission reductions would be expected due to the
demonstration and replication effect of the project.
A separate study of the impact on the poor indicated that the primary disadvantage of district heating was caused
by the drain on the limited financial resources of the Municipalities' budgets. The financial support required for
the heating system diverted funds that could be otherwise used to help provide income support and services for
the poor. By improving the profitability of VDHC, increased of funds would be made available to both the
central Government and the Municipality to service the needs of the poor. This problem is of even greater
significance in smaller communities, where incomes are generally lower and the cost of supply is higher.
4.    Institutional and implementation arrangements
Financing Plan
The total project cost is estimated to be about $64.5 million. The Bank would provide $17.1 of funding for the
upgrade of the CHP plant and improvement to the HOBs, while SIDA would contribute $16.1 million (of which
$3.1 million would be grant) to the funding of substations and the Technical Assistance component. VDHC is
expected to fund about $21 million of project costs from its intemal resources. The GEF has been requested to
provide about $10 million for substation upgrades and DSM. The remaining funds ($240,000) for the twinning
arrangement would come from a combination of Finnish govemment and EU grants and by contributions from
Helsinki Energy. Consulting services for project implementation would be funded by a grant from the Swedish
government.
The GEF component is expected to fund $10 million of the total project cost, focusing on energy efficiency
investments, technical assistance and training related to the project. Of this, $7.5 million would be used to help
fund substation replacement and related DSM measures through the Energy Conservation Fund, $2.0 million for
marketing and outreach, and $0.5 million for training, market analysis, monitoring and evaluation.
VDHC will fund sub-station replacement by means of a financing package which includes a $13 million loan
from SIDA and from the ECP administered by an entity hired by VDHC and funded from the GEF grant. It is
intended that VDHC will finance the block substation replacement program from the SIDA loan and implement
the installation of building-level substations, expecting a sufficient return on this investment through the heating
bill charged to the customers. The ECP would finance substations in buildings other than those served by block
substations. For these buildings, financing would be made available to Home Owners' Associations on the
basis that title in the equipment would pass immediately to residents, who would repay over a period of ten
years at an interest rate of about 10%. Repayments would be credited to the ECP managed by an operator hired
by VDHC and would supplement the funds available to the ECP for the financing of apartment-level and
building-level energy saving investments, as well as continued support for substation replacements. The flow
of funds from loan repayments would allow the ECP financing activity to continue after project implementation
is complete, thus enabling a sustainable energy efficiency program.
Lending Arrangements
The World Bank loan would be provided directly to VDHC with a guarantee from the Government of Lithuania.
The borrower has chosen a fixed spread loan in Euros, with amortization schedule linked to forecast
disbursements, with 3.5 years grace and 14.5 years to final amortization. The foreign exchange risk would be
borne by VDHC. The GEF grant would be provided directly to VDHC. A separate agreement between the
Government and the Municipality would be designed to address the responsibilities of the Municipality.
The Government of Sweden would provide about $13 million equivalent in cofinancing on terms similar to
those of the Bank to finance the substation component of the loan. In addition, the Govemment of Sweden
14



would provide $3.1 million equivalent of grant financing to VDHC for project implementation support,
demonstration of modem district heating technology and the management information system component of
institutional capacity strengthening.
The Government of Finland, together with the EU, would support a twinning arrangement between Helsinki
Energy and VDHC.
Implementation
VDHC would be responsible for implementing the project drawing on its own staff, assisted by local and foreign
consultants. A Project Manager has been selected and has been working closely with the consultants preparing
the feasibility study. The Chief Engineer for the networks has been selected to be responsible for the network
and HOB components while the Chief Engineer for the CHP plant would be responsible for implementing the
CHP component. The financial and accounting staff will be responsible for preparing the project management
reports, corporate accounts, project accounts and auditing. A consultant will be engaged to assist in establishing
financial systems and procedures. Two VDHC procurement experts have been selected to work on the project.
They will be trained in Bank procedures and will be assisted by independent consultants. The implementation
of the Environmental Mitigation Plan will be the responsibility of the Chief of the Construction Department.
The investment program of VDHC until 2004 covers replacement of block substations with about 1,800
individual substations. Upgrading of existing individual substations was initially proposed to be a minor
component of this program. However, with the support from GEF through the Energy Conservation Program,
this component was scaled up to some 350 substation upgrades, with the prospect of eventually covering many
of all the 2,300 substations requiring upgrades as the ECP would continue lending to homeowners using the
reflow from repayments after the GEF project's completion date in 2004. An agreement would be reached with
the Home Owners Association (HOA) for each of these installations or through a joint agreement with all
apartment owners (for small buildings) or by an administrator when a Home Owners' Association does not exist
(consistent with the amendments made to the Home Owners' Association Law June, 2000).
During the initial stages of the project, the participation of experienced international and local consultants will
be important for successful project implementation. The consulting team would include engineers and
procurement specialists who will be required to supplement VDHC staff with detailed design and procurement.
Consultants would be engaged to assist in establishing a management information system to meet the need to
control costs, improve customer service and develop markets.
Management of the ECP on behalf of the VDHC will be hired through a competitive tender.
Procurement
The procurement arrangements for goods, works and services to be financed under the project, their estimated
costs and proposed methods of procurement are presented in Annex 6, Table A. All procurement of goods to be
financed from IBRD Loan proceeds would be procured in accordance with the World Bank Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD loans and IDA Credits, January 1995, revised January and August 1996, September
1997 and January 1999, and using the Bank's Standard Bidding documents. Consulting Services and training
would be procured in accordance with the Guidelines for Selection and Employment of Consultants by World
Bank Borrowers, January 1997, revised September 1997 and January 1999. A "General Procurement Notice"
containing information about bidding was published in the July 2000 issue of Development Business. Specific
Procurement Notices will be published in accordance with the requirements of the Guidelines mentioned above.
15



Works
The works will be financed by the Borrower's funds and procured through national competitive bidding in
accordance with the procedures specified in the Public Procurement Law.
Goods
The goods (estimated to cost US $22.2 million inclusive of taxes and customs duties) to be financed under the
project would include equipment for CHPs, and HOBs. The majority of equipment would be procured through
ICB using single stage supply and installation standard bidding documents. For the procurement of goods the
Borrower will use goods standard bidding documents. One contract would not be on the basis of ICB:
procurement of controlled DH pumps would be procured through IS. The substations funded by the Swedish
Government wvould be procured on the basis of ICB.
Consultants for Technical Assistance and Training: The Consultants for TA and training will be selected
competitively. VDHC plans to organize twinning arrangements with Helsinki Energy, funded by the Finnish
Government and the EU. The financial auditing services would be procured on LCS basis under Bank funding,
while MIS implementation would be funded by SIDA.
Institutional Capacity building in Procurement: An assessment of VDHC's capacity to implement project
procurement in accordance with the criteria outlined in Annex 3 of LACI Implementation was completed during
the project pre-appraisal. This review addressed the legal aspects, procurement cycle management, organization
and functions of the Project Implementation Unit, support and control systems, record keeping, and staffing.
Based on that assessment, the prior review thresholds recommended are those applicable to an average-risk
country.
Prior Review: Given the level of experience of the PIU, all the goods contract procured through ICB and the
consultant contract for financial auditing of VDHC are subject to prior review. The Bank will also review,
regardless of value and the financier, terms of reference of all consultants. All other contracts would be subject
to ex-post review by the Bank on a random basis.
Disbursement
Most of the disbursements are expected to be direct payments from the Bank due to the size of the contracts.
For the smaller contracts, VDHC has expressed a preference for disbursement of the World Bank Loan to be
based initially on the traditional disbursement procedures outlined in the Bank's Disbursement Handbook.
Once VDHC is able to prepare quarterly Project Management Reports (PMR), they will have the option of
disbursing based on PMRs, in accordance with procedures in the Bank's Loan Administration Change
Initiative Handbook. Under either scenario, disbursements which are not direct payments would be channeled
through a Special Account in a commercial bank acceptable to the World Bank. The Ministry of Finance
confirmed that such a Special Account for this purpose would be opened in the name of VDHC. VDHC will
likewise manage the account.
VDHC has been informed about the rules for the processing of PMR-based disbursements. VDHC has also
been informned that the expenditures reported in the PMR would be reviewed by the external auditor, just as they
would be for any expenditures disbursed on the basis of SOEs while traditional disbursement procedures are
used.
The flow of funds for the project will be straight-forward. The funds from the Bank will flow to a Special
Account opened by VDHC and then expensed for project components. The VDHC will open the special
account in loan currency and project account in local currency in a reputable bank which will issue the comfort
letter as included in Disbursement Handbook.
16



Proceeds of the World Bank Loan would be allocated in accordance with Table C, Annex 6.
For smaller contracts, the Project will initially disburse under the Bank's traditional direct payment method,
with the option of moving to the PMR based disbursement method at the mutual agreement of the Borrower and
the Bank.
The Swedish Government Loan will be disbursed mainly by direct disbursements to the suppliers and
contractors, but it may to some extent also disburse its funds through an imprest account. The disbursement
arrangements for the Swedish Government Loan would be discussed and agreed during the negotiations with the
Swedish Govemment.
Financial Management System
Assessment of the Financial Management System. The first assessment was performed during the
preappraisal mission in May 2000. The overall financial management risk at this stage was assessed as medium.
VDHC has in place minimum required internal control and information systems. However, VDHC has since
updated its controls and information systems as outlined in Annex 5 and agreed to continue these efforts during
project implementation.
Reporting Arrangements
VDHC will prepare quarterly PMR, annual Project Financial Statements and annual corporate Financial
Statements of VDHC, since its financial viability is vital to project success.
Quarterly PMR as presented in the Project Financial Management Manual will be prepared by VDHC by the
end of each calendar quarter and submitted to the Bank within 45 days thereof. VDHC will start preparing
transitional PMR which includes:
1 A       Project Sources and Uses of Funds;
l- B      Uses of Funds by Project Activity;
I-C       Project Balance Sheet;
1 E       Special Account Statement;
2- A      Output Monitoring Report (Contract Management);
2- B      Output Monitoring Report (Unit of Output by Project Activity);
3- A      Procurement Process Monitoring (Goods and Works);
3- B      Procurement Process Monitoring (Consultants' Services);
3- C      Contract Expenditure Report (Goods and Works);
3- D      Contract Expenditure Report (Consultants' Services).
At the time of assessment VDHC had not sufficient capacity to start preparing the full PMR to establish the
basis of disbursement. It is expected that VDHC will be able to produce the full PMR within 18 months from
the beginning of the Project.
Annual Project Financial Statements will be prepared at the end of VDHC's accounting year, i.e., on 30 June
each of the year during the Project life and at the closing date of the Project. Annual Project Financial
Statements will include the following components: Project Sources and Uses of Funds, Uses of Funds by
Project Activity, Special Account Statement, and Summary of Statements of Expenditures.
Audit Arrangements
The financial statements for 1998 were reviewed by Arthur Andersen. It was subsequently decided to change
the company's financial year end to June 30 to coincide more closely with the heating season. Accordingly the
next audited financial statements will be for the eighteen month period to 30 June, 2000.
17



The financial management system of the project, including its records and accounts, shall be maintained in
accordance with appropriate Lithuanian regulations and principles that respect Intemational Accounting
Standards (LAS) as issued by the Intemational Accounting Standards Committee (IASC). Audits of Project and
Financial Statements of VDHC will be performed annually for each fiscal year of the life of the project as well
as at the completion of the Project in compliance with the International Standards on Auditing (ISA) as issued
by the International Federation of Accountants (IFAC). The scope of Project audit would include an audit of the
Annual Project Financial Statement, and Summary Statement of Expenditures (in case disbursement is done on
basis of SOE). The auditor is expected to issue an opinion on Project Accounts, Special Account Statement and
Summary Statement of Expenditures. The audited financial statement will be prepared and submitted to the
Bank in two originals within 6 months after the end of each fiscal year.
In order to ensure continuity the appointment should be made for the whole project period with a clause
enabling the VDHC to break the contract due to poor quality of audit. The independent auditor should be a
member of a professional auditing and accounting body that is acceptable to the Bank, e.g. a member of IFAC.
Supervision, Monitoring and Reporting
The assessment carried out by the Bank indicates that management within VDHC is working to overcome the
deficiencies of the past and is capable of implementing the proposed project with the support of foreign and
local consultants. A significant supervision effort will be required, particularly during the first two years when
procurement and disbursement practices and coordination systems with the co-financier would be established. It
is expected that about 17 staff-weeks of effort each year for the first two years and about 13 staff-weeks each
year thereafter would be required for supervision by the Bank.
Project monitoring would focus on a set of key technical, financial, institutional and social data to ensure that
the project meets its priority goals. The technical information focuses on the implementation aspects that are
designed to generate benefits. The financial information required reflects key issues that need to be addressed to
ensure financial viability of the company and counterpart funding for the project. The institutional issues reflect
the reforms necessary for effective management while the social assessment data focuses on the impact on the
poor.
The Bank would carry out a mid-term review of the project not later than June 15, 2003. In addition to the
topics covered under the Project Management Reports, the mid-terrn review would include an in-depth review of
the economic viability of the project components, based on actual costs and benefits achieved to date, and of the
overall institutional and financial viability of VDHC. Based on the outcome of the mid-term review, measures
would be taken to ensure the efficient completion of the project.
The monitoring of the global environmental benefits from the project (CO2 emission reduction) would be carried
out by VDHC in collaboration with an independent third party, which would be selected competitively shortly
after the project's effectiveness. The mid-term review would place a special emphasis on the performance of the
ECP from the perspective of market penetration and financial sustainability.
An Implementation Completion Report (ICR) would be prepared by the Bank with inputs from VDHC not later
than six months after completion of the project. The ICR would evaluate how well the objectives of the project
have been met, the overall performance of the project, the performance of VDHC, and lessons learned. The key
indicators with annual target values to monitor technical, financial, and social progress and impacts of the
project were agreed upon and are attached to the Project Implementation Plan.
18



D. PROJECT RATIONALE
1.    Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection
The consultant advising VDHC undertook an analysis of district heating supply versus gas-fired individual
boilers. In a few districts of Vilnius, where the heat demand density is low, gas-based individual boilers are
least cost. VDHC has prepared an exit strategy for these locations and will focus on areas where it has a
competitive advantage. The characteristics of Vilnius -- high density, long heating season and nearby low-cost
Combined Heat and Power Plants -- make district heating the least cost option in most parts of the city.
The economic merits of both centralized and decentralized heating were assessed in the main network supplied
by a combination of CHPs and HOBs as well as in each of the HOB-only supplied subsystems. Rehabilitation
of the existing centralized heating system is the least cost solution in all cases but one: the industrial boiler area
supplied by HOB plant RK4 (A. Paneriai). The boiler plant RK-4 will be closed and the few remaining
industrial customers will arrange for alternative sources of supply as the heat load has dropped from 329 GWh
in 1990 to 25 GWh in 1998, due to closure of industries.
For the integrated district heating system two major alternatives were reviewed: (i) fully-integrated, pooled
operation where full-scale load dispatch would be possible between the CHP and the existing isolated HLOBs;
and, (ii) loosely integrated sub-systems (the current arrangements). Due to the high cost of the investments in
transmission pipes and pumping arrangements to support the fully-integrated system proposal and the risks
associated with electricity sales (both price and volume), this alternative was rejected. The incremental costs
resulted in a return that was below the opportunity cost of capital. Thus the loosely integrated design option
including HOB and CHP rehabilitation was selected as the least cost approach.
For the next three years, the heat transmission pipeline investments will focus on repairs and maintenance,
minimizing investment costs. In recent years, VDHC has replaced 4 km of transmission pipeline per annum
(out of a total of about 1,000 km), funded from internal cash generation. This is not sufficient to renew the fixed
assets in the long term, but no major problems have been observed to date. Thus, financing is not allocated for
transmission pipe replacement as part of this project.
The GEF-supported components of the project seek to promote energy efficiency of both supply (the
substations) and demand sides (the consumption of heat in the residential buildings of Vilnius). Only with the
inclusion of the demand-side efficiencies into the scope of the project can its full economic and environmental
benefits be achieved as the synergies between the two sides of the process would be actualized. This approach is
highly replicable throughout Eastern Europe and the Former Soviet Union where many district heating systems
as well as the housing stock are in need of modernization to improve energy efficiency. The provision of
financial resources for partial grant financing to the consumers is potentially replicable without resorting to GEF
once it is established that demand side improvements can eventually benefit the DH companies and the
Government (see Table 3 of Annex 10 for more on the replication potential of the project).
The agreements with the homeowners would be structured to utilize the end-users' willingness to pay for energy
conservation measures and avoid subsidies for investments that are economically viable from the domestic
economic perspective. At the same time, support from the GEF would enable partial exemptions for repayments
to the ECP for those types of equipment which help reduce energy consumption but do not bring a sufficient
payback to the VDHC or to the consumers.
For the buildings with existing (old-type) building-level substations, the domestic benefits of replacing the
substation with a new BLS mostly accrue to the homeowners whose heating bill is likely to decrease due to
customer-controlled operation possible with the new BLS. However, the payback for the consumer is not
adequate to justify the expectation that the homeowners would fund the full amount of the investment
themselves. Other kinds of barriers separating the individual consumers from their common property also
19



apply, particularly with regard to high transaction costs. The global benefits of reduced C02 emissions due to
the expected reduction of heat consumption would justify the support from the GEF. On this basis, the cost of
upgrading these substations would be initially split between the GEF and the homeowners The rate of subsidy
would be reviewed during project implementation with a goal of reducing the size of the subsidy over time. The
subsidies would be differentiated by income, with households receiving an income-based heating subsidy
receiving a higher grant element, thus improving the targeting of the benefits to the poor.
For apartment-level demand-side management (DSM) measures such as the installation of thermostatic
valves and heat allocators, energy-efficient windows, etc., a similar approach will be used. The domestic
benefits of these measures mostly accrue to the consumer, whose heating bill is likely to decrease. The global
benefits of reduced CO2 emissions due to the expected reduction of heat consumption justify the support from
the GEF. The exemption rate would be assessed starting from the second or third year of the program and
changed to reflect market response.
For its part, VDHC will be asked to finance the replacement of block substations with BLS using the $13
million SIDA loan. The replacement of block substations with BLS is profitable for VDHC, and the net
revenues resulting from it would enable VDHC to repay the SIDA loan and retain with a profit.
2.     Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned)
Latest Supervision
Sector Issue                           Project                       (PSR) Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation   Development
Bank-financed                                                                Progress (IP)    Objective
(DO)
Energy Efficiency                        Lithuania: Energy                        S               S
Efficiency/Housing Pilot Project
Improve Efficiency and Safety            Power Rehabilitation Project             S               S
Cost of supply and demand-side investments   Estonia District Heating Project     S               S
Cost of Supply and denmand-side investments  Latvia: Riga District Heating Project
Efficiency and Cost of Supply            Poland - District Heating               HS              HS
Restructuring and Energy
Conservation Project (Gdansk,
Gdynia, Krakow, Warsaw)
Efficiency and Costs of Supply           Katowice District Heating Project        S               S
Efficiency of Heat Production and Supply  Ukraine- Kiev District Heating          S               S
Imnprovement Project
Efficiency and Cost of Supply and Demand    Bulgaria - District Heating Project I
mainly in Sofia and Pernik (Sofia
with EBRD)
Other development agencies
EBRD                                     Kaunas District Heating Project
EBRD                                      Sofia District Heating Project (co-
financed with WB)
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
The Projects in the four cities of Poland and in Tallinn, Estonia are in the completion phase, the projects in Katowice and Kiev
are under implementation, the Riga Project was recently approved by the Board and the project in Sofia is appraised and
waiting for loan negotiations.
20



3.    Lessons learned and reflected in the project design
The Bank's District Heating Projects in other countries have, to a large extent, been successful. Targets for
reductions in energy consumption and system improvements have been achieved, or exceeded, giving
confidence in the project design. Any problems that have arisen were typically associated with instances when
the project design has exceeded the implementation capacity of the borrower. The size of the VDHC staff, their
past implementation performance and lessons learned from similar projects were used to size this project. Based
on this review, the project size was scaled back considerably (roughly 60%) from that recommended by the
consultant.
Heat demand forecasts have been too high in some of the past projects, many of which were designed at the
beginning of the economic transition and making it difficult to anticipate the breadth and depth of market
collapse. A social assessment undertaken during project preparation has helped deal with this issue by taking
into account the limitations on affordability. As a result, the demand forecast for this project has been lowered
and is believed to be realistic. Furthermore, much of the structural reform in the industrial sector has already
taken place, limiting the impact from such problems.
The Bank's Energy Efficiency and Housing Pilot (EEHP) Project in Lithuania was particularly helpful in
guiding the design of the-Energy Conservation Program. The EEHP project helped design the incentives, the
project implementation plan and helped determine project costs and benefits and market penetration.
Some of the key lessons learned from past projects include: (-a) a focus on efficiency improvements in consumer
substations and heat source rehabilitation has provided the highest economic and environmental benefits; (b)
strong ownership of the project objectives is demonstrated by improved maintenance; and, (c) optimization of
CHP/DH system is easier under single ownership than with separate ownership of CHP and DH systems since
heat supply from the CHP plant has a substantial impact on successful operation of the district heating network.
Some experience in substation replacement and DSM programs is available from the existing Lithuania Energy
Efficiency/Housing Pilot (EEHP) Project. The EEHP established five Regional Advisory NGOs that have
institutional knowledge and have gained valuable experience in working with residential apartment owners in
major municipalities, including Vilnius. The EEHP includes a modest component for funding building-level
substations and energy-efficient renovation in residential buildings. The project focused on institutional reform
such as the establishment of Homeowner's Associations and the promotion of private sector participation in the
financing and supply of renovation services. The project languished until the Government grant financed 30 %
of the costs. Under the current proposal, the possibility of a partial subsidy or a similar inducement has been
considered. It is proposed that the homeowners who sign a contract for substation replacement early enough in
the program are rewarded with some demand-side energy conservation measures implemented by the VDHC
with a substantial discount.
The EEHP project (scheduled to close in 2001) also demonstrated that homeowners are able and willing to
invest in energy retrofitting in their buildings if provided with a support package addressing legal, institutional,
technical and financial barriers (see the Box). Decisions for building level improvements must be taken by a
formal meeting of homeowners of each building. The EEHP demonstrated that significant educational and
advisory support is required to bring homeowners to the decision making point. The VDHC would engage
consultants to help conduct outreach to assist homeowners with these investment decisions. In order to improve
returns on the funds invested, the VDHC would engage consultants to conduct economic analysis of the
effectiveness of barrier removal efforts and proposed solutions to market penetration. The marketing staff of
VDHC would be responsible for the implementation of the ECP and would receive training as well through the
outreach program. Building on the experience with the ECP, consultants would be engaged to assist VDHC
with establishing its communications strategy that would help to improve the marketability of district heat in
areas where it is least cost and provides optimum environmental benefits.
21



Box 1. Energy Efficiency/Housing Pilot Project
Summary of Lessons Learned
L essons Learned - Project Beneficiaries (HomeownerslHomeowners'. Associations)
HOAs are able and willing to renovate common property if provided with institutional support, technical support and financial incentives.
-       HOAs take debt seriously and are repaying loans, often faster than required
Case stories and examples have an important demonstration effect when communicated directly to homeowners.
Lessons learned - Legal Barriers
Proper legal and regulatory framework is mandatory to facilitate formation of HOAs and energy efficiency investments.
Lack of wider educational program regarding HOAs leads to a poor understanding of laws and regulations.
Lessons learned - Institutional Barriers
Significant institutional support and financial incentives are needed to reduce the transaction costs associated with addressing barriers to the
formation of HOAs and to private initiative in maintenance of residential buildings.
HOAs are hesitant to invest in project preparation (energy audit and preparation of investment proposal); however, they are willing to cover
some expenses for design, procurement and supervision consultant services.
Privatization of municipal maintenance companies would help to facilitate formation of HOAs by removing artificial pricing of maintenance
services, opening the door to competition in the sector and offering homeowners choices in maintenance services.
Lessons learned - Energy Efficiency and Energy Savings
The main motivations for homeowners when they decide to take the loan are (in order of importance): (i) to improve their own apartment,
e.g. improved indoor climate, better windows; (ii) to carry out urgent repairs of the bui!ding (leaking roofs, etc.); (iii) to obtain energy savings.
After project implementation, homeowners become more interested in energy savings and some start planning new projects.
Once payment for heat is based on building level metering and size of apartments, the actual energy savings - reduced consumption - varies
significantly from building to building and can be negative due to increased consumption - from a desire to have warmer room temperatures.
Metering in individual apartments with thermostatic valves and heat cost allocators have demonstrated high energy savings and satisfaction.
Lessons learned - Financial Barriers
Homeowners are willing to invest in energy efficiency and renovation if supported with financial incentives, i.e. tax benefits and grant
elements. Public outreach alone will not convince homeowners.
Lack of collateral is a key obstacle to private sector lending to HOAs. Transaction costs associated with administering the subloan as it is
currently structured make this product unattractive for commercial banks. Other financial products could be more effective in mobilizing investments
in energy efficiency retrofitting.
4.      Indications of borrower and recipient commitment and ownership
The VDHC management has assigned a broad range of their technical and financial staff to work closely with
the Swedish-funded consultants, AF Intemational, to prepare the project. The General Director has been
personally involved from the early stages of project development, as well as his senior staff. This has resulted in
a high degree of ownership of the project by VDHC. Project design is clearly a reflection of the borrower's
commitment to the project as it not only presents a change in strategic outlook, but will also be the focal point of
their corporate activities over the life of the Project.
Govemment commitment has been demonstrated during all parts of project development. The Govemment
initiated the request for the project and assisted in arranging for Swedish Govemment funding of project
preparation. Periodic updates to the project have been discussed with the Govemment during project
preparation to ensure their continued support. The Ministry of Economy officials have supported the project
concept and the Ministry of Finance representatives have agreed to a provide a sovereign guarantee for the loan.
The loan has been included in the Govemment's 2001 public investment program.
22



5.    Value added of Bank and Global support in this project
The primary value of the Bank's involvement to date has been to ensure that the project is consistent with a
broader economic reform agenda, to help focus the project and to ensure that issues of affordability and financial
viability are adequately addressed. The primary focus of project preparation was a program of actions that
needed to be taken to enable financial viability without subsidies or increases in real tariff levels, with particular
focus on the near-term problem of debt servicing capacity. The Bank's broader policy guidance, as a component
of the ongoing structural adjustment loan, is designed to support a framework in which entities in the energy
sector can operate in a commercially sustainable manner. This project preparation effort has focused on getting
the legal and regulatory (particularly pricing) framework right and enabling a fair competitive environment
among energy suppliers.
Within the heating sector, the Bank has drawn on its growing experience in similar projects completed in other
countries. In particular, the Bank has helped guide a process of closing district heating systems in areas where it
is not viable and supporting the transition to efficient operation in the remaining areas. Based on experience in
district heating projects in Poland, Estonia, Latvia, Bosnia and ULkraine, the focus of the Bank support has been
on loss reduction, decreasing fuel consumption and system design changes to improve supply quality.
The Bank team has also helped VDHC devise a plan to remain financially viable without Govemment support.
Without the project, VDHC would soon be in the position of needing continued Government subsidies or debt
relief or both. The project enables there to be a positive cash flow to the federal budget and a reduced subsidy
burden to the Municipality.
The Bank has also helped address the issue of cross-subsidies for both gas and heat. As natural gas is both the
primary supplier of fuel and the primary competitor to district heating, the structure of gas prices is important.
The current practice of cross-subsidizing household gas consumption by large customers is being addressed by
the Govemment and the regulator.
Cross-subsidies within the district heating sub-sector are also being addressed by the legal separation of the
eight small communities from Vilnius. This change should provide an incentive to decrease the economic cost
of supply, better address affordable ways of delivering heat and reduce the impact of the sector on govemment
budgets.
Finally, as an Implementing Agency of the GEF, the Bank is well placed to introduce the environmental
dimension into the project and ensure that the environmental externalities are part of its economic justification.
23



E. SUMMARY PROJECT ANALYSIS
(Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1.    Economic
(see Annex 4)
Cost benefit NPV=US$17 million; ERR = 13 % (see Annex 4)
Least Cost Analysis
District heating options were considered relative to individual gas-fired boilers and electricity-based heat supply.
Generally, district heating is economically viable if the density of heat demand is high (above 5 MWh per meter
of pipe) and if heat as a by-product from a power plant is used to meet part of the supply. Vilnius has two CHP
plants that can be used as a source of low cost heat, thus meeting one of the criteria. Most of Vilnius meets the
heat density criterion, but not all. The feasibility study addressed each of the 24 districts within Vilnius to
assess which districts should be retained as market areas for district heat. Of the 24 districts, 15 met the criteria
with the remaining nine requiring a detailed analysis. Of these nine, one district (A. Paneriai) is proposed to be
disconnected from the centralized heat supply system. In three other districts, some design changes and limited
disconnection would make district heating supply economically viable. The remaining five districts are least
cost due to their proximity to a transit pipe to neighboring districts.
Part of the problem with the financial viability of district heating stems from cross-subsidies in gas prices.
Household gas prices remain below their economic levels while larger customers pay higher prices than can be
economically justified. The Energy Pricing Commission (EPC) has been gradually eliminating these cross-
subsidies, but further adjustments need to take place. This issue is of particular importance to district heating
companies, as gas is both the primary supplier and primary competitor (at the household level). This issue was
addressed with the VDHC, EPC and the Ministry of Economy who agreed to address this issue through the
regulatory process. VDHC will to engage a consultant to help them state their case.
Project Analysis
The economic analysis of the project focused on the returns that could be achieved using tariffs as a proxy for
valuing benefits. This approach would underestimate the economic returns, but a conservative approach is
believed to be warranted due the financial constraints imposed by having to compete with other sources of
supply. Hence, the binding criterion on selecting project components is the financial return. The project
benefits consist of the following: decreased fuel consumption from energy savings caused by improved
temperature control at consumer substations; decreased fuel consumption from CHP and HOB upgrades;
improved supply reliability from equipment replacement at the CHP and HOBs; decreased water losses as a
result of new substations; decreased electricity consumption by lowering pumping loads; decreased maintenance
costs; lower staffing requirements; and, decreased air pollution (particularly CO2).
Only components that have a real incremental financial return greater than 10% have been considered for the
project because of the need to decrease the cost of supply. Given that the real cost of capital to VDHC is
estimated to be in the 5-7% range, the project design would enable prices to decrease in real terms. All project
components have an individual EIRR exceeding 11%, with a total project EIRR of 13% (excluding
environmental benefits, 15% including environmental benefits).
The existing heat only boiler units are either beyond or approaching the end of their economic life. As the
quality of maintenance has been good, the life of the existing 24 year-old boilers can be extended with modest
upgrading of the original equipment. Some of the older boilers, however, will need to be replaced. The benefits
24



of upgrading HOBs largely consist of fuel savings due to higher efficiencies and lower electricity consumption.
Minor benefits include decreased water losses, lower maintenance costs and decreased air pollution.
The upgrading of the CHP units is estimated to cost $19 million. Replacement of some of the CHP equipment is
required as the existing equipment is past its effective life. Existing burners will be replaced with low NO,
burners to reduce fuel consumption and NOx emissions. The instrumentation and control systems will be
replaced to improve the quality of output, reduce maintenance costs and reduce fuel consumption.
The consumer substations are expected to have a particularly high rate of return, consistent with the experience
in Bank-funded projects in other countries (generally in excess of 20%). The primary source of savings comes
from the fundamental design change from a constant flow, variable temperature design (as was the case in
district heating systems in the Former Soviet Union) to a variable flow design as is the norm in western
European countries. This design change enables heat losses to be reduced during the partial load periods in the
spring and fall. Furthermore, it also enables new markets to develop by extending the season for those
customers willing to pay for this service. Water meters at the building level enable a reduction in non-technical
losses while piping improvements decrease the technical losses. Lower electricity and maintenance costs have a
minor impact on the project benefits.
The Energy Conservation Program would, by definition, fund investments whose financial returns exceed 10%,
as this is the criterion for approval into the program. Results from the market analysis shows that, in order of
priority, building level substations, building insulation, thermostatically-controlled valves and window
replacement would meet this criterion. Some of these investments include non-quantifiable benefits by
increasing the value of the housing stock.
A summary of the incremental cost analysis implemented specifically for the GEF-supported components of the
project can be found in Annex 11.
2.    Financial
(see Annex 4 and Annex 5)
NPV=US$ 17 million; FRR = 12 % (see Annex 4)
The collapse of the Soviet Union in 1990 resulted in massive increases in energy costs as Lithuanian providers
adjusted to world energy prices. In the case of district heating, which supplied 80% of Lithuanian households
and was by far the largest component of household energy consumption, the Government initially adopted a
policy of softening the impact of higher energy costs. The country's six major district heating networks, which
were integrated into the operations of the Lithuanian State Power System (now Lietuvos Energija), supplied heat
to the populations of Lithuania's principal urban areas at prices which were increasingly below cost recovery
levels.
VDHC's financial statements at December 1997 showed long-term debt of LTL 115 million, which had
increased to LTL 148 million by December 1998 giving a debt: equity ratio of about 0.4:1. A profit of LTL 6
million was earned in 1998. The company changed its year end to accord with the heating season, and the next
audited accounts covering the eighteen-month period to June 30, 2000 showed a profit of LTL 24.
Since 1997, tariffs have been approved by the National Control Commission for Energy Prices and Energy
Activities (Energy Prices Commission, or EPC). The EPC is an independent body which has had considerable
success in balancing the conflicting positions of providers and consumers of electricity, gas and district heating.
Its price determinations in its first years of operation have been based on temporary methodologies which are
not founded on long-term analysis of demand or investment needs. It has developed a new tariff methodology
for district heating, the application of which, however awaits the enactment of the new energy laws. Currently,
25



most residential consumers are charged on the basis of a single-part tariff for heat, based solely on total heat
energy consumed. Factors relevant to the pricing of heat in Vilnius include:
The current single-part tariff in Vilnius, which was set in 1998, is LTL 108.8 per MWh for residential
customers. The company is aware that the current tariff structure does not cover its real costs (particularly
cost recovery of fixed costs during warm winters). The introduction of a two-part tariff structure is expected
to improve this.
The competitive environment within which VDHC operates is increasingly difficult because of the sharp
challenge to district heating presented by suppliers of alternative heat sources, particularly gas. The research
conducted on the company's behalf confirms that it is likely to lose customers at an increasing rate if tariffs
for heat rise faster than the consumer price index. A key element of its survival strategy, therefore, will be
to seek to use targeted investment to transform its cost paradigm so that tariffs can remain at or below their
present level in real terms.
By law, the municipality of Vilnius constitutes the heating authority, and tariff applications to the EPC come
from it rather than from VDHC itself. This arrangement allows for a degree of political input into VDHC's
pricing strategy which could, in certain circumstances, prevent it from maintaining prices in real terms.
The borrower in the present project will be a reconstituted VDHC, from which its regional branches (serving
communities which are physically separated from the Vilnius infrastructure) are now separated. While
separation will pose major strategic and financial problems for the smaller communities (the transition will be
supported separately by an ESMAP study), it will greatly assist the financial position of the "new" VDHC. Pro
forma accounts and estimates for the reconstituted entity show a much better picture than for the larger
company: estimated profits of LTL 31 million in 1998 and LTL 28 million in 1999. The 1999 profit was
entirely due to the 1998 tariff increase and to the increased value of electricity sales, which offset a 4% fall in
heat sales volume and inflation-led increases in operating expenses.
Financial Problem Areas
The data available (the audited 1998 and 2000 accounts and pro forma for 1999) show the company to be
profitable in the recent past. However, it suffers from a number of chronic problems and it faces new
challenges. If not countered, the combination of these is likely seriously to compromise its future financial
performance, and could lead to an inability to fully service its debt with the Ministry of Finance.
Technical shortcomings: the impact of the technical characteristics of the company's assets, including its
CHP plant, its distribution networks and its substations, will be increasingly felt in financial terms.
Shortcomings in the original design, compounded by the technical deficiencies of the heat installations
within buildings will lead to increased operating costs, particularly maintenance costs, and to significant
opportunity costs arising from the limited availability of the CHP plant to sell power to the national grid.
Competition: VDHC is encountering new and increasingly effective competition from providers of
alternative sources of heat, particularly natural gas. The greater flexibility and control which gas boilers
provide to consumers will increasingly dislodge district heating customers from the network and erode
VDHC's revenue base. Research conducted by the consultants indicates that the disconnection rate would
probably be 1% of consumers per annum without improvements to the existing assets. The actual
experience during 2000 suggests that disconnections are currently occurring at a substantially higher rate.
Tariff limitations: In these competitive conditions VDHC can no longer regard itself as having monopoly
status in the Vilnius heat market, and will not be able to rely on regular tariff increases in real terms to cover
the increased unit costs which will result from both of the above factors -- higher fixed operating costs and a
narrower customer base. It is likely that the only pricing stance which will be compatible with VDHC's
26



survival will be a strategy of unchanged real prices over the medium term. In order to provide incentives for
customers to economize heat consumption (while not compromising VDHC's ability to recover its fixed
costs, particularly during mild winters), it will also be necessary to achieve continued real price stability
within a two-part tariff environment of instead of the current single-part scheme.
Collections: Since the separation of the district heating utilities from LE in 1997, the valuable mechanisms
which had been put in place over the previous year to enforce payment discipline among budgetary
organizations have not been available to VDHC. As a result of this, and also of the very serious financial
problems faced by the municipalities themselves since the Russian crisis of 1998, VDHC's receivables have
increased. Receivables due from households rose by LTL 4.5 million (28%) between December 1999 and
December 2000.
While State budgetary organizations had completely eliminated their heating debts by December 2000, the
amount owed by municipal budgetary organizations rose from LTL 17.2 million in December 1999 to LTL
23.6 million in December 2000, an increase of 37%. (This figure had been as low as LTL 7.6 million in
1997.)
It is estimated that collections from municipal budgetary organizations (overwhelmingly schools and
hospitals) in 2000 amounted to only 58% of sales.
In addition to normal arrears, the Municipality has been slow to pass on to VDHC the compensation it
receives from the State budget in respect of the reduced heating bills of qualifying low-income families.
Without the project, the impact of the factors outlined above on the future financial performance of VDHC is
likely to be devastating. With unchanged real tariffs, and with the customer base eroding while costs rise with
inflation, VDHC is projected to move into a chronic loss-making position from 2001. By 2006 the company
would be resorting to continuous short-term borrowings to finance its normal operations, and bankruptcy and
inevitable liquidation would follow within a further few years if fundamental changes to its operations do not
take place. Given the favorable impact of district heating on economic costs of supply and the environment, the
financial problems need to be addressed urgently.
The Financial Consequences of Not Proceeding with the Rehabilitation Project
The effects on Vilnius District Heating Company (VDHC) of a declining market share, coupled with tariffs
which have not fully covered costs in the past, have been severe. Operating margins have declined, and
liquidity reduced. Without the investments needed to enhance VDHC's competitive position, as well as other
radical measures designed to restore an adequate level of profitability and liquidity, progressive financial decline
and the erosion of the shareholders' equity is anticipated. The table below, in which an unchanged real tariff is
assumed after 1999, illustrates the trend if there is no rehabilitation:
1999        2000        2001        2002         2003        2004        2005
(estimated)   (projected)   (projected)   (projected)   (projected)   (projected)   (projected)
Heat sales volume (GWh)   2324        2296         2240        2198        2192        2188         2185
Averageheattariff         108.8       108.8        110.4       114.9       117.3       119.8        122.5
(Lt./MWh)
Total sales revenue (Lt mn.)   335    352          331         343         327         356          352
Total fuel costs (Lt mn.)  142         161         177         172         182         201          196
Other operating exps. (Lt  147         127         105         128         111          113         125
mn.)
Net operating margin      1%           7%          2%          0%          -3%          -1%         -5%
Net income after tax (Lt mn.)   1.0    1.0        (4.0)        (14.2)      (22.3)      (16.0)      (30.4)
Equity(Lt mn.)            412         318          314         300         278         262          231
27



A number of fundamental problems make it unrealistic for the Company to expect to correct the picture shown
above without radical rehabilitation and reform. The market for heat is increasingly competitive. Even apart
from the energy price issue, district heating as provided by an unreformed VDHC is perceived by consumers to
be inconvenient and unreliable and wasteful of water and energy. The extra costs thereby imposed on the
company cannot be reduced without wholesale rehabilitation. The company's overall financial situation would
make it an extremely unattractive borrower unless fundamental changes are made.
These problems will persist irrespective of the ownership structure of VDHC. They can only be dealt with by
investment at the building level and in the networks and generating facilities so that VDHC can provide a
service which is objectively competitive with other heating systems, and by improved management. The
proposed project can achieve this, and allow the current owners of VDHC to plot its future as a profitable
company.
The Financial Projections
Detailed financial projections are contained in Annex 5. They show (compared with the without-project case)
improving profits and a more secure cash position. In the year 2005 (the first post-implementation year), fuel
costs for heat production would be 18% lower, water usage 80% lower, and maintenance costs decreased by
nearly 50% compared to the "without project" case. Additionally, staff numbers would have been cut by 8%
and receivables by 25%.
While net income is projected to be positive in only a few years (because of the high depreciation charge, which
was doubled in 1999 to cover depreciation of cold water pipes taken over by the company), the cash situation is
expected to be generally satisfactory, with a funding surplus in every year apart from 2002 and 2003. These will
be the tightest years during the implementation period, when the self-financing ratio falls to 19% in 2003.
However, the company is not expected to need to have recourse to short-term borrowing during the project
implementation period or later.
Critical Success Factors
The implementation of the rehabilitation project must be accompanied by a program of immediate financial
reconstruction. The latter will require the full co-operation and involvement of public authorities, both the
Govemment of Lithuania and the municipality of Vilnius (including agencies under municipal control or
receiving finance from the municipal budget).
The loan agreement includes commitments as follows:
By VDHC:
*  that a multi-part tariff will be developed and submitted (with the approval of the municipality) to the
EPC for confirmation;
*  that collection and enforcement mechanisms will be put in place to ensure that total receivables for heat
and hot water would be decreased and maintained so as not exceed 60 days' sales by June 30, 2002;
*  that the VDHC will maintain a debt service coverage ratio of not less than 1.2, starting July 1, 2002;
and,
*  that the VDHC will maintain a self-financing ratio of 20%, starting July 1, 200 1.
By Vilnius Municipality:
* By November 1, 2001, the Borrower will submit a time-bound action plan designed to ensure
that receivables to all customers do not exceed 60 days sales equivalent by June 30, 2002 and
that the plan should be implemented starting January 1, 2003; and
28



* The Municipality should establish a non-Executive Supervisory Board, with representatives
from the business, legal, consumer-focused, energy and financial communities.
Fiscal Impact
Without the project, VDHC is forecast to face serious financial problems. Further deterioration in their position
would jeopardize its ability to fully service existing debt. With the project, VDHC is forecast to be able to fully
service debt, including debt to the Government of Lithuania, in relation to which a new repayment schedule has
been agreed.
3.     Technical
The technical solutions selected for eliminating group substations and installing building-level substations and
inlet pipes and heat-only-boiler plants represent technology that has been routinely and successfully used for the
purpose in the neighboring countries. VDHC has become familiar with the technology and design concept by
visiting many of the experienced DH/CHP companies in the region having already implemented some modern
substations and pipeline projects themselves. The combined heat and power plant rehabilitation and the process
automation rehabilitation of the CHP units in particular, require that special attention be paid to project design in
order to minimize losses of electricity sales. VDHC staff are also expected to draw on the experience of
Helsinki Energy staff (as part of the proposed twinning arrangement) who are currently undergoing a similar
exercise of CHP plant upgrading themselves.
The project costs were estimated by the VDHC with assistance from its consultants and reviewed by the Bank
team. The costs and benefits are similar to the experiences in the recent past in similar projects in Latvia and
Poland. The project cost estimates include the costs of design work and work site management, which have
been estimated at about 4% of the investment costs.
The technical aspects of energy efficiency investments have been successfully piloted in the EEHP project and
will be replicated in this project. Households will receive assistance from VDHC, the Energy Efficiency
Advisory Center and consultants to ensure that appropriate technology is properly implemented.
4.    Institutional
The VDHC is a special purpose joint stock company which is wholly owned by the Municipality of Vilnius.
The current arrangements are consistent with current global experience. However, in the recent past private
sector participation in the provision of heat has become increasingly adopted. Furthermore, there are other
examples of increasing private sector participation in similar sectors (water supply, for example). Therefore, the
Municipality has engaged advisors to prepare for private sector participation in leasing the VDHC. The
Municipality announced their intentions in a tender request issued July 2, 2001. The lease would cover a period
of 15 years. The Vilnius Municipality shall agree to undertake a detailed assessment of alternative ways of
increasing private sector participation in the provision of heat together with a time bound action plan for
implementation, taking the Bank's views into account; and shall not finalize the terms of reference for the
selection of private sector participants or finalize the selection of or enter into an agreement with a private sector
participant without the Bank's prior review and approval
The residential housing in Vilnius is now mostly (97%) privately owned. Recent (mid-2000) legislation
provides for the establishment of Home Owners' Associations, or in cases where residents fail to agree on the
establishment of such associations, the appointment by the municipality of administrators. Prior to the
installation of substations, VDHC will receive authorization from the homeowners, HOAs or the administrators.
A second institutional issue is the adjustment of the legal framework to ensure that rules are applied equally to
homeowners in multi-apartment buildings. Capital improvements involving financial obligations need to be
approved either by a majority or by 100 percent of the homeowners, depending on the nature and type of
investment made. The majority decision rule applies if the investment is related to mandatory requirements for
29



the proper functioning and maintenance of buildings as prescribed by law and other legal acts. The proposed
project is bringing about a design change in the supply of heat to residential housing.
If the substation investment is a component of an energy savings program sponsored by the state, then the HOA
may make financially binding decisions in accordance with its bylaws. This provision is not available to multi-
apartment buildings without HOAs. The majority rule also has limited experience and there is a risk of having
minorities who are in opposition to investments challenge these decisions. This risk may also lengthen the
implementation of the proposed project.
A third major institutional issue is the manner in which the municipality exercises its prerogatives as owner of
the district heating company. It will be fundamental to the commercial evolution of VDHC that the municipality
does not interfere in the management or decision-making of the company. Specifically, it must not involve itself
in the pricing policy of the company, in its dealings with the Energy Pricing Commission, in the control of its
costs, or in any other commercial area. This will pose a challenge in the development of governance structures.
The Municipality has agree to establish a non-Executive Supervisory Board, with representatives from the
business, legal, energy and financial community and undertake that the Municipality's role in relation to VDHC
will focus on overall strategy, including pricing policy, and not on operational matters or on the mechanics of
implementation of specific price adjustments.
Fourthly, the internal management structures of VDHC need to be made less centralized and more customer-
focused. The top management team should receive encouragement and practical help in their efforts to achieve
this. This issue will be addressed by the proposed twinning program with Helsinki Energy.
Executing agencies
The Vilnius District Heating Company would be the Executing Agency for the proposed project. VDHC was
registered as a special purpose joint stock company on 21 August 1997 and is wholly owned by the
Municipality. The special purpose company fulfills functions that are of vital significance for the state or whose
activities require a special regime. The company is a legal entity with full economic, financial, legal and
organizational independence. Its activity is regulated by its by-laws, laws of the Republic of Lithuania and
Governmental resolutions.
Project management
VDHC would be responsible for implementing the project drawing from their own staff, assisted by foreign and
local consultants. A Project Management Coordination Group (PMCG) would be guided by a Project Manager
who was identified at the time of pre-appraisal. One engineer would be responsible for the network and HOB
components while the chief engineer for the CHP plant would be responsible for implementing this component.
The existing financial and accounting staff will be responsible for the project Management Reports, corporate
accounts, project accounts and auditing. A consultant will be engaged to assist VDHC staff in establishing
financial systems and procedures. Two procurement experts have been identified to work on the project,
supplemented by a procurement specialist advisor, familiar with the Bank procurement requirements. They will
be trained in Bank procedures and will be assisted by independent consultants. The implementation of the
environmental mitigation aspects will be the responsibility of the Chief of the Construction Department.
Implementation of the Energy Conservation Program would be the responsibility of VDHC's marketing
department. At the outset, they will rely heavily on consultants who are experienced in implementing similar
projects. A training component is included as part of the project to ensure that this component will be
sustainable over the longer term.
Information regarding procurement administration would be collected and recorded and quarterly reports would
be sent to the Bank. These reports would indicate: (i) status of procurement; (ii) an updated procurement plan;
30



and (iii) compliance with aggregate limits on specified methods of procurement. As the implementation of the
project would be handled on a decentralized basis by heat and power generation and transmission and
distribution divisions of VDHC, the PMCG will be responsible for supervising the technical and administrative
aspects.
Procurement issues
Bank-funded procurement would be carried out in accordance with the World Bank's Guidelines for
Procurement (published Januaiy 1995, revised January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999).
All World Bank-funded procurement would follow intemational competitive bidding procedures, except that up
to US$300,000 could be in accordance with international shopping.
The Swedish Government and VDHC financed procurement would be carried out in accordance with their
respective procurement policies and procedures. The procurement arrangements, while the responsibility of the
borrower and co-financiers, were reviewed and found to be acceptable to the World Bank (see Section C, Part
4).
Financial management issues
The status of borrower's compliance with audit requirements. VDHC was audited in 1998 by Arthur
Andersen and for 1998/2000 by PricewaterhouseCoopers, both of which gave unqualified audit opinions.
Particular attention was paid to the LTL 31 million claim raised by SP AB Vilniaus Vandenys (the Municipal
water company) over the allocation of water losses. The outcome of the claim was uncertain and no provision
was made in the financial statements as at December 31, 1998. The audit review of the first six months of 1999
included information to the effect that the claim made by SP AB Vilniaus Vandenys was upheld by the Vilnius
Circuit Court and The Appeal Court. The judgment amounted to LTL 14 ml (USD 3.5 ml) and was included in
the profit and loss account. Additionally according to the law on compensation to heating companies for the
losses incurred in 1997 due to insufficient heat tariffs and doubtful receivables VDHC was entitled to receive
LTL 11.8 ml (about USD 3 ml) subsidy. As there is no confirmation from Ministry of Finance when it will be
received, VDHC has not booked this amount as income in the profit and loss account for that period. During
VDHC's shareholders meeting of June 29, 2001, PricewaterhouseCoopers was selected as the auditor for
FY2002.
5.    Environmental
Environmental Category: B (Partial Assessment)
The project is in full compliance with all environmental requirements of the Government of Lithuania, Vilnius
Municipality, World Bank policies and procedures (OP/BP/GP 4.01: Environmental Assessment), appropriate
EU Directives concerning the environmental performance of boilers, and the Govemment of Lithuania's
international commitments under the Montreal Protocol concerning Depletion of the Ozone Layer.
In accordance with World Bank policies the project has been rated "Category B". An Environmental
Management Plan (EMP) has been prepared, acceptable to the Borrower and the Bank, for CHPs, HOBs,
Substations and the Distribution Network (see Annex 12).
Overall efficiency improvements to be realized by the project will result in reduced fuel use and reduced
pollutant emissions over the project life (through 2015) as indicated below:
31



Pollutant (tons)             Tons of Emission Reduction by Project Component
CHP               HoB               Network           Substation
Carbon Dioxide        533,000            14,800            291,000           1,172,000
Sulfur Dioxide          60                130                120               460
Nitrogen Oxides       10,900               24                450               1800
Project Location
The project would focus on a large number of boilers, one combined heat and power plant, heat transfer stations
and pipelines distributed throughout the municipality of Vilnius. Major boilers (VE-2, VE-3, Boiler House
Number 8) are from 5 to 10 km outside the city center.
Major Environmental Issues
There are no major environmental issues associated with the project. On the contrary, the Project will improve
air pollution levels by reducing energy consumption and, hence, burning of fuels.
Other Environmental Issues
Minor environmental issues associated with construction activities include dust and noise associated with the
movement of men, machines, and materials and with solid waste management. Asbestos insulation is present in
all components which are to be replaced under the project. At the CHP facilities, there is a possibility that
transformer coolants may be present and that they contain unacceptable levels of PCB. Preinsulated
replacement pipes might be manufactured with CFCs or HCFCs. During operation, minor issues include
atmospheric emissions of CO2, NOx, and S02. As presented above, efficiencies realized by project
implementation will reduce all these emission levels compared to current values. Spills and leakage is possible
during transfer of fuel oil and from the hot water circuits.
Proposed Actions
Construction activities will be conducted during daytime hours and planned in a manner to minimize disruption
to existing population activity patterns. Dusty areas will be sprinkled with water. Asbestos will be removed and
transported by companies/units duly licensed to perform this work, and disposed of in an appropriate manner at
sites officially approved by the Government to receive such material. If transformer oils are present, they will
be tested for PCBs and, if contaminated, they will be disposed of in accordance with Lithuanian standards.
Preinsulated replacement pipes will have foam insulation prepared with either carbon dioxide or cyclopentane
foaming agents. Bid documents will be required to include this specification. Low NOx burners and lower
sulfur fuel oils will be used to assure that S02/NOx emission levels will comply with Lithuanian standards,
World Bank Guidelines, and EU Directives. Proper housekeeping measures will be instituted to minimize
occurrence of leaks and subsequent contamination of soil and groundwater.
The main features of the EMP address the construction phase of the project. Issues include dust, noise, and
proper disposal of non hazardous wastes. The EMP includes testing for hazardous materials (PCBs) and, if
found in levels exceeding standards, appropriate measures for management are to be taken. During operation,
there are minor issues associated with emissions of SO2, NOx and C02, and leaks/spills of water or fuel oil.
These aspects are the appropriate ones to be considered under the project. Their proposed management seems
reasonable and entirely adequate.
A final draft of the EMP was submitted by the Borrower on May 22, 2000. The summary of public
consultations as described under Section 5.1 (Public Consultation) was issued in June 2000.
32



A household survey (see Public Consultation discussion above) was undertaken in the early stages of project
preparation (May 1999) for use in project design. The project design was based on the results of the Social
Assessment (included in the Project Implementation Plan), taking into account the primary concerns of the
consumers (largely cost and reliability of supply). Environmental issues are limited as the project is confined to
repairing and upgrading existing assets. The key features of environmental protection and mitigation were taken
into account in project design (particularly with regard to decreasing air pollution impact by improving boiler
and burner efficiency). After the draft feasibility study was completed a meeting was held on May 25, 2000
with NGOs to present the findings and to address their concerns. As a direct result of this meeting, it has been
decided.that a demonstration project would be implemented as soon as possible with SIDA funding to
demonstrate the expected benefits of the substation component of the project.
The EMP (see Annex 12) meets World Bank requirements as specified in OP 4.01 Annex C. As such, it
includes: (a) a mitigation plan, (b) a monitoring plan, (c) institutional strengthening, (d) schedule, (e)
institutional arrangements for environmental management, and (f) a summary of the results of public
consultation and affected groups. The monitoring plan has been designed in a manner consistent with the
mitigation plan. Issues which are to be mitigated during construction include dust, noise, and materials disposal
(hazardous and non hazardous) and issues to be mitigated during operation include emissions of SO2, NOx,
water leaks, and fuel oil spills. The monitoring plan addresses all these issues. During construction, monitoring
is the responsibility of the Chief of VDHC's Construction Department and during operation, it is the
responsibility of the Chief of the Technical Production Department. Monitoring results are normally reviewed
and analyzed monthly by the Production Department. If the data indicate abnormalities, a report is sent to the
Chief of the Technical Department. Any necessary actions are the responsibility of the Technical Director.
6.     Social
Low income households are protected from the impact of heat supply costs that exceed 20% of household
income through targeted subsidies from the Municipality. The safety net is under review as part of the Bank's
Structural Adjustment Loan, but is generally considered to be satisfactory. The project is designed to assist the
poor by reducing the cost of heat supply in the longer term and improve the quality of service. The benefits will
accrue to a greater extent to the poor as the wealthier segments of the population have been able to afford
alternative (more expensive but currently more convenient) forms of heat.
A survey was undertaken by VDHC to help design the project based on their customers' views. The project is
designed to decrease the cost of supply which will benefit all groups but particularly the poor as heating absorbs
a disproportionate component of their household income.
VDHC has introduced the project to the public through television interviews, newspaper and magazine articles.
VDHC has also prepared a project description and made it available in public locations. They have invited
public comment and will take their views into account in project design.
A meeting with NGOs took place on May 25, 2000 based on a project description that was circulated to them
earlier. Their overwhelming concern was the cost of district heat. In addition they expressed concerns that
those who take the risks associated with new substations should also benefit from this through cost reductions.
During the discussions with the NGOs, it became clear that the communication program that had already been
implemented had not reached a broad enough audience and needed to be refocused. As a result, two efforts
have been undertaken: a revised information campaign and a pilot scheme which includes information
dissemination as a component.
The primary social objectives that need to be addressed are cost reductions and improved service. Both of these
elements are distinct objectives of the project that will be monitored on a quarterly basis. The new Management
Information System to be installed under the Project would monitor key indicators (such as primary cost
elements -- fuel, staff costs, maintenance costs, etc.) and customer complaints. The management of VDHC had
33



established Working Groups within the company to address these specific issues both as a part of project
preparation and project implementation.
Monitoring indicators were designed to address the key social assessment concems. VDHC will be asked to
report on these on a quarterly basis as part of the project design. The Management Information System would
enable them to monitor and report on this aspect efficiently.
7.    Safeguard Policies
Policy                                    Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)                   Yes
Natural habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                           No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                            No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                              No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                          No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                           No
Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)                                     No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                                      No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)           No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)                 No
An environmental mitigation plan has been established and agreed with the management of VDHC. Key
elements of this plan (largely the proper disposal of wastes) will be monitored during project supervision.
F. SUSTAINABILITY AND RISKS
1.    Sustainability
The borrower is committed to implementing this project as it will enable it to improve the quality of supply and
reduce costs. Without the project, the viability of the company appears to be in serious jeopardy. The owner
(the Municipality) is also supportive of the project as it would decrease the subsidies to low income households
by keeping heating costs down. The Project would also increase the value of the company and hence increase
the revenues accruing to the Municipality from private sector participation.
The project is also designed to assist VDHC to remain financially viable during the critical three-four year
period when its debt service obligations are unusually high. Once past this period, VDHC is expected to be able
to access debt and equity markets for future funding needs. No Government funding is envisaged either during
project implementation or afterwards, assuming that some debt repayments to the Government are rescheduled.
Price setting rests with the Energy Pricing Commission, an independent regulatory body. The depoliticization
of price adjustments has reduced the risk to the financial sustainability of the project and of VDHC. EPC has
fulfilled its role in a professional manner. The project also supports a reduced role of the Municipality in price
adjustments by depoliticizing the membership of the Board, thus focusing the role of the Municipality on policy
and strategic issues.
The long-term sustainability of the substation replacement and demand side management programs would be
ensured through the creation of an Energy Conservation Fund ($7.5 million) that would operate on a revolving
fund basis. The HOA would be asked to sign a contract with the VDHC for the supply and installation of the
substation, thereby accepting responsibility for repaying the cost of the substation according to a specified
schedule. The repayments from the homeowners will be channeled to the Energy Conservation Fund to ensure
its long-term financial sustainability.
34



With some $2.5 million allocated from the ECP for apartment-level DSM measures, VDHC would be able to
stimulate the customer buy-in to the substation replacement program by offering apartment-level improvements
to those homeowners who sign up for the substation replacement, offering a 50% exemption rate during the first
year or two. The homeowner will be asked to choose from a list of measures such as the installation of
thermostatic valves, apartment-level heat meters, replacement of windows, etc. The size of the exemption is
expected to change over time, contingent on the market response to the substation program and adjusted
depending on the achievement of the intended penetration rates. The most desirable scenario is that, starting
from year 2 or 3, the high exemption rates for the apartment-level improvements would be discontinued as the
measure would have fulfilled its function of expanding the penetration rate of the substation replacements. As
the new substations would enable the customer-controlled heat supply, it is expected that demand for further
DSM measures in residential buildings would be generated. This is expected to "push" the market early on and
then allow a transition to a commercial market as both the technical possibility and the incentives would be in
place for both the homeowners and emerging ESCOs to implement further energy saving investments in
buildings equipped with modem building-level substations.
The remaining $2.5 million of the proposed GEF contribution would serve to strengthen the VDHC's ability to
implement marketing, public outreach, research, monitoring and other similar activities. The capacity built in the
process will contribute to the company's financial viability as it will have a stronger customer base contributing
to revenue growth in the long run.
2.     Critical Risks
(reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1)
Risk                     Risk Rating             Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Government's commitment to reforms and         M        EU Accession has motivated the Government to pursue
implementing its National Energy Strategy in           reforms aggressively. The Seimas passed a law in May
particular, declines. Closure of the Ignalina           2000, committing it to close Ignalina Unit I by 2005.
Nuclear unit is of particular significance to this
project.
Unfavorable economic developments constrain    M        Prior to the economic collapse in Russia in August
demand for heat and erode household income,             1998, economic growth was strong. Growth in exports
further impairing company's efficiency and             to Western Europe since then has helped refocus
reducing affordability of DH to consumers.              economic development.
Political and social pressures may make price  M        The independence of EPC helps mitigate this risk, as
adjustments difficult.                                  does the fact that competitors to district heating face
the same fuel mnarket conditions.
Increased fuel prices increase the price of heat,  M    Other network fuels should face the same problem. In
decreasing the market due to price elasticity of        addition, the fuel switching capability of the CHP and
demand.                                                 boilers reduces the problem.
From Components to Outputs
Inadequate regulatory capacity of the Energy    S       To date, this has not been a problem, but it must be
Pricing Commission and the Supervisory Board            monitored during project implementation.
of VDHC impair the company's financial
performance.
35



Expected project co-financing does not          M       Clear Government and Municipal support prior has
materialize or is delayed. Parliament delays            been established throughout project processing.
loan ratification (issuance of a sovereign
guarantee) and consequently loan effectiveness
as well.
Implementation delays due to inexperience with  M       Engagement of consultants with relevant experience to
project imnplementation.                                support VDHC staff. Maintaining the VDHC Project
staffing levels must be monitored. The twinning
arrangement with Helsinki Energy is also expected to
help.
Equipment proposed to be selected may not be    N       Review of proposals by the consultant and Bank staff
optimal due to problems during the bidding              with relevant experience minimize this risk.
process.
The Municipality initiates private sector       M       The Vilnius Municipality has engaged advisors to
participation in a transparent manner and with          guide this task and announced its intentions publicly
adequate preparation.                                   July 2, 2001.
VDHC is unable to retain and ensure adequate   M        Improved financial viability would enable VDHC to
management capacity.                                    attract qualified staff.
Heat demand declines due to more switching to   S       This issue must be closely monitored during project
individual boilers than expected and/or warmer          implementation to ensure that project and equipment
winters.                                                sizing is appropriate.
VDHC continues to operate in a supply-driven    M       The component of the project dealing with the
mode (e.g., is unwilling to allow the home-             strengthening of VDHC's marketing skills and
owners exercise their option to reduce the level        customer orientation will mitigate this risk.
of heat received).
Overall Risk Rating                            M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
2a.    Risks and uncertainties specific to the determination of the need for GEF resources to meet the
Global Objective
The tables below illustrate the contingency events that can be linked to the decision to resort to ECP
funds for the substations and DSM component of the project. The tables below can also be used as a
framework for surveys and corrective measures in the process of project implementation.
1. Buildings currently served by block substations
Trigger event/contingency                    Yes                                     No
Implications for demand for GEF funding through ECP
The City Council approves     No need for additional             Need for additional inducements (such
the differentiated billing    inducements (such as GEF-          as GEF-supported DSM measures in
policy based on the type of    supported DSM measures in         apartments, etc.) for customers to
substation                    apartments, etc.) for              demand BLS
customers to demand BLS
VDHC proceeds with installing    No need for GEF funds to assist in the Need for GEF funds to share the substation
BLS once the differentiated   substation installation (all financing   installation cost with VDHC (e.g., 30% GEF, 70%
billing policy is introduced  for the substations coming from the    VDHC)
36



SIDA loan/domestic sources)
With BLS installed, homeowners  No need to explain the benefits of  Need for Homeowners' Outreach Consultants
have the physical possibility,  energy conservation measures to   funded under the ECP program to explain the
sufficient knowledge and       homeowners                         benefits of energy conservation measures and
economic incentives to use the                                   technical possibilities for regulating heat with BLS
BLS to regulate the heat level                                    to homeowners
according to their comfort needs
Demand exists for DSM measures No need for assistance with        Need for partial financing of apartment-level DSM
beyond the control of heat at the   apartment-level DSM measures  (e.g., 50% GEF, 50% homeowners)
building level through BLS (e.g.,
apartmnent-level DSM).
2. Buildings currently served by old-type BLS with no temperature control
Trigger event/contingency                  Yes                                      No
Implications for demand for GEF funding through ECP
The City Council approves      Possible need for additional       No need for additional inducements
the differentiated billing     inducements (such as GEF-          (such as GEF-supported DSM measures
policy based on the type of    supported DSM measures in         in apartments, etc.) for customers to
substation                     apartments, etc.) for customers    demand BLS upgrades
to demand BLS upgrades
VDHC upgrades the BLS to       No need for GEF funds to cover any   Need for GEF funds to share the substation
modem BLS with temperature     of the BLS upgrade cost as VDHC    installation cost with the homeowners (e.g., 30%
control once the differentiated  would have funded the upgrades itself GEF, 70% homeowners)
billing policy is introduced (Note: (e.g., through the SIDA loan) or,
the probability of this event is  possibly, the homeowners themselves
very low).                     would invest in the substation
upgrade
With modern BLS installed,     No need to explain the benefits of  Need for Homeowners' Outreach Consultants
homeowners have the physical    energy conservation measures to   funded under the ECP program to explain the
possibility, sufficient knowledge   homeowners                    benefits of energy conservation measures and
and economic incentives to use                                    technical possibilities for regulating heat with BLS
the BLS to regulate the heat level                               to homeowners
according to their comfort needs
Demand exists for DSM measures No need for assistance with        Need for partial financing of apartment-level DSM
going beyond the control of heat  apartment-level DSM measures    (e.g., 50% GEF, 50% homeowners)
at the building level through BLS
(e.g., apartnent-level DSM).
If the contingency events described in the two tables above materialize, producing the impacts described in the
"Yes" column, there will be limited demand for funding from the ECP as the global objectives of the project
would be met through the application of domestic actions and resources.
If the contingency events do not materialize, and the impacts from the "No" column prevail, there will be much
more need for GEF funding - all the estimated $7.5 million from the ECP would likely be needed.
Note.: The first row in each of the two tables above refers to the proposed decision by the Vilnius City Council to
change the billing practices - effectively, introducing a new tariff policy. Under this policy, the Municipality has set
37



the stage for VDHC's replacement of block substations with BLS by approving a 5% discount on the tariff to those
households whose hot water is prepared inside the building (which is the case only when the building has a BLS).
Simultaneously, it is proposed that the billing practices (effectively, the tariff structure) for those buildings without
BLS (which receive their hot water from block substations) would be changed to introduce heat billing based on the
estimated full cost of heat supply, including the estimated costs of domestic hot water (DHW) preparation currently
unaccounted for. This would likely mean a net increase in the heating bill for about 60% of the DH customers (i.e., all
customers currently served from block substations). With the introduction of BLS, the heat bill will be based on the
full cost of heat supply incorporating the metered data on the amount of heat used for DHW preparation. At that point,
the heat bill for these customers is not expected to change significantly (i.e., would remain high), unless DSM
measures are implemented. The decree has been passed, leaving successful implementation as the remaining risk.
3.     Possible Controversial Aspects
During the pre-appraisal mission, the Vilnius Municipality had changed staff both at the advisory level (to the
Mayor) and at the working level. Attitudes to the proposed World Bank loan appeared to have shifted in favor
of private sector participation. Based on this, the Municipality undertook an assessment of its options, guided
by a report from Swedish consultants initiated by the Bank and, subsequently, local consultants were engaged by
the Municipality. The Swedish consultants made a presentation to many of the staff in the Municipality at a
meeting attended by both Bank and EBRD staff. Typically, it takes two to three years to complete the proposed
leasing agreement. Delays could affect project efficiency. The effectiveness of the selection process and
subsequent implementation is a risk that must be carefully managed as the proposed leasing approach is unique
to Bank-funded district heating projects.
G. MAIN LOAN CONDITIONS
1.     Effectiveness Conditions
The following events are specified as additional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement:
(a) The Subsidiary Agreement between the Guarantor and the Municipality of Vilnius should be executed.
(b) A satisfactory Action Plan should be developed by the Vilnius Municipality to reduce the accounts
payable of the Municipality and Municipally owned entities to the Vilnius District Heating Company.
(c) All conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the SIDA cofinancing would be fulfilled.
2.     Other
Agreement was reached on the following items:
(a) Key outcome-level performance indicators to be used for evaluation of the efficiency of Project
implementation and the achievement of Project objectives (see Section A.2, page 5);
(b) The Environmental Management Plan should be carried out in a timely manner (see Section E.5, page
33);
(c) VDHC must take steps to strengthen its financial management system as outlined in Appendix 5 (see
Section C.4, page 17);
(d) VDHC must submit a study by April 1, 2003, regarding multi-part tariff designed to create incentives
for economy in the use of fuel while protecting the company's revenue base and implement the Action Plan,
taking into account Bank comments (see Section E.2, page 28);
(e) By November 1, 2001, the Borrower will submit a time-bound action plan designed to ensure that
receivables to all customers do not exceed 60 days sales equivalent by June 30, 2002 and that the plan
should be implemented starting January 1, 2003.(see Section E.2, page 28);
38



(f) VDHC should maintain a self-financing ratio of no less than 20%, starting July 1, 2001 (see Section E.2,
page 28);
(g) VDHC should maintain a debt service coverage ratio of not less than 1.2 starting July 1, 2002 (see
Section E.2, page 28);
(h) The Vilnius Municipality shall undertake a detailed assessment of alternative ways of increasing private
sector participation in the provision of heat (see Section E.4, page 29); and,
(i) The Municipality should establish a non-Executive Supervisory Board, with representatives from the
business, legal, consumer-focused, energy and financial communities (see Section E.4, page 30).
H. READINESS FOR IMPLEMENTATION
1. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of project
implementation.
2. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory quality.
I. COMPLIANCE WITH BANK POLICIES
This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
Gary Stuggins                    Henk Busz                      '" Michael Carter
Team Leader                       Sector Manager                    Country Manager
39






Annex 1: Project Design Summary
LITHUANIA: VILNIUS DISTRICT HEATING PROJECT
Key Performance
Hierarchy of Objectives               Indicators              Monitoring &         Critical Assumptions
Evaluation
Sector-related CAS Goal:      Sector Indicators:         Sector/ country         (from Goal to Bank
reports:               Mission)
Build capacity in local and   Increase profitability of  Corporate Annual        Strong macro-economic
municipal institutions        heating companies          Reports                 framework
Ensure access to basic services    Reduce the rate of    Auditors Reports        Changed attitudes toward
for the poor                  disconnection by customers                         customers
Decrease the negative fiscal  Decrease supply costs in   Quarterly Project       Reasonable primary energy
impact of heating subsidies on    real terms             Reports                 prices
the fiscal deficit
GEF Operational Program:
Reduce the emissions of GHG   GHG emission reductions    A reporting system      The barrier removal
from the Vilnius District Heating  relative to the baseline  would be established to   measures result in long-
System through a targeted effort  GHG emission abatement    monitor the fuel and  lasting impacts such as
to remove the existing barriers to  cost                 GHG emission            collaborative relationship
energy conservation (OP-5)    Fuel consumption by type    reductions achieved    between the VDHC and the
based on the marketing   HOAs; these results are
database of the VDHC;   acknowledged and
hiring an independent    promoted by the
contractor to develop the  Government and other
-monitoring system as    relevant stakeholders;
necessary; fuel        private sector interest to
consumption data from    energy efficiency
VDHC                   investments increases;
increased participation of
the private sector results in
a more competitive market
for products related to
energy efficiency which, in
tur, brings down the costs
and makes energy
efficiency (including DSM)
more economic.
Achieve indirect/downstream   Similar project emerging   The marketing           The publicity and
GHG emission reduction benefits  elsewhere in Lithuania and   department of VDHC in  demonstration impact from
due to demonstration effect   CEE                        cooperation with HUDF   the project are focused on
and other stakeholders   the potential benefits for a
private investor entering
the energy efficiency
market rather than on the
global externalities



Key Performance
Hierarchy of Objectives           Indicators         Monitoring & Evaluation      Critical Assumptions
Project Development         Outcome I Impact          Project reports:           (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                  Indicators:
Decrease the economic cost of  Using financial records,  Annual financial reports of    No major changes to unit
heat supply                impute an economic cost of  the company, supplemented   input costs (fuel, labor) and
supply                    by quarterly PIU reports with  no exceptional events
particular focus on changes in
fuel costs
Increase the profitability of  Annual review of the   Auditors Reports           Periodic price adjustments to
supplying heat from District   Income Statement expected                         enable full cost recovery
Heating networks           to show improving
profitability starting 2002
Increase the quality of supply   Decreased outages by 2%  Outage Statistics/Customer    Retain good managers
per annum starting 2003   Complaints, disconnection
rates.
Enabling temperature      Focus Groups               Improved market outreach.
control
Key Performance
Hierarchy of Objectives          Indicators          Monitoring & Evaluation      Critical Assumptions
Output from each           Output Indicators:         Project reports:          (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
Customer substations to    Energy use over time       Quarterly Reports on       Results are temperature
decrease energy consumption                           consumption                sensitive and a function of
income growth
Improved managerial controls  Management Information  Quarterly management       Quality of management to be
Systems and related       reports                    retained
analytical tools
Boiler replacement to reduce   Lower fuel consumption  Annual financial reports  Fuel use is temperature
fuel costs                                                                       dependent
Decrease operating costs of    Lower fuel consumption  Quarterly management      As fuel use is temperature
the CHP plant                                         reports                    dependent we assume no
unusual temperature
excursions



Key Performance
Hierarchy of Objectives         Indicators          Monitoring & Evaluation     Critical Assumptions
Project Components /      Inputs: (budget for each    Project reports:        (from Components to
Sub-components:           component)                                          Outputs)
Building-level sub-stations   $36 million: 240 (2001), 691  Quarterly Reports  Well-organized management of
with metering and        (2003), 877 (2003) and 368                           this task is required as it is
temperature control and   (2004) building-level                               logistically complex
apartment-level DSM       substations procured and
investments               mainly installed.
Heat Only Boilers         $3.4 million: Bidding docs    Quarterly Reports     Rehabilitation of existing
of RK 2, 6, 7 and 8 by July                         equipment often includes
2002 and rehabilitated by                           unforeseen technical problems
Fall 2003.
CHP Plant Rehabilitation  $18.9 million: By Fall 2002   Quarterly Reports     Rehabilitation of existing
air pre-heater implemented                          equipment often includes
and other Bid doc's ready.                          unforeseen technical problems
Main implementation by Fall
2003.
MIS Tools                 $0.5 million: MIS         Quarterly Reports         Maintain good quality staff
imnplemented by July 2002.                          through continued institutional
reforms
Study on separation of eight  $400,000              Periodic reviews          Active participation by staff in
small communities                                                             small commnunities
GEF-financed Energy       $7.5 million, of which $5  Semi-annual reports and  The lending/leasing fund
Conservation Fund (ECF)    million for building-level  mid-term review focusing on  operates in a financially
consisting of a           substations and $2.5 million  the question of financial  sustainable manner (low
lending/leasing fund and a    for apartment-level DSM  sustainability of the ECF and  default rate, sufficient rate of
subsidy fund              improvements             the level of co-fmancing   return on investments, ability
attracted                to attract co-financing)
The subsidy fund
management's ability to reduce
the subsidies to the level
necessary to support energy
efficiency investments for
lower-income households, with
the government gradually
taking over the subsidy inputs.
Marketing and Outreach for  $2.0 million (GEF grant)  Semi-annual reports     Effective cooperation between
the substation replacement                                                    VDHC and the entity
and upgrade program under                                                     implementing the Marketing
GEF barrier removal                                                           and Outreach component
rraining, Market Analysis,   $0.5 million (GEF grant)  Semi-annual reports    The ongoing corporate
and M&E under GEF barrier                                                     restructuring within VDHC
:emoval                                                                       results in adequate staffing for
market analysis






Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
LITHUANIA: VILNIUS DISTRICT HEATING PROJECT
DH/CHP System Description
The heat load density of Vilnius DH system is 5.8 MWh/m. This compares favorably with the average figure for
Swedish and Finnish networks of 3.6 MWh/m on average. The system is supplied by the CHP-2 and -3 plants
and five heat-only-boiler plants, all owned by the VDHC. Heat is transmitted in a 2-pipe network of 301 km
length, 13 km of which are modem preinsulated pipelines. Heat is distributed to adjacent buildings via 161
block substations, all owned by the VDHC, and 2,311 individual building substations, 85% of which are owned
by the municipality and the rest by others. The length of the 4-pipe system between the block substations and
buildings is 146 km and some 11 km of pipes, 2.4% out of the total length of 460 km, supply steam for industry.
In 2000, the CHPIDH system of Vilnius generated 770 GWh electric power and 2,848 GWh district heat.
The principal scheme of the DH/CHP system of Vilnius is presented below.
,1 Cintinterface
Production  Individual building
.substation
Transmission net work, two pipes
Production                         
piant    *                                         X
Block substation
[ istnbution net work, four pipes
|Space heating and ventilation
Domestic hot water
All buildings are equipped with heat meters, 5,940 in total, and the customers are invoiced according to meter
readings. The heat transmission network is in a relatively reasonable shape and does not need immediate actions,
whereas the distribution pipes are in poor condition requiring either elimination or replacement. The consumers
have no means to regulate their heat consumption since it is regulated centrally by the heat sources. Due to the
unbalanced nature of the network system, some customers obtain excess heat and the others insufficient heating.
The substation rehabilitation program will address this problem. The CHP-3 plant, the main heat source, is about
13 years old but poorly automated with outdated technology.
By Component:
Project Component 1 - US$36.17 million
L.A. Substations and Pipes Sub-component, the major part of Component 1, includes elimination of most of
the remaining 161 block substations (group substations) and installing about 2,178 building-level individual
substations that are automated to reduce energy consumption and to convert the entire system from a supply to a
demand driven operation mode.
The substation balance of Vilnius is presented in Table I below.



Table 1. Substation data, central network.
Type of connection                             Block substation     Individual building       Total
substation
Number of installations                              161                   2311
Average age of installation                          21                     21
Number of substations connected                     2513                   2311                4824
Approximate total floor area of connected buildings  8.4 million        3.1 million         11.5 million
(m2)
Installed capacity, MW total                        1.330                  1.322              2.652
(MW heat/ MW DHW)                                                                           (1197/973)
Heat and hot water sold, GWh (1998)                                                           2 485
VDHC's maintenance department does operation and maintenance of the block substations. The building
installations are currently operated and maintained by separate service companies, which do not belong to
VDHC. Most of the companies are 100 % owned by the Vilnius municipality and working by order of the owner
of the building and the household. The Municipality plans to privatize these companies.
Table 2. Actual number of existing substations in individual buildings of each type.
Installations in individual buildings                                        Type         Number of
installations
Direct space heating with ejector, ejector and pump or with motorized valve and  Al, Bl and Cl  2 217
direct domestic hot water
Closed space heating system with heat exchanger and direct domestic hot water  Di             33
Direct space heating with ejector, ejector and pump or with motorized valve and one  A2, B2 and C2  1 421
stage heat exchanger for domestic hot water
Direct space heating with ejector, ejector and pump or with motorized valve and two  A3, B3 and C3  595
stage heat exchanger for domestic hot water
Closed space heating system with heat exchanger and one stage heat exchanger for  D2         419
domestic hot water
Closed space heating system with heat exchanger and two stage heat exchanger for  D3         127
domestic hot water
Other installation                                                                            12
Total number of individual building installations                                           4 824
The average remaining lifetime of individual building substations cannot be estimated from the records of
VDHC, since these substations are not owned by VDHC but by the building owners.
With an average age of equipment of about 21 years, and an average total life span of about 25-30 years, the
average remaining life of the equipment would be about 4-9 years.
The problem with the substations is the lack of heat regulation, and in block substations in particular, poor
condition of underground installed domestic hot water pipes. Elimination of block substations has a higher ERR
than replacement of already existing individual substations, and is thus preferred in the investment plan.
The proposed Sub-component addresses the conversion of block substations to individual substations in
Category I (distribution pipelines installed in tunnels) and in Category 2 (pipelines installed in concrete ducts),
upgrade existing building-level in Category 3, and replace building level substations in Category 4 (where
supply for I to 4 buildings is linked as well as individual substations in each building). The numbers in Table 3
reflect the total number of individual building level substations (BLSs) to be installed.



Table 3. Individual building-level substations to be installed in each category.
Substation Category                                                   2001   2002  2003   2004
1. New BLS to buildings now connected to GS by tunnels               240   581   110    0
2. New BLS to buildings now connected to GS by concrete ducts         0      60    557    268
3. Upgrading the BLS connected directly to the mains                  0      0      100    0
4. Upgrading the BLS to buildings where a substation serves several buildings  0  50    110    100
Accrual                                                               240   691   877    368
Cumulative                                                            240   931    1,808  2,176
1.B. Apartment-level Demand Side Management Sub-component, the other part of Component 1, will be
organized by means of an Energy Conservation Fund that will finance part of the above substation rehabilitation
but also rehabilitation of buildings and apartments. Examples of such eligible investments are:
(a) modemization of the district heating system in buildings;
(b) installation of a dual pipe heating system;
(c) installation of heat meter;
(d) installation of hot water meters;
(e) installation of thermostatic radiator valves and heat cost allocators;
(f) wall insulation;
(g) window tightening, repairs or replacement;
(h) staircase window repairs and replacement
(i) new staircase entrance doors with door closers or repair of existing exterior doors;
(j) repair or replacement of leaking hot water pipes;
(k) hot water saving measures (e.g. pipes, showerheads, new taps);
(1) roof repair (only with insulation); and
(m) construction of pitched roofs with new insulation (but no interior construction for living space)
Project Component 2 - US$ 3.28 million
2. Heat-only-boiler Rehabilitation Component covers rehabilitation of three HOB's (RK2, RK6 and RK8)
with either new boilers or new bumers and pumps, heat exchangers and related equipment, depending on the
priorities in each particular case, to reduce fuel consumption, operating costs and emissions. RK2 will be
equipped with a new boiler including a Low-NOx burner units and auxiliary equipment. RK6 will be equipped
with a steam boiler of 6 to 8 MW capacity to supply the local industrial heat load. RK-7 will be equipped with
frequency controllers in the flue gas and inlet air fans of the steam boiler. RK-8 will be equipped with frequency
controllers in the flue gas and inlet air fans of the steam boiler and in the DH circulation pumps. RK8 is the
major heat source in the northem part of the city and will remain an important peak-load and back-up source,
where new frequency controlled pumping capacity at 15 m3/h is necessary in the new operation mode.
On the industrial area, however, elimination of the RK4 (A. Paneriai region) boiler plant of 192 MW capacity
was justified due to a collapse in demand. The remaining customers will arrange for altemative sources of heat
supply.
In 1999 and 2000, the HOB's produced 592 and 436 GWh respectively, 19% and 15% out of the total. In the
course of substation rehabilitation, the HOB's remain more and more peak-load sources.



Project Component 3 - US$18.96 million
3. Combined Heat and Power Plant Rehabilitation Component covers major rehabilitation of the block 1 of
CHP-3 with a new process control & instrumentation system to improve efficiency and reliability, twelve
environmental friendly low-Nox burner units adjusted both for mazut and gas firing to reduce emissions to meet
EU environmental requirements, an additional feed water pump unit to improve plant reliability, hydraulic and
lubrication system for the turbogenerator to improve reliability and controllability, frequency controlled district
heating pump to adjust the plant to demand driven variable water flow operation mode, and a modemized
regenerative air preheater to improve efficiency.
Block 2 of CHP-3 will be equipped with a hydraulic and lubrication system for the turbogenerator as well.
In addition, the CHP-2 will be equipped with a frequency controlled district heating pump to be adapted to
variable water flow as well.
The CHP-2 and CHP-3 plants will be interconnected with a 2 km gas pipeline that will considerably reduce gas
purchase costs. The pipe will be installed adjacent to an existing DH pipeline using an existing right-of-way. As
a result, no dislocation of residents or access to private property is envisaged.
At present CHP-3 consists of 2x 210 MWe condensing-extraction steam turbines that operate mainly in heating
mode. The CHP-2 operates as heat-only-boiler only, because the small steam turbines have become outdated. In
2000, both CHP plants generated electricity about 770 GWh and 2,412 GWh heat, 85% out of total heat energy
delivered to the network by the VDHC. The share of CHP production has been constantly increasing during the
past six years, and is expected to increase further when Ignalina Nuclear Units are shut down. The efficiency of
the CHP-3 plant is 76% whereas the modern plants of similar type reach annual efficiencies around 90%.
Project Component 4 - US$5.94million
4. Technical Assistance Component will include: Management information system implementation covering
billing and collections, financial management and customer database to enable up-to-date processing and prompt
information to management to enable cost control and monitoring of their customer satisfaction; Project
implementation management support to VDHC to assist in procurement, supervision and management of
implementation and during commissioning; Demonstration project where some selected substations will be
heavily instrumented and connected to intemet , thus enabling anybody to have real time follow-up experiences
from the substation functioning as a part of the public awareness campaign to be implemented and a system to
optimize combined heat and power production in VDHC to minimize fuel costs; twinning arrangements between
the VDHC and Helsinki Energy as both municipal District Heating companies are of similar type and size with
similar assets and issues including systems operation, financial management, customer and public relations,
safety, environmental and management practices; public marketing and outreach campaign to support the
Energy Conservation Fund be utilized by the heat customers; Training VDHC staff in marketing and public
relations; and advisory services for private sector participation in VDHC, as well as support for subsequent
changes.



Annex 3: Estimated Project Cost
LITHUANIA: VILNIUS DISTRICT HEATING PROJECT
Project Costs and Financing Table for 2001-2003 (+2004 for component A)
Project Costs By Component      Local    Foreign     Total
US $million US $million US $million
A. Substations and pipes         11.34     16.27      27.60
B. Apartment-level DSM           3.76       2.21      5.97
C. Heat-only-boilers             0.84       2.17      3.01
D. CHP Plant                     4.41      12.95      17.36
E. Technical Assistance          0.04       5.90      5.94
Total Baseline Costs             20.39     39.49      59.87
Physical Contingencies        0.62       1.80      2.42
Price Contingencies             -        2.05      2.05
Total Project Costs       21.01     43.34      64.35
Front-end Fee                     0.17       0.17
Total Financing Required  21.01     43.51      64.52
Project Cost By Category  US$ million US$ million  US$ million
Goods                                  37.44        37.44
Works                        12.20                  12.20
Services                                5.70        5.70
Training                     0.04       0.20        0.24
Taxes and Duties             8.76                   8.76
Total Project Costs       21.01      43.34       64.35
Front-end Fee                      0.17        0.17
Total Financing Required  21.01      43.51       64.52



The tables below show project costs on an annual basis separately for foreign, local and total costs. The last
table provides cost details for the technical assistance components.
TOTAL 2001-
Foreign                                                                     2001      2002    2003    2004           2004
1.A.Substations and pipes                                                              SIDA Loan & Energy Canservam iFund
1            Elim. of GS's with concrete ducts  931  units    1,317     3,189      604        -       5 109
2             Elim. of GS's with tunnels        885  units         -      340    3,057   1,471        4,868
3             Upgrading individual substations  100  units         -         -     549        -         549
4             Elim. of linked substations       260  units         -      295      604     549         1,447
5            Consumer in let pipes              55   km         464      1,604    1,519    705        4,292
Base costs                                                                  1,781    5,428   6,332   2,724        16,265
Physical cont                      5  %          95.49      291      339     146          872
Price cont.                       2.1  %/a         39       243      429     249          960
Total cost(wlo taxes and duties)                                            1,916    5,961    7,100   3,119       18,097
1.B.           Apartment-level DSM measures
Therm valves and cost allocrs in bidgs category 1
6            and 2                                              132       353      366     353        1,204
Therm valves and cost allocrs in bldgs category 3
7            and 4                                              132       128      265     265          789
8            Windows in bldgs category I and 2                   34        34       34      34          135
9            Windows in bidgs category 3 and 4                     -       23       34      23           79
Base costs                                                                   298       537      698     674        2,207
Physical cont.                     5  %            16        29       37      36          118
Price cont.                       2.1  %/a          7        24       47      62          139
Total cost(w/o taxes and dutes)                                              321       590     783      771        2,465
World Bank Loan
2.Heat-only-boilers
10            RK2:Boiler and boiler equipment    15   MW           -      274    1,096                 1,370
11            RK6:Steam boiler                   8    MW           -       128     192                   320
12            RK7:Frequency controllers                                    24       56                    80
13            RK8:DHpump(s) with freg. converter    15   m3/h              60      340                  400
Base costs                                                                      -      486    1,684                2,170
Physical cont.                     5  %              -       26       90                  116
Price cont.                       2.1  0/ola         -       22      114                  136
Total cost (w/o taxes and dubes)                                                -      534    1,888                2,422
World Bank Loan
3.CHP Plant
14            Low-Nox bumers,CHP3/block 1        12   sets                260    1,950      390        2,600
Lubrication and hydraulics, both
15            blocks                            1+1  sets                  210     610                   820
16            Regenerative air preheater, block 1  2   sets      160       640        -                  800
Instrumentaton & control system,
17            blockl                             1   units        75       600    2,470     780        3,925
18            Feed water pump, block I          2x2  sets                  200     700      200        1,100
19            Frequency control DH pumps, CHP3    4    sets                180     970      150        1,300
20            Frequency control DH pumps, CHP2    4   sets                 200     520      180          900
21            Gas pipeline from CHP3 to CHP2     2    km         100     1,100                         1,200
22            Soot blowers, CHP3                  1    set        50       250                           300
Base costs                                                                   385     3,640    7,220    1,700       12,945
Physical cont.                                     21       195      387       91         694



TOTAL 2001-
Foreign                                                                  2001      2002    2003    2004         2004
Price cont.                                       9       163     489     155          816
Total cost(w/o taxes and duties)                                          414    3,998   8,096   1,946        14,455
Summary of foreign costs
Base cost, foreign                                                       2,465   10,091  15,934   5,098       33,587
Physical cont.                   5  %           132       541     854     273        1,800
Price cont.                      2.1  %/a        55       451   1,080     466        2,051
Total, foreign                                                           2,651    11,083  17,868   5,837      37,439



TOTAL2001
Local                                                                           2001   2002   2003  2004       -2004
1.A. Substations and pipes                                                                        VDHC & Customems
1              Elim. of GSs with concrete ducts  931    units     618  1,497    283      -      2,398
2               Elim. of GSs with tunnels        885    units        -    155  1,435   690      2,280
3              Upgrading individual substations  100    units       -       -   271      -        271
4               Elim. of linked substations      260    units        -    136   299   258         692
5              Consumer inlet pipes              55      km       116    401    380   176       1,073
Base costs, local                                                                734  2,188  2,668 1,124       6,715
Physical cont.                                     39    117    143    60         360
Total cost (w/o taxes and duties)                                                774  2,305  2,811  1,184      7,075
Taxes                                             484  1,488  1,784   775       4,531
Customs Duties                                     10      30    36    16          90
Total cost (with taxes and duties)                                             1,267  3,823  4,631  1,975     11,696
1. B. Apartment-level DSM measures
6              Therm valves and cost allocrs in bldgs category 1 and 2  57    151    157   151   516
7              Therm valves and cost allocrs in bldgs category 3 and 4  57  55    113   113       338
8              Windows in bidgs category 1 and 2                  304    304    304   304       1,215
9              Windows in bldgs category 3 and 4                    -   203    304   203          709
Base costs                                                                       417    712   878   771        2,778
Physical cont.                                  22.36     38    47    41          149
Total cost (w/o taxes and duties)                                                440    750    925   812       2,927
Taxes                                             137    241    307   285         971
Customs Duties                                      2       3      4     4         12
Total cost (with taxes and duties)                                               578    995  1,236 1,101       3,910
2. Heat-only-boilers                                                                                          VDHC
10              RK2: Boiler and boiler equipment      15  MW         -    44       175            219
11              RK 6: Steam boiler                    8   MW         -     16      24              40
12              RK 7: Frequency controllers                          -      8       18             25
13              RK 8: DH pump(s) with freg. converter  15  m3/h      -      6      36              42
Base costs, local                                                                  -     74      253            326
Physical cont.                                       -      4      14              17
Total cost (w(o taxes and duties)                                                  -    78       266             344
Taxes                                                -    110     388             498
Customs Duties                                       -      3       9              12
Total cost (with taxes and duties)                                                      190      663             854
3. CHP Plant                                                                                                  VDHC
14              Low-Nox burners, CHP 3/block 1        12  sets     20    180       -              200
15              Lubricabon and hydraulics, both blocks  1+1  sets  28    280    252               560
16              Regenerative air preheater, block 1   2   sets     40    160       -              200
17              Instrumentation & control system, block 1    1   sets    120    480  -            600
18              Feed water pump, block 1             2x2  sets      20     80      -              100
19              Frequency control DH pumps, CHP 3     4   sets       -      5     29               35
20              Frequency control DH pumps, CHP 2      4   sets      -      6     16               22
21              Gas pipeline from CHP 3 to CHP 2       2   sets      4     30       -               34
22              Soot blowers, CHP 3                    1  sets       4     10                       14
Base costs, local                                                                236  1,231    297      -      1,764



TOTAL2001
Local                                                                         2001   2002  2003  2004       -2004
Physical cont.                                    13     66    16                95
Total cost (w/o taxes and duties)                                              249  1,297   313             1,859
Taxes                                            119    953  1,514            2,586
Customs Duties                                     2     20    40                63
Total cost (with taxes and duties)                                             370  2,271  1,867            4,507
Summary Costs, local
Base cost, local                                                             1,387  4,205  4,095 1,895     11,583
Physical cont.                      5%            74    225   220   102         621
Total cost (w/o taxes and duties)                                             1,462  4,431  4,315 1,997    12,204
Taxes                                            740  2,792  3,993 1,060      8,585
Customs Duties                                    13     55    89    19         177
Total cost (with taxes and duties)                                           2,216  7,279  8,397 3,076     20,967



Total                                                               2001       2002       2003       2004TOTAL2001-
2004
1. A. Substations and pipes
1      Elim. of GS's vwith concrete ducts   931  units       1,935      4,685        887          -      7,508
2      Elim. of GS's with tunnels           885  units           -        495      4,492      2,161      7,148
3      Upgrading individual substations     100  units           -          -        820          -        820
4      Elim. of linked substations          260  units           -        430        902        806      2 139
5      Consumer inlet pipes                  55   km          580       2,005      1,898       881       5,365
Base cost, total                                                   2,516      7,616      9,000      3,849     22,980
Physical cont.                                         135        408        4B2        206       1,232
Price cont.                                             39        243        429        249        960
Total cost (w/o taxes and duties)                                  2,690      8,267      9,912      4,304     25,172
Taxes                                                  484       1,488      1,784       775       4,531
Customs Duties                                          10         30         36         16         90
Total cost (with taxes and duties)                                 3,184      9,784     11,731      5,094     29,793
1. B. Apartment-level DSM measures
6      Therm valves and cost allocrs in bidgs category 1 and 2  189      504        523        504       1,720
7      Therm valves and cost allocrs in bidgs category 3 and 4  189       183       378        378A      1,128
8      Windows in bldgs category 1 and 2                      338        338        338        338       1,350
9      Windows in bidgs category 3 and 4                         -       225        338        225        788
Base costs                                                          716       1,249      1,576      1,445      4,985
Physical cont.                                          38         67         84         77        267
Price cont.                                              7         24         47         62        139
Total cost (w/o taxes and duties)                                    760      1,340      1,708      1,583      5,392
Taxes                                                  137        241        307        285        971
Customs Duties                                           2          3          4          4         12
Total cost (with taxes and duties)                                   899      1,584      2,019      1,872      6,375
2. Heat-only-boilers
10     RK 2: Boiler and boiler equipment     15   MW             -        318      1,271                 1,589
11     RK6:Steamboiler                        8   MW             -        144        216                   360
12     RK 7: Frequency controllers                               -         32         74                   105
13     RK 8: DH pump(s) with freq. converter  15  m3/h           -         66        376                   442
Base cost, total                                                       -        560      1,937                 2,496
Physical cont.                                            -        30        104                   134
Price cont.                                               -        22        114                   136
Total cost (w/o taxes and duties)                                      -        611      2,155                 2,766
Taxes                                                     -       110        388                   498
Customs Duties                                            -         3          9                     12
Total cost (with taxes and duties)                                     -        724      2,552                 3,276
3. CHP Plant
14     Low-Nox bumers, CHP 3/block 1         12   sets          20        440       1,950       390       2,800
15     Lubrication and hydraulics, both blocks  1+1  sets       28        490        862           -      1,380
16     Regenerative air preheater, block 1    2   sets         200        800           -         -       1,000
17     Instrumentaton & control system, block 1    1   sets    195       1,080     2,470        780       4,525
18     Feed water pump, block 1              2x2  sets          20        280        700        200       1,200
19     Frequency control DH pumps, CHP 3      4   sets           -        185        999        150       1,335
20     Frequency control DH pumps, CHP 2      4   sets            -       206        536        180        922



Total                                                               2001       2002       2003       2004TOTAL2001-
2004
21     Gas pipeline from CHP 3 to CHP 2       2   sets         104       1,130          -          -      1,234
22     Soot blowers, CHP 3                    1   sets          54        260           -          -       314
Base cost, total                                                     621      4,871      7,517      1,700     14,709
Physical cont.                                          33        261        403         91        788
Price cont.                                              9        163        489        155        816
Total cost (w/o taxes and duties)                                    663      5,295      8,409       1,946    16,313
Taxes                                                   119        953      1,514          -      2,586
Customs Duties                                           2         20         40           -        63
Total cost (with taxes and duties)                                   784      6,268      9,963      1,946     18,962
E. Technical Assistance under WB Loan
Summary Cost, Total investments
Base cost, total                                                   3,852     14,296     20,029      6,993     45,170
Physical cont.                                         206        766       1,074       375       2,421
Price cont.                                             55        451       1,080       466       2,051
Total cost (wlo taxes and duties)                                  4,113     15,514     22,183      7,834     49,643
Taxes                                                  740       2,792      3,993      1,060      8,585
Customs Duties                                          13         55         89         19        177
Total cost (with taxes and duties)                                 4,867     18,361     26,265      8,913     58,406



Technical Assistance is scheduled as follows:
4. Technical Assistance                                                                                  TOTAL2001-
Source             2001        2002        2003       2004         2004
From Grant Financing:
4.1 MIS Implementation                     Sweden SIDA          350         150           -                     500
a. Billing and Collecting system                            200         100                                 300
b. Accounting system                                        150          50                                 200
4.2 Project Implementation Consulting      Sweden SIDA          350        700         350                    1,400
4.3 Demonstration Project                  Sweden SIDA          600        460         140                    1,200
a. Substation and DSM demonstration                         400         200                                 600
b. Monitoring and public awareness of 3a.                   150          70        100                      320
c. CHP production optimization system                        50         190         40                      280
4.4 Twinning Arrangements                  EU/Finland           100         130         10                     240
4.5 Market Analysis and Outreach           GEF                  600        600         600        200         2,000
4.6 Training for Market Analysis           GEF                  400         100                                500
From Loan Financing:
4.7 Auditing                               WB Loan                          50          50                     100
Total                                                      1,400      1,490        550                    5,940



Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
LITHUANIA: VILNIUS DISTRICT HEATING PROJECT
Overview. The Government of Lithuania has demonstrated a clear commitment to reforms in the energy
sector. An independent regulatory body has been established with highly qualified staff. Electricity
prices and gas prices were adjusted on January 1, 2000 to improve the financial viability in the sector and
to reduce cross-subsidies. As a part of market liberalization of the gas sector, Third Party Access to the
networks has been established, along with transmission and distribution prices. This has enabled large
customers to directly negotiate gas supply prices, reducing costs. Steps toward market liberalization in
electricity have also been introduced, culminating in a new Electricity Law passed in August 2000. This
law embraces the more liberal interpretation of EU Directives on electricity, opening new generation to
authorized companies and establishing a Third Party Access to the network. The law also proposes to
move regulation of electricity to one which is incentive-based. A Heating Law is also under preparation.
However, the difficult problems that have faced the energy sector over the recent past focus primarily on
three issues: (a) the impact of the economic collapse of the 1990s, resulting in large declines in markets,
over-capacity in the asset base and limited funding for maintenance of existing equipment; (b) problems
associated with the Mazeikiai Refinery, in terms of its low efficiency, product mix and difficulties
associated with privatization; and, (c) the impact of the closure of the Ignalina Nuclear Power Plant. The
economy was starting to recover when the Lithuania economy was caught by the impact of the collapse of
the Russian market in 1998. Of the three Baltic countries, Lithuania had a larger exposure as Russian
exports represented a considerable share of its total exports. Since then, exports have increased to
Western Europe and the economy appears to be recovering. However, many companies need to dig
themselves out of the problems associated with the last two years (through debt rescheduling and other
similar mechanisms).
The Ignalina Nuclear Power Plant has a substantial impact on the electricity sector as its total capacity
(2,600 MW) exceeds peak demand by roughly 40% (as it was originally designed to meet demand in the
Baltics and Belarus during the Soviet era). Similarly, the Elektrane Power Plant at 1,800 MW is nearly
equal in size to the total peak demand in the country. The Government has committed (through a law
passed by the Seimas) to close the first of two 1,300 MW Ignalina Units in 2005 and commit to
establishing a closing date for the second unit in 2004 (generally expected to be 2009). The availability
of the nuclear units is further complicated by a commitment with EBRD not to rechannel these units
which could accelerate closure as early as 2001 by some estimates. In addition the Nuclear Regulator has
stated that Ignalina Unit #2 would be closed if its Secondary Cooling System is not upgraded by 2003.
Hence, there is a credible scenario in which all 2,600 MW of nuclear capacity could be out of service by
2003.
Backup capacity for the nuclear plant would be, in theory, adequately covered by the existing Elektrane
Plant, the smaller Combined Heat and Power Plants around the country and the existing hydro and
pumped storage facilities. However, some of the units at the Elektrane Plant are old and considered to be
of poor reliability and expensive to run because of their low efficiency. In an emergency, Lithuania can
draw on its transmission links to neighboring countries. However, these opportunities are limited as well
as Latvia has a capacity deficit and the transmission links to Poland have negligible capacity, leaving
power plants in Russia or Estonia as the likely suppliers in an emergency.
The economic analysis reviewed the project from three perspectives: (a) least cost analysis; (b) economic
returns; and, (c) impact on the government; and (d) incremental cost analysis for the GEF-funded
components. The least cost analysis is of particular importance because of the competition with gas-fired



boilers in buildings. The District Heating Company is losing market share because of its high costs and
poor service. Thus, strategic decisions need to be addressed in areas where they have a competitive
advantage and have the possibility of upgrading their service and districts where an exit strategy is
prudent. The project scope is limited by some very real constraints: the inability of the federal or local
government to provide financial support because of their own fiscal problems; large short-term debt
obligations by the district heating company; and, the need to keep prices low. A risk analysis will be
undertaken to determine the key problems that the district heating company should focus on and a
mitigation plan.
[For projects with benefits that are measured in monetary terms]
Present Value of Flows               Fiscal Impact
Economnic Analysis    Financial       Taxes     Subsidies
Analysis I
Benefits(Million USD)           $55M           $61M         $14M              0
Costs (Million USD)             $39M           $44M             0             0
Net Benefits (Million           $17M           $17M         $14M              0
USD)
IRR (%)                          13%            12%
Least Cost Analysis. District heating options were considered relative to individual gas-fired boilers and
electricity-based heat supply. Generally, district heating is economically viable if the density of heat
demand is high (above 5 MWh per meter of pipe) and if waste heat from a power plant is used to meet
part of the supply. Vilnius has two CHP plants that can be used as a source of low cost heat, thus meeting
one of the criteria. Most of Vilnius meets the heat density criterion, but not all. The consultants
undertook an analysis of each of the 24 districts within Vilnius to assess which areas should be
maintained as market areas for district heat. Of the 24 districts, 15 met the criteria while the remaining
nine requiring a detailed analysis. Of these nine, one district (A. Paneriai) is proposed to be disconnected
from the centralized heat supply system. In three other districts, some design changes and limited
disconnection would make district heating supply economically viable. The remaining five districts
remain least cost due to their proximity to a transit pipe to neighboring districts.
Project Analysis. The economic analysis of the project focused on the retums that could be achieved
without including consumer surplus due to the sector's financial constraints outlined above. The binding
criterion on selecting project components is the financial return. Only components that have a real
financial return greater than 10% have been considered for the project because of the need to decrease the
cost of supply. All project components have an individual EIRR exceeding 11%, resulting in a total
project EIRR of 13% (excluding environmental benefits, 15% including environmental benefits).
I If the difference between the present value of financial and econormic flows is large and cannot be explained by
taxes and subsidies, a brief explanation of the difference is warranted, e.g. "The value of financial benefits is less
than that of economic benefits because of controls on electricity tariffs."



Summary of Benefits and Costs
The project benefits consist of the following: decreased fuel consumption from energy savings caused by
improved temperature control at consumer substations; decreased water losses as a result of new
substations; decreased electricity consumption by lowering pumping loads; decreased maintenance costs;
lower staffing requirements; and decreased emissions (including global emissions such as C02).
The replacement of block substations with building-level consumer substations is expected to have a
particularly high rate of return, consistent with the experience in Bank-funded projects in other countries.
The primary source of savings comes from the fundamental design change from a constant flow/variable
temperature design (as was the case in all of the Former Soviet Union) to a variable flow/constant
temperature design as is the norm in Western Europe. This design change enables heat losses to be
reduced during the partial load periods in the spring and fall. Furthermore, it also enables new markets to
develop by extending the season for those customers willing to pay for this service. Secondary benefits
come from decreased water losses inherent in this design. Water meters at the building level enable a
reduction in non-technical losses while piping improvements decrease the technical losses. Lower
electricity and maintenance costs have a minor impact on the benefits.
The base cost of the substation component is the highest of the three at $26 million (excluding
contingencies and VAT). The costs include about $18 million for 2,400 substations, 21 km of heat pipes
and 33 km of cold water pipes. The remaining $7 million is required for installation of equipment as this
is a labor-intensive task. However, it is expected that costs will remain reasonable as local contractors
should have the construction skills and are expected to be least cost.
The existing heat only boiler units are either beyond or approaching the end of their economic life. As the
quality of maintenance has been good, the life of the existing 24 year-old boilers can be extended by
roughly ten years with modest upgrading of the original equipment. Some of the older boilers, however,
will need to be replaced. The base cost of this component is estimated to be $3.4 million. The benefits
largely consist of fuel savings due to higher efficiencies and lower electricity consumption. Minor
benefits include decreased water losses, lower maintenance costs and decreased air pollution.
The upgrading of the CHP units is estimated to cost $18.9 million. Replacement of some of the
equipment is required as the existing equipment is past its effective life. Existing bumerswill be replaced
with low NOx burners to reduce fuel consumption and NOx emissions. The instrumentation and control
systems will be replaced to improve the quality of output, reduce maintenance costs and reduce fuel
consumption.
Main Assumptions
The main assumptions regarding the economic analysis are as follow: (a) gas prices of $75/MCM at the
border with transit fees of $15/MCM; (b) fuel oil prices based on oil prices of $24/barrel and the
requirement to switch to low sulfur fuel oil by 2005; (c) 95% of fuel is gas and 5% is fuel oil; (d)
electricity prices at the generator will start at $22/MWh and gradually increase to $28/MWh as Ignalina is
closed and transmission and distribution adds $15/MWh to the generation price; (e) the economic cost of
water for district heating is $1/m3; (f) labor costs are 1430 LTL per month; (g) no allowance for
consumer surplus is made. The other important assumption is that demand for district heat will continue
to decline, but the annual rate of decline will decrease from 4% in 2001 to less than 2% in 2005 and then
stabilize as the quality of supply improves, the costs decrease in real terms, and the average incomes
increase.



Sensitivity analysis / Switching values of critical items
Risk Analysis. The main uncertainties governing the success of the project revolve around the cost and
effectiveness of the equipment, the size of the heat and electricity markets, the quality of the management
and the willingness of the owner and regulator to maintain prices. The equipment proposed is standard
equipment that has been successfully utilized on many other bank-funded projects. Hence, the costs and
benefits are well-known, thus minimizing this risk. The project, however, would represent a considerable
increase over their current work load and will need to be closely monitored. Consulting assistance and
the proposed twinning arrangement will help address this potential problem.
The electricity market in Lithuania is dominated by the low cost Ignalina Nuclear Power Plant. It is
difficult for any competing plant to undercut its prices as its capital costs are artificially low. The
Govermment has committed to closing Unit I by 2005 and will announce the closure date for Unit 2 by
2004 (closure for Unit 2 is expected to be 2009). Furthermore, the Government is committed to closing
Unit I (under an agreement with the Nuclear Safety Account at EBRD) when gap closure takes place.
An independent assessment indicates that this may be as early 2001 making the upgrading of the Vilnius
CHP plant of critical importance. In addition, Ignalina Unit 2 is scheduled to be taken out of service for
safety upgrades for at least 12 months prior to 2003 (without these upgrades it may lose its license to
operate). As a result, there could be considerable upside potential for increased sales from the CHP plant.
The risk of decreased heat sales is difficult to mitigate in advance as disconnections are expected to stop
once the service improves and the price stabilizes as a result of the project. However, lessons learned
from the recently completed district heating projects in Poland indicate that it is reasonable to expect a
demand response once the district heating systems are upgraded. The risks associated with the substation
component are small as this component can be easily scaled back should the market drop faster than
forecast. The HoBs are a higher risk because of the lumpy nature of the investment. However, they
represent less than 10% of the total project cost, the potential impact of lower demand is expected to be
small. Should heat demand in any district drop below 4 MWh/m a detailed analysis of continuing district
heating to that district would be initiated.
The risk associated with price setting is limited as Lithuania has established an independent regulator who
controls prices based on agreed principles. Under this project, there are expected to be downward price
pressures by the nature of the project design and improvement in commercial management. Hence, the
need for further price increases is not expected to present a major risk for the project. However,
protection will be established in the way of financial covenants (debt service coverage and self-financing
ratio) to protect against this potential problem.



Annex 5: Financial Summary
LITHUANIA: VILNIUS DISTRICT HEATING PROJECT
VILNIUS DISTRICT HEATING COMPANY
KEY ASSUMPTIONS FOR FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS
ENERGYDEMAND, SUPPLYAAND
Heat smlks                                Projected sales in 2000 of 2300 GWh are estimated to fall in future years
because of energy-saving measures, but will be increased by consumers'
requirements for greater comfort and by expected new residential
construction in Vilnius. A disconnection rate of I% in 2000 is projected
to fall to zero in 2011. Net result is a virtual stabilization of sales volume
at about 2200 GWh.
;Electricity sales                        Sales of 800 to 900 GWh to LPC assumed to continue, governed by
CHP-3 electricity capacity of 360 MW and heat production patterns.
Heat prices                              No real increase in the 1999 price of LTL 108.8 per MWh assumed
during the forecast period: tariff changes to be in line with inflation only.
:E1lCPEXCe6ri c              .. ;. < . .;    --.1999 capacity payment of LTL 50,000 per MW assumed to be phased
out progressively by 2004. Energy price LTL 67 per MWh adjusted by
domestic inflation, plus additional adjustment 2000-2004 to compensate
for phasing out of capacity payment.
Stean sales               .Total revenue assumed to change in line with domestic prices.
Cld wate and system servicing sales       Cold water sales volume is projected to fall from 5.6 m. cu. m. in 2000 to
less than 0.2 mn. cu. m. after 2005, as a result of the project.
F- uel isage ..... ^ forheat              Gas usage assumed maximised in CHPs and boilers.
Fuel usage Xfr electricity                No HFO projected to be used in CHPs after 1999.
Natual gas pries                          Border price of $75 per 1000 cu.m. assumed to move in line with
international prices; transmission fees assumed to be reduced by 75%
post 2000 and to rise thereafter (with distribution fee) in line with
domestic inflation.
HFO prices                                2000 price of $85 per tonne assumed to move in line with foreign
inflation.
INCOME STATEMENT
Other income                              Projected to move with domestic prices.
Salaries and Wages                       Average salary per person employed is projected to increase by domestic
inflation, with no real change, and employee numbers are projected to
reduce gradually as a result of the investment programme and the
institutional strengthening programme.
Social Security                           31 % of salaries and wages .
3 Purchased power                         Requirements not met from CHP-3 production projected to be purchased
from LPC at 2000 tariff adjusted in line with domestic inflation.
-Water and wastewater                     Water usage projected to fall from 8.3 m.cu.m. in 2000 to 0.26 m.cu.m.
from 2005 as a result of the rehabilitation project. Water tariff projected
to rise with inflation.
Maintenance and repairs                   Expenditure of LTL 20 million in 2000 is base for projected expenditures
(heat production) post project implementagtion, with annual costs rising in
line with domestic prices. During implementation period (2001-2005),
expense will be sharply reduced as technical resources are devoted to the
project. Maintenance costs related to electricity production are projected
to rise in line with domestic prices.



raxos 4lbethanw VP tNit a                  Real estate and other taxes are projected to rise from their 2000 levels in
line with inflation. Non-refundable VAT is estimated as a proportion of
total VAT remitted on sales.
Eleetsity                 =-ci  Costs  S .i.\   ;. .Fuel and other operating costs projected on same basis as costs of heat
production. Maintenance costs to be unaffected during project
implementation.
Ot       ..       &     : Operating *E'xpense  To rise in line with domestic inflation.
Provisio for liability to Vlln.iu Water. i j. ,Following Court decision, assumed to be charged against income in 1999
and 2000.
Based on current collection rate of 95% for heat, rising to 96% by 2005.
Collection rate assumed for electricity sales assumed to continue at
l00%.
Dbeprciatio   '<XXAdDSJ S 7ffi000a'r ;90 S T;>50s2EQ Depreciation rate of 4.5% p.a. straight line assumed for existing fixed
assets, 4.2% for all additions from 1999.
ititerest on previous long4em loan s   \ Interest as per loan agreements for existing long-term debt.
Intereston loans: 1orR.eha~biliaioi~Proje~  2Rate of 7.5% p.a. assumed on new foreign borrowing for the (World
Bank) project.
Werest   4bt4ukLithuaninn sendes          vLocal component of World Bank rehabilitation project is assumed to be
*  =  -      t    i   financed by borrowing locally at an average rate of 1 1% p.a.
W*       m     g;       W    ,l        > borroilg Rate assumed is real Lithuanian short-term rate plus inflation.
Othfiaanc _ ineome                        8.5% interest assumed to be earned on surplus cash; other financial
j income is as 1999 adjusted by domestic inflation.
Sub-stations financed under the rehabilitation project will be passed over
t  to residents under a hire purchase arrangement, and will not enter the
fixed assets of VDHC.
Subsidy arrears due from Govemrnment taken into profitability in 2000.
Calculated at the prevailing rate of 24%.
These items are (respectively) the principal and interest elements of hire
s                     9_$-tM300: g purchase installments projected to be received from residents.
Borrowin8s~ RebabiEtMion1'r et4 0          Equal to each year's total of foreign investment costs for the project:
local costs are assumed to be met from VDHIC cash flows.
Borrowings, Other Projects                 Equal to the year's investments in other capital works (other than the
Rehabilitation Project).
Construction requirements-Rehabilitalion   Total annual costs charged to work-in-progress (foreign and local costs).
Project
Construtihon requireri       0 :ts-Other Ongoiz~g    Total cost of Vl)HC's capital investment programme other than the
Projects                                   Rehabilitation Project.
VAT har       d                            VAT is expected to be chargeable on project investments at the
prevailing rate of 18% and to be reclaimable one month after payment.
(9% customs duty, amounting to $54,000, will apply to the RK-4 Heat-
only-Boiler, and is capitalised.)
Debt service                        .      Includes interest and principal repayments on existing long-term debt,
-new debt taken out under the Rehabilitation Project, and new debt taken
out to finance VIDHC's other planned capital expenditure not related to
the Project.
Calculates intemal funds relative to total debt service (interest and
: d200:-  f;u:::'  00:ffi- :0,<u;  .0.;;  .E.s;.: principal).
Se -          to                           Calculates intemal funds relative to past, current and planned future
B: - ALa - Nfi00t : X  :: =000f?t;:;:-X::;00CE  capital investment comnitments.
t Fixed AseX               V                 :0ff0i: ;000  ts  . \ i; 9 00 \   .Assumed that investments each year are treated as work-in-progress that



year and become fixed assets the following year.
Sub-station hire phse  receivable        Total hire purchase instalments due over remaining life of hire purchase
agreements (net of current portion).
pinancial fixed assets                   Assumed unchanged.
Accounts receivable                      Gross accounts receivable less provision equivalent to amount
uncollected each year.
Advances                                 Move in line with inflation.
inventories                              200 days' usage of materials plus 1.5% of fixed assets.
Vuelstocii    . -:    ,   :    - .       Assumed unchanged.
Accounayab1toXStsjrplicts(Can~zactrs   -Assumed to change in proportion to changes in expenditure on fuel,
maintenance, water and electricity production.
Accounts payable to Vilius Water Company  Assumed to be repaid over four years 2000-2003.
Advances                                 Assumed to move in line with salaries and wages.
Other current labilitis   -              Assumed unchanged.
Curnt Ratio                              Calculates the ratio of current assets to current liabilities; a measure of
the short-run ability to pay debts.
DIbfEqJ Ratio                            Calculates the ratio of total long-term debt to total equity; a measure of
the relationship between borrowed funds and capital invested by
'BIT1ONS~OF                :             ;.     .. -shareholders and thus the degree of financial risk.
D)EFIRlliXp;FIACLL            c 
CQOVElNANT,AND`TARGETS
Se1f^Finaacing ......... '                        - . .Total intermal cash generated minus taxes, debt service and
changes in working capital, divided by the average of investments in the
current year, the previous year, and the following year.
Should be at least 20%/o.
Debt Serice (        aio                        Total internal cash generated divided by total annual debt service
(principal and interest).
Should be at least 1.5.
Net Accounts Receivable (days)                  Accumulated net heat accounts receivable divided by total heat
sales for the year multiplied by 365.
Should not exceed 45.






VILNIUS DISTRICT HEATING COMPANY
DISTRICT HEATING REHABILITATION PROJECT
KEY INPUT DATA AND ASSUMPTIONS FOR FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS
unit         1999    2000      2001      2002    2003    2004   2005  2006  2007
1. Macroeconomic
Domestic inflation                                                 %              3.3%    2.3%       2.0%     2.0%     2.2%     2.3%   2.2%  2.0%   1.9%
Domestic inflation index                                        1999=100          100.0   102.8      105.0   107.1    109.4   111.8 114.3 116.7 119.0
Foreign inflation                                                                 1.6%     1.6%    2.470%     2.6%     2.5%     2.5%  2.5%  2.5%  2.5%
Exchange rate LTLUUS$                                          LTU$               4.00     4.00      4.00     4.00     4.00     4.00  4.00  4.00  4.00
2. Financing
LIBOR rate                                                         %             6.76%    6.76%     6.76%    6.76%    6.76%    6.76% 6.76% 6.76% 6.76%
World Bank loan rate                                               %             5.02%    5.02%     5.02%    5.02%    5.02%    5.02% 5.02% 5.02% 5.02%
SIDA loan rate                                                     %             5.02%    5.02%     5.02%    5.02%    5.02%    5.02% 5.02% 5.02% 5.02%
Lithuanian long-term rate                                          %             b.50%    8.50%     8.50%    8.50%    8.50%    8.50% 8.50% 8.50% 8.50%
Lithuanian short-term rate                                         %            12.10%   12.10%    12.10%   12.10%   12.10%   12.10%12.10%12.10%12.10%
Lithuanian deposit rate                                            %             8.50%    8.50%     8.50%    8.50%    8.50%    8.50% 8.50% 8.50% 8.50%
3. Enerav prices (current prices)
Natural gas border price                                       US$/1000m3                  81.2       84.0    87.1     90.2    93.3  96.6 100.0 103.5
Natural gas delivery price                                     US$/1000m3                  10.8       11.0    11.2    11.5    11.7  12.0  12.2  12.5
Natural gas total price                                        US$/1000m3                  92.0       95.1     98.3   101.6   105.1  108.6 112.2 116.0
Natural gas total price                                        US$/MWh
Mazut (delivered)                                              US$/ton                     91.3       93.6    96.0    98.4    100.8 103.4  105.9 108.5
Mazut (delivered)                                               US$/MWh
Natural gas border price                                        LTLU1000m3                324.8      336.2   348.3   360.6   373.3 386.5 399.9 414.0
Natural gas delivery price                                      LTUl1OOOm3                 43.2       44.1    44.9    45.9    47.0  48.0  49.0  49.9
Natural gas total price                                         LTL11000m3                  368      380.2   393.2   406.6   420.3 434.5 448.9 463.9
Natural gas total price                                         LTUMWh
Mazut (delivered)                                               LTUton                    365.2      374.2   383.9   393.5   403.4 413.5 423.6 434.2
Mazut (delivered)                                               LTUMWh
4. Real orice escalators
Natural Gas
Border price                                                                                     1.0%     1.0%    1.0%     1.0%   1.0%   1.0%   1.0%
Delivery price                                                                                  0.0%     0.0%     0.0%     0.0%   0.0%   0.0%   0.0%
Mazut (delivered)                                                                                    0.0%     0.0%     0.0%     0.0%   0.0%   0.0%   0.0%
Electricity                                                                                          0.0%     0.0%     0.0%     0.0%   0.0%  0.0%   0.0%
Water                                                                                      0.0%      0.0%     0.0%     0.0%     0.0%  0.0%   0.0%   0.0%



5. Other Drices and Costs (nominal)
Electricity tariff (sales to LE)                              LTLUMW           50,000   50,000    40,000   30,000   20,000   10,000    0     0     0
Electricty tariff (sales to LE)                               LTLJMWh             67       67        73       79      85       92    99   101   103
Electricity tariff (purchases from LE)                        LTUMWh             166      189       193      197     201      206   210   215   219
Water tariff                                                  LTUm3              1.37     1.41      1.44    1.47     1.50     1.53  1.57  1.60  1.63
Sewage fee                                                    LTLUm3             1.26    1.30      1.32     1.35     1.38     1.41  1.44  1.47  1.50
6. Assets and Liabilities
Accounts receivable-heat                                      days               105      100        90       80      78       76    74    72    70
Accounts receivable-electricity                               days                60       60        45       45      45       45    45    45    45
Collection rate-heat                                          %                  95%     96%       97%      98%      99%      99%   99%   99%   99%
Collection rate-electricity                                   %                 100%    100%      100%    100%    100%    100%  100%  100%  100%
Inventories                                                   days                90      200       200      200     200      200   200   200   200
Accounts payable                                              days                60       60        60       60      60       60    60    60    60
7. Taxes
Profit tax rate                                                                                    24%      24%      24%      24%   24%   24%   24%



VILNIUS DISTRICT HEATING COMPANY
Financial Projections, 2001-2020
ACTUAL AND FORECAST INCOME STATEMENT (LTL '000)
Estimated    Forecast
1999     2000     2001     2002     2003      2004     2005      2006     2007
Heat Sales (GWh)                                                   2,324    2,296    2,220    2,131    2,061     2,032    2,007     1,974    1,974
Electricity Sales (GWh)                                             671       771      800      814      850       887      964    1,000    1,000
Indicated inflation-linked tariff (base 1999)(Litas/kWh)          0.1088   0.1118   0.1143   0.1165   0.1190   0.1217   0.1244   0.1270   0.1295
Predicted nominal heat tariff, January-June (Litas/kWh)           0.1088   0.1088   0.1088   0.1143   0.1165   0.1190   0.1217   0.1244   0.1270
Predicted nominal heat tariff, July-December (Litas/kWh)          0.1088   0.1088   0.1143   0.1165   0.1190   0.1217   0.1244   0.1270   0.1295
Predicted average nominal heat tariff for year (Litas/kWh) (excl. VAT)  0.1088   0.1088   0.1104   0.1149   0.1173   0.1198   0.1225   0.1252   0.1278
Average real heat tariff (Litas/kWh)(excl. VAT)                   0.1088   0.1058   0.1052   0.1073   0.1072   0.1071    0.1071   0.1072   0.1073
Average heat tariff (Litas/kWh) (incl. VAT)
Average electricity tariff (Litas/MWh)                                95       90       90       90       90        96      103       105      107
Foreign inflation (%)                                             1.61%    1.60%    2.47%    2.58%    2.52%    2.50%    2.50%    2.45%    2.50%
Dornestic inflation (%)                                           3.30%    2.30%    2.00%    2.00%    2.20%    2.30%    2.20%    2.00%    1.90%
Exchange rate (LTUUS$)                                              4.00     4.00     4.00     4.00      4.00     4.00      4.00     4.00     4.00
REVENUES
Heat sales                                                       270,652  268,429  244.038  244.877  241.669  243.460  245.825  247,157  252.235
Cold water and system servicing                                        0   14,333   14,970   15,021   14,82S   14,935   15,080        530      545
Electricity sales                                                 63,693   69,770   71,594   72,853   76.330   84,709   99,485  105,264  107,264
Total Revenues                                               334,345  352,532  330,602  332,752  332,823  343,103  360,390  352,951  360,044
OPERATING EXPENSES
Heat production expenses:                                        205,210  190,847  205,567  205,809   194,232  197,270  192,864   188,532  193,629
Fuel                                                         114,711   118,629  133,479  131,562  125,509  125,227  125,316  123,638  127,693
Electricity                                                    2,912    2,997    3,665    4,766    3,768    11,577   11,152   11,120   11,138
Water and sewerage                                            18,803   18,340   18,201   17,008   13,457    8,866    3,996        664      677
Materials                                                      3,269    2,921    3,134    3,197    3,267    3,342    3,416    3,484    3,550
Personnel                                                     31,625   29,556   29,552   29,540   29,013   28,612   28,920   29,173   29,728
Maintenance and repairs                                       22,674    8,884    7,615    7,767    7,938    8,121    8,299    8,465    8,626
Taxes other than profit taxes                                  11,216    9,520    9,921    11,069   11,280    11,524   11,766   11,988   12,217
Electricity production expenses:                                  51,270   59,719   59,433   64,969   68,199   72,841    80,039   83,735   86,134
Fuel                                                          28,020   42,418   43,885   49,327   52,430   56,925   63,988   67,577   69,839
Materials                                                        978    1,015    1,006    1,026    1,049    1.073    1,096    1,118    1,140
Personnel                                                      9,697    9,130    8,525    8,479    8,448    8,427    8,397    8,351       8,339



Repairs and maintenance                                         8,311    3,805    2,496    2,546    2,602    2,662      2,720    2,775    2,827
Taxes other than profit taxes                                   3,313    2,406    2,412    2,460    2,514    2,572      2,629    2,681    2,732
Other                                                            951      944    1,109    1,131    1,156      1, 183-   1,209    1,233    1,256
Other operatingexpenses                                           24,966   30,868    9,719    9,913   10,131   10,364    10,593   10,804   11,010
Rehabilitation Programme Revenue Expenditures                                         9,600    8,760    4,600      800         0         0        0
Provision for doubtful accounts receivable                         7,447    6,588    7,770    5,198    2,565    2,584    2,609    2,477    2,528
-Total Operating Expenses                                        288,893  288,022  292,089  294,649  279,728  283,860  286,105  285,549  293,301
Net Operating Income before depreciation and interest             45,452   64,510   38,513   38,102   53,096    59,243   74,285   67,403   66,743
Depreciation                                                      41,429   40,701   42,656   43,751   46,125   50,052   53,310   55,148   56,931
Net Operating Income before financial income and expense           4,023   23,809   -4,143    -5,648    6,970    9,191    20,976    12,254    9,812
Interest on borrowings                                             9,801    9,484    9,476    9,451    11,399   12,260    11,880   12,114   12,290
Grants                                                                                9,600    8,560    4,360      800         0         0
Other financial or extraordinary income or expense                 4,522    1,780        0         0        0         0        0         0        0
Net Operating Income before Tax                                    -1,256   16,105   -4,019   -6,539      -69   -2,270     9,096       141   -2,479
Profit Tax                                                             0   15,154        0         0        0         0        0        0         0
Net Operating Income after Tax                                    -1,256      951   -4,019   -6,539       -69   -2,270     9,096       141   -2,479



ACTUAL AND FORECAST SOURCES AND APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS STATEMENT (LTL '000)
Estimated    Forecast
1999   2000    2001     2002      2003     2004     2005      2006     2007  -
Internal Sources
Net Operating Income Before Interest& Fin. Income                  4,023  23,809   -4,143   -5,648    6,970    9,191   20,976   12,254    9,812
Depreciation                                                      41,429  40,701   42,656   43,751   46,125   50,052   53,310   55,148   56,931
Total Internal Sources                                           45,452  64,510   38,513   38,102   53,096   59,243   74,285   67,403   66,743
Borrowings
DH Rehab Project:
World Bank                                                                         1,651   18,129   39,940    7.784         0        0        0
SIDA                                                                               5,524   17,193   20,479    8,998         0        0        0
Other Projects                                                 11,734  23,473   16,180   18,175   17,616   17,207   17,216   20,185   28,482
Total Long-term Borrowings                                       11,734  23,473   23,354   53,498   78,035   33,989   17,216   20,185   28,482
GEF grants                                                                           3,422    9,018   11,060    6,575
Other Grants                                                        6,922            9,600    8,560    4,360      800         0        0        0
TOTAL SOURCES                                                    64,108  87,983   74,889  109,178  146,551   100,607   91,501   87,588   95,225
APPLICATIONS
Construction Requirements
DH Rehab Project                                                                   16,446   62,270   88,941    31,345   21,793   25,709        0
Other Projects                                                    37,135  28,671   16,180   18,175   17,616   17,207   17,216   20,185   28,482
Total Construction Projects                                      37,135  28,671   32,625   80,445  106,556   48,551    39,009   45,895   28,482
Transfers to Energy Conservation Fund (ECF):
For Sub-station replacement                                                      2,138    6,654    7,926    3,482
For Apartment-level Demand Side Energy-saving Measures                           1,284    2,363    3,134    3,093
Profit Tax                                                                 15,154       0         0        0        0         0        0        0
Debt Service
Interest                                                           9,801   9,484    9,476    9,451   11,399   12,260    11,880   12,114   12,290
Principal                                                         11,520  53,037   13,403   19,753   27,519   31,688   21,034   27,305   28,800
Total Debt Service                                               21,321  62,521   22,879   29,203   38,918   43,948   32,914   39,419   41,091
Increase (Decrease) in Working Capital                             -3,072 -22,369    4,504   -6,918   -1,103   -1,397      -242   -3,975       809
TOTAL APPLICATIONS                                              55,384  83,977   63,430 - -1i1,740.. 155,431  .. 97,678   71,681   81,339   70,381
Surplus Funds                                                       8,724   4,006   11,458   -2,571   -8,881     2,929   19,821    6,249   24,843
Opening Cash Balance                                               -5,185   3,539    7,545   19,004   16,433    7,552   10,482   30,302   36,551
Closing Cash Balance                                                3,539   7,545   19,004   16,433    7,552   10,482   30,302   36,551    61,394
Debt Service Coverage Ratio                                          2.13    1.03     1.68     1.30      1.36     1.35     2.26      1.71     1.62



Debt Service Coverage Ratio per Loan Agreement Section 4.03(a)                            2.05     1.29      1.43      2.11     2.15      1.88      1.68
Self-financing Ratio                                                    21%     74%       24%      22%       19%      26%       94%       85%       77%



ACTUAL AND FORECAST BALANCE SHEETS
(LTL '000)
Estimated    Forecast
1999    2000    2001      2002    2003      2004     2005     2006     2007
ASSETS
Fixed Assets
Gross Fixed Assets                                            442,239  473,362  493,778  526,403  606,849  713,405  761,956  800,965  846,860
Less: Accumulated Depreciation                                 59,883  100,584  143,240  186,991  233,116  283,168  336,478  391,626  448,557
Net Fixed Assets                                             382,356  372,778  350,538  339,412  373,733  430,236  425,478  409,339  398,302
Work-in-Progress                                               28,671   20,416   32,625   80,445  106,556   48,551   39,009   45,895   28,482
Total Fixed Assets                                             411,027  393,194  383,163  419,858  480,289  478,788  464,487  455,234  426,784
Substation Hire-Purchase Receivable
Current Assets
Cash and Bank Notes                                             3,539    7,546   19,004   16,433    7,553   10,482   30,302   36,551   61,394
Accounts Receivable                                           214,143  102,482   75,634   68,940   65,252   63,480   62,816   58,019   59,185
Current Portion of Substation Hire-Purchase Receivable
Advances                                                                           300      300      300      300      300       300      300
Inventories                                                     9,294    7,716    9,675   10,210   11,467   13,120   13,902   14,536   15,273
Fuel                                                           19,014   15,850   19,014   19,014   19,014   19,014   19,014   19,014   19,014
Total Current Assets                                         245,990  133,594  123,627  114,897  103,586  106,396  126,334  128,421  155,166
TOTAL ASSETS                                                 657,017  526,787  506,790  534,755  583,874  585,184  590,822  583,654  581,950
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
EQUITY
Capital                                                       428,675  385,637  385,637  385,637  385,637  385,637  385,637  385,637  385,637
Retained Earnings and Reserves                                -17,103  -67,224  -71,243  -77,782  -77,851  -80,121  -71,025  -70,884  -73,363
Total Equity                                                 411,572  318,413  314,394  307,855  307,786  305,516  314,612  314,753  312,274
Long-term Debt
Existing long-term debt                                    147,572  105,565   92,162   74,721   52,110   27,847   16,695   11,706    8,106
New debt- World Bank                                                           1,651   19,780   59,720   67,504   67,504   61,879   56,253
New debt-SIDA                                                                  5,524   22,717   43,197   52,194   52,194   47,845   43,495
New debt-other                                                                16,180   32,043   44,751   54,533   61,867   69,711   82,967
Total Long-term Debt                                           147,572  105,565  115,516  149,261  199,778  202,079  198,261  191,141  190,822
Less Current Portion                                 10,570   13,403   19,753   27,519   31,688   21,034   27,305   28,800   33,061
Total Net Long Term Debt                                       137,002   92,162   95,764  121,743  168,090  181,045  170,955  162,340  157,761
Deferred Income                                                 10,603   10,558   10,558   10,558   10,558   10,558   10,558   10,558   10,558



Current Liabilities
Accounts Payable to Suppliers/Contractors                       29,909   34,267   35,093   35,852   34,524   35,802   36,162   35,974   37,067
Amount due to Vilnius Water Company                             14,074   20,900   20,900   20,900   20,900   20,900   20,900   20,900   20,900
Advances                                                            0        0    8,565    8,565    8,565    8,565    8,565    8,565    8,565
Short-term Borrowings                                           20,000   23,473
Current Portion ot Long-Term Debt                               10,570   13,403   19,753   27,519   31,688   21,034   27,305   28,800   33,061
Other                                                           23,287   13,611    1,764    1,764    1,764    1,764    1,764    1,764    1,764
Total Current Liabilities                                      97,840  105,654   86,074   94,599   97,441   88,065   94,696   96,003  101,357
TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES                                  657,017  526,787  506,790  534,755  583,874  585,184  590,822  583,654  581,950
Trade Payable (days)                                                54     -                                                   '63 1W. .60  60  60 0]l    60  00
AccountS Receivable,(days)                  ~24                             106       84-     ~ 78      72       88       6460               6
Current Ratio                                                      2.5       1.3     1.4      1.2       H 1.2             1.3      1s.3     1.'
Rate of Return onTotal Assets                                      41%     I51                 %       2%        2%       4% ,
Post-tax Retu  on EquIty                                                  ;0;. -1.3%.   -2.1%   L i 0.0%    -0.7% :a', 2.9%  ~0O0%    -0. 8%
Debt:Equity Rat'io                                               70.2     7 0.-2    0.       0.33      0.39     0.40    .0.39     0.3.    0.3



Action Plan for Vilnius District Heating Company (VDHC) to strengthen the financial management system
._______      ____                        Action                                          .    Re slb-nJ '             Deadline
I  Identifications of Project Team responsible for managing the Project.                                              31 May 2000
2   Updating of the chart of accounts in accounting system allowing for gathering information needed for   eDHC - pinance  15 January 2001
generating reports - Preparation of PMR formats according to the Project specifications. Providing the   Depart-ent
information on progress of actions to Financial Management Specialist and Task Team Leader.                       15 January 200
3   Customizing or installation of reporting module in accounting system enabling for generation of PMR    k        J_ 15 January 2001
and SOE (statement of expenditures).
4   Selection of the Bank to hold Special Account for the Project. Opening of the Special Account(s) for the VPHC     31 March 2001
Project in loan and local currency. Providing the Bank with the Comfort Letter.
5   Training of accounting staff in Intemational Accounting Standards and Financial Management  'DHCi    30 June 2001
6   Submitting the short list of auditors to the World Bank for acceptance. Selection of auditor(s) for the  VDHC     Board Conditions
Company and Project Financial Statement.
7   Preparation of accounting financial procedures manual                            YDHC                             Board Conditions
B   Submission of the VDHC audit report for period ended June 30 2000VDHC                              I $    . -    1 Januarv 2001
rpor                   30,       ,              *             .            .            X     yi . .






Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
LITHUANIA: VILNIUS DISTRICT HEATING PROJECT
Procurement
The procurement arrangement for goods, works and services to be financed under the project, their estimated
costs and proposed methods of procurement are presented in Table A. All procurement of goods to be financed
from IBRD Loan proceeds would be procured in accordance with the World Bank Guidelines for Procurement
under IBRD loans and IDA Credits, January 1995, revised January and August 1996, September 1997 and
Januaiy 1999, and using the Bank's Standard Bidding documents. Consulting services would be procured in
accordance with the Guidelines for Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers,
January 1997, revised September 1997 and January 1999. A "General Procurement Notice" containing
information about bidding opportunities was published in July 2000, issue of Development Business in
accordance with para 2.7 and 2.8, of IBRD Guidelines. Specific Procurement Notices will also be published, as
appropriate, in Lithuanian newspapers with national circulation.
The "Project Management Coordination Group" (PCMG), staffed by full time procurement specialists familiar
with the Bank procurement requirements, would be responsible for procurement arrangements with assistance of
the VDHC. Information regarding procurement administration would be collected and recorded and quarterly
reports would be sent to the Bank. These reports would indicate: (i) status of procurement; (ii) an updated
procurement plan; and (iii) compliance with aggregate limits on specified methods of procurement.
As the implementation of the project will be "decentralized" to heat and power generation and transmission and
distribution division PMCG will be responsible for supervising the technical and administrative aspects. For the
project implementation, a detailed Manual was delivered by VDHC and was discussed during the loan
negotiations and found satisfactory.
Works
The works will be financed by the Borrower's funds and procured through national competitive bidding in
accordance with the procedures specified in the Public Procurement Law.
Goods
The goods (estimated to cost US $22 million) to be financed under the project would include equipment for
CHPs, and HOBs. The Majority of equipment would be procured through ICB using single stage supply and
installation standard bidding documents. For the procurement of goods the Borrower will use goods standard
bidding documents One contract would not be on the basis of ICB: procurement of controlled pumps to the
boiler plant RK-7 would be procured through IS. The substations funded by the Swedish Govemment would be
procured on the basis of ICB.
Consultants
The consultants for auditing the VDHC and project accounts during 2002 and 2003 estimated to cost
US$100,000 will be selected competitively using LCS method.
Institutional Capacity Building in Procurement
An assessment of VDHC capacity to implement project procurement in accordance with the criteria outlined in
Annex 3 of LACI Handbook was completed during the project preappraisal. This review addressed the legal
aspects, procurement cycle management, organization and functions of the PIU, support and control systems,



record keeping, and staffing. Based on the assessment, the prior review thresholds recommended are those
applicable to an average-risk country.
Prior Review
Given the level of experience of the PIU, all the goods contract procured through ICB, first contract procured
through IS and the consultant contract for the privatization of VDHC are subject to prior review. The Bank will
also review, regardless of value and the financier, terms of reference of all consultants.
Table A: Procurement Methods
Procurement Methods (in US SO000)
Expenditure Category                   ICB       IS    Other  NBF    Total
Supply and Install                    22.04                           22.04
(16.71)                        (16.71)
Goods                                           0.10         20.65   20.75
(0.09)                (0.09)
Works                                                         15.52   15.52
Consultants and Technical Assistance                   0.10   5.84    5.94
(0.10)    -     (0.1)
Front-end Fee (1%)                                     0.17
TOTAL                                22.04    0.10   0.27   42.01   64.42
(16.71)   (0.09) (0.27)    -    (17.07)



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Consultant Services                        Selection  Method
Expenditure Category
QCBS   QBS   SFB        LCS        CQ     Other  N.B.F.  Total Costl
A. Firms              0.00    0.00   0.00     0.10      0.00    0.00    0.00      0.10
(0.0)  (0.00)  (0.00)    (O.)    (0.00)   (0.00)  (0.00)    (0.0)
B. Individuals        0.00    0.00   0.00     0.00      0.00    0.00    0.00      0.00
(0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)   (0.00)    (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)    (0.00)
Total  0.00    0.00   0.00     0.10      0.00    0.00    0.00      0.1
(0.0)  (0.00)  (0.00)   (0.0)    (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)     (0.0)
I\ Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines), Commercial
Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan.



Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
(USS million equivalent) Section 1: Procurement Review
Goods and            ICB          NCB            IS              NS            Minor        Other methods    Percentage of loan
Civil Works                                                                    Works                           amount subject to
prior review
Procurement    >USS100,000       n.a.      <US$100,000   n.a.               n.a.           n.a.                100%
thresholds:     (USS$22mill)               (US$100.000)
individual and
aggregate, in
A
Prior Review    all              n.a.      first           n.a.            n.a.           n.a.                 n.a.
Consultants     QCBS             QBS       LCS             Qualifications  Individual     Sole Source
Procurement    US$ >200,000   n.a.         US $100,000    n.a.             n.a.           n.a.
method
thresholds
Prior Review    n.a.             n.a.      ,,yes?           n.a.           n.a.           n.a.
Ex-post         Explain briefly the ex-post review mechanism:
Review All      All the remaining procurement packages will be subject to ex-post review.  Supervision missions will include a
other           procurement specialist as needed To assist the TM with ex-post reviews.
procurement
packages
Section 2: Capacity of the Implementing Agency in Procurement and Technical Assistance requirements
The capacity of the Implementing Agency has been assessed. Based on the analysis compiled in the Attachment 2 of the Assessment, the result is that
Lithuania is average risk country form the public procurement point of view. The VDHC's staff includes three specialists trained in international
procurement. This staffparticipated in an advanced-level procurement training organized by SIDA in Stockholm. The following is recommended to build
Company's capacity to undertake procurement: i) staff will be provided with the additional training during the project launch workshop and other training
organized by the World Bank and other institutions forrn time to time; ii) training shall also include the preparation of documents for each type of the
procurement method proposed in the loan agreement. The Company will follow the World Bank Standard bidding documents, procedures, Guidelines and
any other agreed procedures.
Country Procurement Assessment Report or Country         Are the bidding documents for the procurement actions of the first year
Procurement Strategy Paper status: N/A                  ready by negotiations
Yes No X
Section 3: Training, Information and Development on Procurement
Estimated date     Estimated date of      Indicate if there is    Domestic Preference      Domestic Preference for Works, if
of Project         publication of         procurement subject to  for Goods                applicable
Launch            General Procurement   mandatory SPN in                                   Yes    No  X
Workshop           Notice                 Development Business   Yes X   No
September 2001    July 2000               Yes X
No
Retroactive financing                                                    Advance procurement
X     Yes    No         Explain: Retroactive financing for high priority   Yes    No X  Explain:
investments was agreed to.
Explain briefly the Procurement Monitoring System: Procurement implementation progress will be monitored through progress reports
and supervision missions. Supervision missions will include a procurement specialist. She/he will be responsible for updating the
procurement plan, and conducting ex-post reviews. His/her findings will be included in the supervision reports for monitoring their
implementation.
Co-financing: Explain briefly the procurement arrangements under co-financing: n.a.
Section 4: Procurement Staffing
Indicate name of Procurement Staff or Bank's staff part of Task Team responsible for the procurement in the Project:
Name: Snezana Mitrovic, Sr. Procurement Specialist, Ext. 32812
Explain briefly the expected role of the Field Office in procurement: not defined.



Table B1. Procurement Plan
Code                  Component            Subcomponents   umber of Bid Categ. of       Estimated Financed Procurement Tender      I nvitation Bid     Contract    Contract   Contract
Packages      Procurement Cost    by          Method       Document  to bid    losing   Award Date  Signing Date Completion
(US$                           Preparation Date       ate                               Date
million)
Supply and Installation
CHP 3                               subtotal)                                      14.4
CHP/ICB/SI/001       Low NOx bumers                                I            S/I        2.9      WB         ICB        Aug-01    Sep-01   Nov-01       Feb-02       Mar-02       Dec-03
Lubrication and
CHP/ICB/SI/002       hydraulic oil systems                         I            S/I        0.9      WB         ICB        Jul-01     Sep-01   Nov-01      Mar-02       Apr-02       Dec-03
Regenerative air
.HP/ICB/SI/003       preheater                                    I            S/I        0.9      WB         ICB         Jun-01    Jul-01    Sep-01     Dec-01       Jan-02        Dec-02
Instrumentation and
CHP/ICB/Si/004       control system                                I            S/l        4.4      WB         ICB        Aug-01    Oct-01    Jan-02      Apr-02       May-02       Dec-03
Feed water pump with
Cl-lP/ICB/Sl/005     control                                      I            S/I         1.2     WB         ICB        Aug-01    Sep-01   Nov-01        Jan-02      Mar-02        Dec-03
DH pumps with control
CHP/ICB/Si/006        CHP2 and -3)                                 I            S/l        2.5      WB         ICB        Aug-01    Sep-01   Nov-01        Mar-02      Apr-02        Dec-03
High pressure gas
CHP/ICB/S1/007        pipeline                                     I            S/I         L.3     WB         ICB         Jul-01    Aug-01   Oct-01       Dec-01      Jan-02        Dec-02
CHP/ICB/SI/008        Soot blower to CHP 3                         i            S/I        0.3      WB         ICB         Jun-01     Jul-01    Sep-01     Dec-01      Jan-02        Dec-02
HOB-IJN ITS                            subtotal)                                      2.4
Water boiler and boiler
HOB/ICB/SI/009         quipment (RK2)                              I            S/I         1.5     WB         ICB        Mar-02    Apr-02   Jun-02        Oct-02      Nov-02        Dec-03
Steam boiler and heat
HOB/ICB/S1/010        exchanger (RK6)                              I            S/I        0.4      WB         ICB        Mar-02    Apr-02   Jun-02        Oct-02      Nov-02        Dec-03
Freq. controlled DH
HOB/ICB/SI/0 I        pumps (RK7)                                  I            G          0.1      WB          IS        Mar-02    Apr-02   Jun-02        Oct-02      Nov-02        Dec-03
Freq. controlled pumps
HOB/ICB/S1/012        and fans (RK8)                               I            S/I        0.4      WB         ICB        Mar-02    Apr-02   Jun-02        Oct-02      Nov-02        Dec-03
Taxes and civil works
related to CHP and HoB-
units                                                                                      5.4
Subtotal (CHP and
HOB-units)                                                                                 22.2
Goods
SUBSTATIONS           Installation of new
refabricated building-                                                       NBF        Open
evel substations                                                            (SIDA/   Tendering   Years 2001-
G+W         22.8    VDHC)      /NCB         2004
PIPELINES             DH and water inlet pipes
o substations                                                                NBF        Open
(SIDA/   Tendering   Years 2001-
G+W         7.0    VDHC)    /NCB            2004



Demand side measures
to buildings to reduce                                                                 Open
energy consumption                                                          NBF    Tendering   Years 2001-
DSM MEAStlRES                                                                             6.4    (ECF)       IECF        2004
Subtotal (substations,
pipes and DSM)                                                                           36.2
TECHNICAL
ASSISTANCE
Financial auditing of
VDHC and project                                                    0.1      WB         LCS      2002-2003
MIS implementation                                                          NBF
0.5    (SIDA)
Project implementation                                                      NBF
consulting                                                          1.4   (SIDA)
Demonstration project                                                       NBF
1.2   (SIDA)                Years 2001-
Twinning arrangements                                                       NBF                    2004
0.2    (SIDA)
Market Analysis and
Outreach                                                            2.0     GEF
Training for Market
Analysis                                                            0.5     GEF
ubtotal (TA)                                                                             5.9
Front-end fee (1%)                                                                       0.17
Grand Total                                                                        64.52
Bank financed project
costs                                                              16.90
Bank financed with the front-end fee                               17.1



Procurement Capacity Assessment
Summary of Finding and Actions
Assessment                                   Risk Assessment
Item Assessed      Null  Poor  Fair  Satis-    Major Weaknesses    Low    Ave.   High            Actions Proposed       Proposed Completion
factory                                                                                 Date
(a) Legal Aspects                                                                                 CPAR to undertake a      TBD
detailed analysis
(i) Laws & Regulations                X                                             X
(ii) NCB Procedures                   X                                             X
(iii) Internal codes and              X                                             X
manuals
(b) Proc. Cycle Mgmt.                  X                                            X
(i) General handling                  X                                             X
(ii) Procurement                      X                                             X
planning
(iii) Preparation of                  X             Under PPL certain               X             Bank standard bidding
documents                                           clauses of the                                documents will be used.
documents need to be                          Action already taken:
strengthened (see                             Staff was trained in Bank
Attachment 1, B3).                            procurement by an
Several documents                            international consultant.
have been prepared,                           Actions to be taken:
Further training of the
Procurement Specialist
(iv) Management of                    X                                             X
process



(v) Bid evaluation                      X             Some differences from                     X     Bank standard bidding
the Bank procedures                             documents will apply.
are identified under                            Actions to be taken:
attachment 1, B8.                               Further training for
procurement staff.
Further procurement
assistance on a need
basis.
All the contracts will be
reviewed by the Bank
(vi) Contract award                     X             No deficiency                    X
identified.
(vii) Preparation and                   X             No deficiency                    X
signing of contracts                                  identified.
(viii) Contract                         X             No deficiency                    X
management                                            identified.
 Organization and
Functions (relates only
to the PIU)
(i) Organization of unit               X                                               X
and functions
(ii) Internal manuals and              X              No deficiency                    X              Actions to be taken:      By negotiations.
instructions                                         identified.                                      Procurement manual to
be prepared (it should
include information
about the composition of
the evaluation
committee,
responsibilities, flow of
documents and signatory
powers. To indicate that
evaluators will observe
the highest ethic
standards.).
(d) Support and Control                                                                X
Systems



(i) Auditing                          X            The agency as a whole           X             RFP for audit of project
is audited by                                accounts to be launched
PriceWaterhouse.
Arrangements for
separate audit of
project accounts to be
set into place.
(ii) Legal assistance                X                                             X
(iii) Technical and                  X                                             X
administrative controls
(iv) Code of ethics                  x                                             X             Procurement manual for   By negotiations.
the PIU to also indicate
that staff involved in
procurement will observe
the highest ethic
standards.
(v) Anti-corruption           X                    No anti corruption              X             Bank standard bidding
initiatives                                        clauses under the                             documents will be used
bidding documents.
(e) Record keeping                    X                                            X
(i) Public notices                         X                             X
(ii) Bidding documents               X                                             X
(iii) Bid opening                    X             Agency is experienced           X             Actions already taken.    Training of Procurement
information                                        in conducting public                          Hands on training for the   Specialist in ILO Turin.
bidding according to                         PIU was provided
the PPL however,                             Actions to be taken:
these actions have not                       Further training for
yet been undertaken                          procurement staff.
under a Bank project.                        Further procurement
assistance if needed.
(iv) Bid evaluation                  X             Ditto.                          X             Ditto.
reports
(v) Formal appeals and               X             Ditto.                          X             Ditto.
outcomes
(vi) Signed contract                 X             Ditto.                          X             Ditto.
documents
(vii) Claims and dispute             X             Ditto.                          X             Ditto.
resolution records
(viii) Comprehensive                  X                                            X
disbursement data



(f) Staffing                          X                                              X
(g) General Procurement               X                                              x
Environment
(i) Promoting a culture of            X                                              X
accountability
(ii) Reputation of                   X                                               X
procurement corps
(iii) Salary structure               X                                               X
(iv) Freedom from                      X                                             X
political interference
(v) Existence of                      X                                              X
experienced and capable
staff
(vi) Clear written                   X                                               X
standards and delegation
of authority
(vii) Sound budget/                  X                                               X
financial systems
(h) Private Sector                     X                                             X
Assessment
(i) General efficiency and             X                                             X
predictability
(ii) Transparency                     X                                              X
(iii) Quality of contract              X                                             X
mgmt.
(iv) General reputation                X                                             X



Disbursement
Most of the disbursements are expected to be direct payments from the Bank due to the size of the contracts.
For the smaller contracts, VDHC has expressed a preference for disbursement of the World Bank Loan to be
based initially on the traditional disbursement procedures outlined in the Bank's Disbursement Handbook.
Once VDHC is able to prepare quarterly Project Management Reports (PMR), they will have the option of
disbursing based on PMRs, in accordance with procedures in the Bank's Loan Administration Chanpe
Initiative Handbook. Under either scenario, disbursements, which are not direct payments, would be
channeled through a Special Account in a commercial bank acceptable to the World Bank. The Ministry of
Finance confirmed that such a Special Account for this purpose would be opened in the name of VDHC. VDHC
will likewise manage the account.
VDHC has been informed about the rules for the processing of PMR- based disbursements. VDHC has also
been informed that the expenditures reported in the PMR would be reviewed by the external auditor, just as they
would be for any expenditures disbursed on the basis of SOEs, while traditional disbursement procedures are
used.
The flow of funds for the project will be straightforward. The funds from the Bank will flow to a Special
Account opened by VDHC and then expensed for project components. The VDHC will open the special
account in loan currency and project account in local currency in a reputable bank, which will issue the comfort
letter as included in Disbursement Handbook.
Proceeds of the World Bank Loan would be allocated in accordance with Table C, Annex 6. During
negotiations, agreement would be sought regarding the disbursement arrangements.
For smaller contracts, the Project will initially disburse under the Bank's traditional direct payment method,
with the option of moving to the PMR based disbursement method at the mutual agreement of the Borrower and
the Bank.
The Swedish Government Loan will be disbursed mainly by direct disbursements to the suppliers and
contractors, but it may to some extent also disburse its funds through an imprest account. The disbursement
arrangements for the Swedish Government Loan would be discussed and agreed during the negotiations with the
Swedish Government.
Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Expenditure Category       Amount in US$ million    Financing Percentage
A. Supply & Installation Contracts      16.58          100% of foreign and
80% of local expenditures
B. Services                             0.10           100% of the contract
C. Unallocated                           0.2
Total Project Costs                     16.93
Front-end fee         0.17
Total                                   17.05



Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
Initially, it is anticipated that the borrower will use the traditional disbursement procedures. Therefore, SOEs
will be used for all expenditures incurred on contracts which do not require the Bank's prior review.
Special account:
A special account in an amount of US$1,000,000 will be opened at a commercial bank acceptable to the Bank.
The minimum size of a disbursement application for direct payment would be 20% of the deposit to the Special
Account (US$200,000). For category 1 expenditures, which will be directly paid, the minimum application will
be $50,000.
Financing of the annual audit expenditures will not be financed from the loan.
The Bank would fund 100% of foreign costs and ex-factory expenditures and 80% of other local expenditures.



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
LITHUANIA: VILNIUS DISTRICT HEATING PROJECT
Project Schedule                               Planned                  Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)     16                        18
First Bank mission (identification)                                      11/15/1999
Appraisal mission departure                                              01/08/2001
Negotiations                                                             05/21/2001
Planned Date of Effectiveness                  11/23/2001
Prepared by:
Vilnius District Heating Company
Preparation assistance:
A-F International, Arthur Anderson, Terma, Ekser, Cowi
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                          Specialty
Gary Stuggins                           Program Team Leader
Arto Nuorkivi                           District Heating Specialist
Peter Kelly                             Financial Analyst
Victor Loksha                           Environmental Economist
Snezana Mitrovic                        Procurement Accredited Specialist
Bernard Baratz                          Environmental Specialist
Angela Walker Gary                      Operations Analyst
Larisa Markes                           Program Assistant
lwona Warzecha                          Financial Management Specialist






Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
LITHUANIA: VILNIUS DISTRICT HEATING PROJECT
A. Project Implementation Plan
B. Bank Staff Assessments
C. Other
Consultants' Feasibility Study and Background Reports
*Including electronic files






Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
LITHUANIA: VILNIUS DISTRICT HEATING PROJECT
May-2001
Difference between
expected
Original Amount in USS Millions                              and actual
disbursements8
Project ID           Purpose                                    IBRD         IDA                 GEF   Cancel.   Undisb.         Orig  Frmn Rev'd
FY
P068706      2001  SAL 2                                           9S.50      0.00                 0.00       0.00     50.16      33.01      0.00
P035776      2030  KLAIPEDA PORT                                   35.36      0.00                 o.00       0.00     31.51       5.15      0.00
P035780      2000  HEALTH                                          2124       0.00                 0.00       0.00     20.33       3.05      0.00
P035t02       190  MUNICCIPAL DEV'T                                20.10       0.00                0.00       0.00     27.00       5.38      0.00
P035163       1997  ENERGY EFFICHOUSING                            10.00      0.00                 0.00       000       1.52       1.52      0.00
P00t539       1997  SOC. POL. COMM SERV                             3.70      0.00                 0.00       0.00      1.39       123       0.00
P036011       1996  KLAIPEDA GEOTHERMAL                             5.90       0.00                6.90       0.00      0.92       0.92      0.00
P035783       1996  SAULAI EwnRoNmENT                               6.20       0.00                0.00       0.00      0.21       0.21      0.00
POOSS03       1996  PRIVATE AGRIC. DEVT.                           30.00       0.00                0 00       0.00     21.52      21 .s2    20.32
P008553       1995  KLAIPEDA ENVIRONMENT                            7.00       0.00                0.00       0.00      2.80       2.80      0.71
P006536       1905  ENT b FIN SECT                                 25.00       0.00                0.00       0.00      020        0.45      0.00
P008537       1994  POWER REHABILITATION                           26.40       0.00                0.00       0.00      7.61       7.61      7.61
Tot:       289.40       0.00               6.90        0.00     145.16     82.84      2t.64



LITHUANIA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
May-2001
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                         Disbursed
IFC                              IFC
FY Approval              Company                        Loan   Equity    Quasi   Partic    Loan   Equity    Quasi   Partic
2000                     Drobe Wool                      6.10     0.50    0.00     0.00    2.91     0.50     0.00    0.00
1999                     Ekranas                        10.99    0.00     2.05     0.00    5.77     0.00     1.68    0.00
0                       Margarino                      0.43     0.00     0.00    0.00     0.43    0.00     0.00     0.00
2000                     Mediena                         1.25     0.00    1.50     0.00    0.00     0.00     0.00    0.00
0                       Superfos                       1.36     0.00     0.00    0.00     1.36    0.00     0.00    0.00
1999/01                  Vilniaus Bankas                20.48    0.00     0.00     0.00    20.48    0.00     0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:        40.61     0.50     3.55     0.00    30.95    0.50     1.68    0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval              Company                           Loan    Equity      Quasi    Partic
2000                     Kartonas                          0.00       2.00      0.00      0.00
2000                     Lifosa                           25.00      10.00      0.00      10.00
Total Pending Commitment:        25.00      12.00      0.00     10.00



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
LITHUANIA: VILNIUS DISTRICT HEATING PROJECT
Europe &    Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                           Central   middle-
Lithuania     Asia  income        Development diamond
1999
Population, mid-year (millions)                       3.7       475     2,094                 Life expectancy
GNP percapita (Atlas method. USS)                   2,650      2,150     1,200
GNP (Atfas method, US$ billions)                      9.8      1,022    2,513
Average annual growth, 1993-99
Population (%)                                        -0.2       0.1       1.1     GN 
Labor force (%                                        0.1        0.6       1.2     GNP          ,                  Gross
per                   .       primary
Most recent esUmate (latest year available, 1993-99)                               capita                      enrollment
Poverty (% of population below national poverty line)
Urban population (% of total population)               74        67        43
Life expectancy at birth (years)                       71        69        69
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)               10        22        33
Child malnutrition (% of child,,n under 5)                        8        15                Access to safe water
Access to improved water source (% of population)                          86
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                    1         3        16
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age poPulation)  98       100       114          Lthuania
Maie                                                100       101       114              Lower-middle-income group
Female                                               96        99       116
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1979     1989      1998      1999      Econom0ratlos
GOP (US$ billions)                            ..       ..       10.7     10.6
Gross domestic investment/GDP                                   24.4     23.0                     Trade
Exports of goods and services/GDP                              47.2      39.8
Gross domestic savings/GDP                                      12.5     12.7
Gross national savings/GDP                                      12.3     11.8
Current account balance/GDP                                    -12 1     -11.2     Domeic 
Interest payments/GDP                                           0.5       0.7                    Investment
Total debt/GDP                                                  33.3     399      Savings
Total debt service/exports                                      18.6     18.6
Present value of debt/GDP                                       17.0
Present value of debt/exports                                  35.2
Indebtedness
197949  1989-99     1998       1999   199943
(average annual growth)
GDP                                          -4.0     5.1       -41-Lithuania
GNP per capita                                        5.0       -4.0      4.5               Lower-middle-income group
Exports of goods and services                         0.7      -18.3      6.9
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1979     1989      1998      1999     Growth of Investment and GDP %)
(% of GDP)                                                                        40
Agriculture                                                     10.4      9.0
Industry                                                       32.9      31.7    20
Manufacturing                                                 19.1      18.3
Services                                                        56.6     59.3      0           9r     9
Prvate consumPtion                                              63.1     64.8    -20Q-
General govemment consumption                                   24.4     22.5                     GDl    -*GDP
Imports of goods and services                                  59.1      50.1
197949  1989-99       1998     1999      Growth of exports and imports (%)
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                                     -2.6     -8.9     4
Industry                                                         9.4     -8.5    20
Manufacturing                                                  6.2      -6.7
Services                                                         4.4     -0.1     0 l       ' ' l
Private consumption                                              4.0       0.2   -20
General govemment consumption                                   22.9    -19.2
Gross domestic investment                                        5.2     -2.7   .40
Imports of goods and services                                    4.5     14.0                  Exports   -    InVorts
Gross national product                                           4.7     -4.2
Note: 1999 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete



Lithuania
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1979     1989        1998      1999      Inflation (%)
DomesVtc prices4C
(% change)                                                                                 T
Consumer prices                                                       5.1       0.8    300
Implicit GDP deflator                                                 6.7       3.4    200
Government tInance                                                                       100
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                       o -                       _
Current revenue                                    .        ..       32.6      29.9               94    9S    96    97    98    99
Current budget balance                            ..         .       -1.6      -4.5                   GDP delator    eCPI
Overall surplus/deficit                           ..         .       -5.8      -8.6
TRADE
('USS millions)                                1979      1989       1998       1999      Export and Import levels (US$ mill.)
Total exports (lob)                                                 3,711     3.004      3,000
Commodity 1                                                         713       450
Commodity 2                                                         691       683      6,000..
Other Manufactures                                                2,064      1,723
Total imports (cif)                                                 5,794     4,835      4,000
Food                                                                397       341      2.0095                   69      9      9
Fuel and energy                                                     903       803
Capital goods                                                       931       722         0
Export price index (1997=100)                                        96.3      98.5
Import price index (1997=100)                                        97.4      95.3                  H Exports     *imports
Terms of trade (1997=100)                                            98.9     103.4
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ millions)                                 1979      1989       1998      1999       Current account balance to GDP I%)
Exports of goods and services                                       5,071     4,238       0
Imports of goods and services                                       6,348     5,338
Resource balance                                                   -1,278    -1,099
Net income                                                           -255      -258
Net current transfers                                                235        163
Current account balance                                            -1,298    -1,194     .10
Financing items (net)                                               1,698       998
Changes in net reserves                            .                 -400       196     .15 ,
Memo:
Reserves including gold (USS millions)             .         .      1,460     1,242
Conversion rate (DEC, local/USS)                   .  9.80E-3       4.000     4.000
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1979     1989        1998      1999
(USS millions)                                                                           Composition of 1999 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed                                3,583     4,244
IBRD                                                               175       203      1                      203
IDA                                                                  0          0               G:801            C:232
Total debt service                                                   863        808  O5
lBRD                                                                15         15
IDA                                                                  0          0
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                                                     82
Official creditors                                                  81         20
Private creditors                                                  369       205
Foreign direct investment                                          921       478
Portfolio equity                                                     0          6                      F: 2,494
World Bank program
Commitments                                                          0         41      A - IBRD                      E - Bilalera;
Disbursements                                                       60         30      B - IDA    0 - Other multilateral  F - Private
Principal repayments                                                 4          4      C - IMF                      G - Short-term
Net flows                                                           56         26
Interest payments                                                    8         11
Net transfers                                                       48         15
Development Economics



Annex 11: Incremental Cost Analysis Summary
VILNIUS DISTRICT HEATING PROJECT
Scope of Analysis
The incremental cost analysis implemented to justify the GEF support to the project focuses on the energy
efficiency measures on both the supply and demand sides. The supply-side energy savings would be
achieved largely through the reduced network losses as a result of investments in the building-level
substations (BLS) coming to replace the group substations with the simultaneous reconfiguration of the
distribution network from a four-pipe system to a two-pipe one. The demand-side energy savings are at
the level of the substation in residential apartment blocks as well as at the individual apartment level.
The global environmental impact from the project is due to the fuel and associated GHG emission savings
that would not have been feasible outside the framework of the GEF component of the project. The
relationship with the other components of the project is based on the impact of these savings on the heat
production needs at the Vilnius District Heating Company (VDHC). The investment costs of the non-GEF
components of the project such as the CHP rehabilitation and the replacement of HOBs are not affected
and remain outside the system boundary of the GEF project.
The current fuel mix used by the VDHC for heat generation (about 90% gas and 10% heavy fuel oil) is
potentially subject to fluctuations depending on the relative prices for gas and oil products. However, both
the project and the baseline (the "without-project" scenario) are subject to the same uncertainty in this
respect and thus the impact of this variable on the incremental cost analysis is considered minimal.
Baseline
The baseline scenario is built on the assumption that the VDHC would continue its operation in the
conditions of a declining demand. The heat sales forecast is based on the projections prepared by
independent consultants and reviewed by the office of the Chief Economist of the VDHC. The company
would continue replacing block substations with building-level substations, but the progress of the
program would be hampered by the lack of incentives for the homeowners to implement the replacements
(as noted before, the heating bill would increase for the majority of the customers currently receiving heat
from block substations - i.e., for 60% of the DH customers in Vilnius).This would result in the
replacement of about 80 block substations by some 1,200 new building-level substations by 2015. This
estimate is based on the VDHC's original plan to replace the block substations by 2015, with an expected
success rate of 50% (higher replacement rates have been modeled as cases under sensitivity analysis). The
50% success rate is based on experience over the past three years in substation replacements of about 3-5
block substations per year, each block substation being replaced with 15 building-level substations on
average. The lack of marketing expertise and shortage of qualified personnel would prevent implementing
the replacements in a larger number of residential buildings. The high transaction costs associated with
reaching a formal agreement with the homeowners would probably lead to implementing the
replacements without cost-sharing with the customer (or, worse, without the homeowners' consent) and
possibly without giving control over the substation to the homeowners. External debt financing (such as
the SIDA loan) would not be available after 2003, which would also constrain the progress with
implementing the replacement of block substations with BLS. No upgrades of existing building-level
substations would be implemented by VDHC, although some upgrades would be implemented on a
limited scale by other parties. Demand-side energy conservation measures would be practiced on a very
limited scale due to the lack of incentives for such measures in the absence of customer-controlled heat
supply at the substation level.



GEF Proposed Project
The proposed GEF alternative for the Vilnius District Heating Project would aim to expand the market
penetration of the BLS technology to a larger number of households while ensuring the full degree of
ownership and operation of the substations by the homeowners. The customer-controlled operating mode
of the existing and newly installed BLS would provide the incentives for the homeowners to participate in
the substation replacement and upgrade program and thus ensure that the environmental and energy
conservation benefits of this technology are fully realized.
Higher penetration rate of the substation replacement program. The GEF support is expected to
increase the penetration rate of the substation replacement program, resulting in the replacement of a
larger number of group substations than in the baseline. In the project scenario, the replacement of all 161
group substations currently owned by VDHC with about 2,400 new building-level substations would be
completed by the year 2006. Lower replacement rates have been simulated in the sensitivity analysis. The
reasons for the increased speed and rate of replacements relative to the base case are the following:
The increased attractiveness of the substation replacement program for the homeowners due to guaranteed
ownership of the building-level substations by the homeowners; the removal of the access barrier to the
substation will enable the customer-controlled mode of operation of the substations and the resulting
savings on the heating bill.
Better awareness of the substation replacement program and its benefits by the home owners resulting
from the public outreach campaign.
Additional incentives to BLS owners such as apartment-level improvements implemented with a 50%
discount during the start-up phase.
As a result of the replacements, the losses in the heat supply networks will be reduced, and the resulting
fuel and GHG emission savings would be the primary benefit from the project.
Demand-side energy conservation measures. Once the building-level substations are installed, and
home-owner access is ensured, the customer-controlled mode of operation of the substations would
enable energy savings on the demand side. These would also translate into lower fuel consumption by the
district heating system with associated GHG reductions. These savings would only be possible after the
substation replacements and thus would depend, first of all, on the realization of the replacements, but
also on the energy saving measures implemented on the apartment level. These savings would be
additional to those achieved due to the reduced network losses. It is expected that the most basic energy
conservation behaviors (such as avoiding keeping the windows open when not necessary) would be
practiced widely. More sophisticated measures with relatively high capital costs (replacement of
windows to install energy-efficient ones; installation of apartment-level heat meters and thermostatic
valves; roof insulation, etc.) would be implemented inasmuch as the savings on the energy bill would
justify the investments needed. For these measures, the VDHC will offer its services to implement the
installation through a crediting scheme with the repayment fees going from the homeowners to the
Energy Conservation Fund (ECF). For the start-up period of the program, these improvements may be
offered with a sizable discount on the value of investment.



The Costs of Barrier Removal
The acceptance of the VDHC-implemented substation replacement program by the homeowners presents
a major barrier to BLS penetration. To stimulate the customer buy-in to the substation replacement
program, VDHC will offer that for those homeowners who sign up to the substation replacement during
the first year or two, the VDHC will implement apartment level improvements. The homeowner will be
asked to choose from a list of measures such as the installation of thermostatic valves, apartment-level
heat meters, replacement of windows, etc. To help VDHC bear the financial burden of these
improvements and partially compensate VDHC for the possible loss of sales revenue resulting from these
DSM improvements, the GEF will be asked to provide about US$ 2.5 million in capital cost exemptions
from the Energy Conservation Fund. For its part, VDHC will be asked to exempt the homeowners from
repaying this portion of the investment cost into the ECF. This would provide a further incentive to the
homeowners to convert to BLS.
Another essential component of the GEF's investment program will be the Marketing and Outreach
component (US$ 2 million funded by the GEF). The contractor for the component will be procured
competitively. This component would assist to establish a marketing department within the VDHC and
manage an outreach campaign to increase the public acceptance of VDHC's substation replacement
program.
Under the US$ 0.5 million GEF-funded Technical Assistance component, the funds would be used for
market studies and training to VDHC in demand-side energy conservation to explain the long-term
benefits for the heat supplier to engage in client-driven energy conservation measures. Market rigidities
would be analyzed and solutions proposed. The component would also cover a monitoring and evaluation
sub-component, including a survey of households who had a BLS installed under the EEHPP's and under
VDHC's conversion programs, and a comparison of impact on the energy bill in both of these cases.
Taken together, the components mentioned above (grant-financed by a total of about US$ 5 million from
the GEF) can be considered a barrier removal investment by the GEF. The barriers to be removed are
both on the demand and supply side, as well as on the interface between these. On the supply side, the
main barrier is the absence of appropriate marketing capabilities and insufficient client orientation of the
VDHC. On the demand side, the main barrier is the lack of attention of homeowners to the common areas
and equipment (such as heating substations) in their buildings and lack of motivation to take
responsibility for common property. The barrier on the interface of supply and demand side is the lack of
dialogue or effective coordination between the two sides on energy conservation. This barrier would be
addressed through creating a collaborative engagement of public authorities and private participants in the
market, with the VDHC's substation replacement program. The low incomes and lack of collateral
presents a barrier to obtaining commercial credit for substation replacement for many customers. This
problem would be solved by extending credit for substation replacements through the ECF owned by the
VDHC. The DSM measures enabled by the substation replacements would eventually provide an
opportunity for the businesses operating in an ESCO mode to split the benefits of DSM measures with the
homeowners. Finally, the legal uncertainty about the ownership status of the substations installed by the
VDHC in residential buildings is a substantial regulatory barrier that would need to be removed - through
amendments to relevant legislation if necessary.



Box 1. Incentives to homeowners' associations
As part of barrier removal efforts and in addition to the modest contribution to buying down the up-front
cost of the substations as applied to the upgrades of the existing BLS, the GEF support would have a
role in strengthening the local institutional capacity. Ideally, the GEF funding would be structured in a
way that would encourage the effective ownership by the homeowners by stimulating the formation of
HOAs. E.g., for buildings who have formed an HOA, the substations could be installed with a larger
grant portion in the installation cost. An additional premium may be given for earlier installation (e.g.,
for completing the installation during the 1st year of the program).
For buildings who have failed to establish an HOA but have ensured a minimum required level of buy-in
for the substation replacement program (expressed and documented as a decision by the general meeting
of the apartment building), the installation may still be implemented by VDHC at the request of the
administrator of a building appointed by the municipality. The homeowners of the apartment building
would still be encouraged to form an HOA (e.g., the access to the substation by a homeowners'
representative would only be granted when an HOA is established and a loan/lease agreement for the
substation is signed with the HOA). No substation replacement would take place in buildings where no
explicit homeowners' consent for the substation replacement has been established.
The Energy Conservation Fund would ensure the continuity of the energy efficiency program. The GEF
funding through the ECF, as well as the money accumulated in the fund from the return flow of money
coming from the homeowners, would be offered on a loan or hire-purchase contract basis to finance
additional substation replacements and upgrades as well as other energy conservation measures. This is
particularly important because the World Bank's support through the IBRD loan, as well as the bilateral
support through the SIDA loan, will be discontinued after the year 2003. At that point, a maximum of
1,480 substation replacements are expected to have taken place. The replacement of the remaining over
900 substations, upgrades for a large number of existing (old-type) BLS, as well as apartment-level
improvements and other DSM measures would represent the remaining market for the ECF.
Project investments
Substation investments
The inclusion of the barrier removal measures estimated to cost about US$5m allows increasing the
market penetration of the BLS technology. The relationship between the costs for barrier removal and the
market penetration has not been quantified precisely, but the incremental cost model utilized for this
calculation helps estimate the basic dimensions under certain working assumptions.
Additional replacement of block substations with BLS. Achieving the target of 2,400 new substations
would bring an additional reduction of C02 emissions by 1,640,000 tons, due both to the additional
network loss reductions and basic energy conservation measures enabled on the demand side. However,
this would be done at the cost of lowering the EIRR on the overall substation replacement program to
about 14%. The financial return would also decline - due partly to the fact that even the most basic
demand-side conservation measures are estimated to reduce the DH company's sales by US$ 10 - 15
million in terms of present value (assuming that the company has no possibility to compensate for this
loss by raising the tariff).
Even though the rate of return remains above the discount rate of 12%, the additional substation
replacement investments (including the barrier removal costs) are considered part of the project costs
rather than the baseline. The assumption of additionality of these costs rests on the following
considerations: (i) the nature of the barrier removal measures, which makes them unlikely to be



implemented outside the framework of the proposed project; (ii) the availability of the baseline
investment program which, while smaller in scale, can bring a higher rate of return of 20% as noted
below; (iii) the heat bill increase for 60% of the DH customers creates a barrier for the acceptance of the
program by the customers, which hinders the expansion of the replacement program; (iv) resource
constraints such as insufficient availability of qualified staff to implement substation replacements in a
large number of houses unless VDHC's marketing capacity and technical expertise are strengthened; (v)
lack of external funding (such as the SIDA loan) for substation replacements after 2003.
Upgrades of existing BLS. This investment would not be pursued by the VDHC in the absence of the
GEF support. From the DH company's perspective, the return on this investment is insufficient. Relative
to the replacement investment described above, the company gains much less in terms of reduced heat
losses in the network and in domestic hot water supply. However, the measure still offers substantial fuel
and GHG savings, and the size of the market is quite large, with 2,300 substations of the old type (indeed,
as many as 3,000 - 3,500 if non-residential buildings are included) potentially suitable for upgrading. The
analysis assumes a partial penetration of this market with the financing provided through the Energy
Conservation Fund (ECF). With one thousand substations upgraded, an additional 252,000 tons of C02
can be saved.
Basic energy conservation measures on the demand side
These measures are closely linked to the substation investments since: (i) they only become meaningful
after the client-controlled operation becomes possible at the building substation level; (ii) the possibility
of demand-side conservation is an important factor contributing to the acceptance of the substation
replacements by the homeowners. Project case A (see the Table below) represents the possibility of
expanding the penetration of BLS from 1,200 to 2,400 combined with these basic energy saving
measures.
Apartment-level investments
Further carbon savings can be realized on the next level of the demand-side management program
illustrated in the Table I by Project case B. The support through the ECF, for which the GEF is asked to
contribute US$ 7.5 million, would include about US$2.5 million for these investments. The demand for
measures such as apartment-level heat meters and thermostatic valves, window replacement with more
energy-efficient ones, etc., is subject to uncertainty and will depend both on the economic return and on
the financial incentives for the customer. At the same time, these measures are solidly additional (i.e., not
part of the baseline) since the pay-off from the domestic benefit perspective is insufficient, although this
conclusion is sensitive to the assumptions made about the true economic cost of fuel (natural gas) used by
the DH company. Under the current assumptions, 310,000 tons of additional C02 emission reduction can
be achieved by a 25% penetration of apartment-level heat meters and thermostatic valves into the
homeowners' market. By achieving a market penetration of 25% for energy-efficient windows, a further
247,000 tons of C02 can be saved, bringing the total C02 emission reduction to about 2,374,000 tons.
The unit abatement cost corresponding to Project case B is US$ 4.37 per ton of carbon equivalent. With
the GEF contributing in total US$10 million, the unit abatement cost for the GEF is US$ 15.45 per tCe. It
should be kept in mind that only about one-third of this would be extended to the final beneficiaries as
grants, with the remainder being lent through the ECF on a revolving loan basis.



Table 1. The key comparisons between the Baseline and two Project cases (Case B = Proposed
Project).
Baseline:                     Project         Project: (Case B):
1200 building-level           (Case A):       2400 BLS replacements,
substations (BLS)             2400 BLS        30% penetration of
replacing block               replaceme       market for substation
substations; 370 BLS          nts and         upgrades (1000 building-
upgrades; 40%                 80%             level substations), 80%
incidence of basic            incidence       incidence of basic
demand-side energy            of basic        demand-side energy
saving behavior; 10%          demand-         saving behavior, 25%
penetration for               side energy     penetration for
apartment-level heat          saving          apartment-level heat
meters and thermostatic       measures;       meters and thermostatic
valves, and IO%               the rest as     valves, and 25%
penetration for energy-       in the          penetration for energy-
efficient windows             Baseline        efficient windows
Business as Usual   14,306                       14,306          14,306
(BAU) Emissions,
thousand ton C02
Baseline Emnissions, 13,350                      13,350          13,350
thousand ton C02
Project Emissions,                               11,710          10,976
thousand ton C02
Emission Reduction 956                           2,596           3,330
relative to BAU,
thousand ton C02
Emission Reduction  -                            1,640           2,374
relative to Baseline,
thousand ton C02
Incremental Cost,                                -3,796          2,829
thousand US$
Unit abatement                                   -8.49           4.37
cost, US$/tCe
EIRR without GEF  20%                            14%             11%
support
Unit abatement cost                              11.18
to GEF with
financing at $5
million, US$/tCe
Unit abatement cost                                              15.45
to GEF with
financing at $ 10
million, US$/tCe
Additionality
The global environmental benefits pursued under the project are represented by the incremental emission
reductions calculated as the difference between the baseline and project emissions.
As this project is proposed under GEF's OP-5 ("Barrier Removal for Energy Efficiency and Energy
Conservation"), it is essential to include the cost of barrier removal as part of the proposed project costs.
As noted earlier, the barrier removal costs totaling about USS 5m consist of the cost of a marketing and



outreach program, technical assistance for the VDHC, and a modest temporary subsidy towards apartnent
level demand-side management measures. The subsidy will also serve to expand the market penetration of
the BLS by engaging HOAs in evaluating energy conservation measures.
Before the addition of the barrier removal costs, the economic rate of return on the block substation
replacements is about 20%, which is high enough to justify the inclusion of these investments into the
baseline scenario. The pay-off comes mostly from the reduced losses in the heat supply network. Based
on this consideration, the baseline scenario assumes 1,200 new substations and resulting in 711,000 tons
of C02 saved relative to the business as usual. Combined with some other improvements that would
conceivably have taken place without the project, this amounts to 956,000 tons of C02 reduction relative
to the business-as-usual case (see the "Baseline" column in the Table below). These emission reductions
are not claimed to result from the GEF support as the fuel savings provide a sufficient incentive to justify
the investment from the domestic economy point of view.
Table 2
Incremental Cost Matrix /Benefit Analysis Summary
Proposed Project   Base              Increment                          Benefits/Impa
(Case B)                                                                cts from
Incremental
Project
Domestic         Global
Domestic        2,400 building-    1,200 building-    1,200 additional   Fuel cost       C02 emission
Benefits/       level substations    level substations   building-level  savings of about  reduction of
Impacts:        (BLS) with         replacing 80      substations       US$ 21 million    1,185 kton
customer-         block substations   replacements and   due to reduced
controlled         by 2015;          guaranteed        heat network
operation          uncertain level   customer-         losses;
replacing 161      of customer       controlled
block substations    control over BLS   operation of all    Cost savings of
by 2006            operation         2,400 BLS         about US$ I
million for
O&M for
substations
30% penetration    Less than 10%     630 additional    Fuel cost        C02 emission
of market for      penetration of    building-level    savings of about  reduction of
substation        market for         substations       US$ 4.7 million   252 kton
upgrades (1,000    substation        replacements      due to reduced
building-level     upgrades (370     with guaranteed    heat network
substations) by    building-level    customer -        losses;
2006               substations) by   controlled
2015              operation         Cost savings of
about US$ 1.3
million for
O&M for
substations
80% incidence of   40% incidence     Basic demand-     Fuel cost        C02 emission
basic demand-      of basic demand-   side energy      savings of US$    reduction of
side energy        side energy       conservation      6.5 million due    380 kton
conservation       conservation      behavior in more  to reduced
behavior in 3,400    behavior in    than 60,000        consumption of
residential        1,500 residential   additional      heat in
buildings          buildings         apartments        buildings
25% penetration    10% penetration    Heat meters and    Fuel cost      C02 emission



rate for          rate for          thermostatic      savings of US$    reduction of
apartment-level   apartment-level    valves in more   5.3 million due    310 kton
heat meters and   heat meters and    than 20,000     to reduced
thermostatic      thermostatic      additional        consumption of
valves in 3,400   valves in 1,500    apartments       heat in
residential       residential                         buildings
buildings         buildings
25% penetration   10% penetration    Energy-efficient   Fuel cost      C02 emission
for energy-       for energy-       windows in more  savings of US$    reduction of
efficient windows   efficient       than 20,000       4.2 million due    247 kton
in 3,400          windows in        additional       to reduced
residential       1,500 residential   apartments      consumption of
buildings         buildings                           heat in
buildings
Marketing                           Enhanced client   Better quality  GHG emission
outreach and TA                     orientation of the   DH service for   benefits due to
for the VDHC                        VDHC and         the              increased
improved         homeowners       market
marketing                         penetration of
expertise        Customer-        modem
controlled      technology for
Better awareness   operation      space heating
of the           reduces the cost  and demand-
homeowners       of DH services   side energy
about the        for the          conservation in
benefits of      homeowners       Vilnius
energy
conservation and   Stronger long-
options available  term financial
to them          position of
VDHC as a
result of a
consolidated
customer base
Domestic        Establishment of                    Availability of  Access to        Same as
Benefits/      the Energy                           financial and     financing for   above, plus
Inmpacts:      Conservation                         technical        substation       potential GHG
Fund                                assistance to    replacement       savings
homeowners       and reduced      downstream as
from the Energy   transaction     result of
Conservation     costs for the    demonstration
Fund             homeowners       effect
interested in
implementing
energy-
conservation
measures in
their homes
Global
Emissions:      11,458            12,951           -2,374
(thous. ton    3,125                3,532           -647
C02)
(thous. tCe)



Costs ($000):
Investment    49,858            11,389           38,469
Fuel         218,694           260,383          -41,688
O&M          12,103            14,371           -2,268
Transaction    3,973           389              3,585
costs          4,732             -                4,732
Barrier      289,360           286,531          2,829
removal costs
Total ($000):
Unit
Abatement                                         1.19
Cost:                                             4.37
US$/tCO2
US$/tC
Unit
Abatement
Cost for GEF
(based on                                         4.21
US$lOm                                            15.45
grant):
US$/tCO2
US$/tC
Sensitivity Analysis
Impact of the following variables has been considered:
Price of natural gas
Larger number of substation replacements in the Baseline
Lower replacement rate for substations in the Project case
Number of upgrades in the Project case
Transaction costs per substation replacement in the Project case
An increase in the price of natural gas increases the economic return on the proposed investments.
However, it would take a much higher price for natural gas to change the ranking of the investments.
Basically, the investments for which the economic return decreases with an increasing scale (penetration
level) remain so even when substantially higher shadow prices are assigned to natural gas. Conversely,
the investments which increase the economic return on the margin do so even at the current level of gas
price (335 Lt or US$83.8 per thousand cubic meters for CHP plants of the district heating system). The
demand side measures (other than the basic energy saving behavior) belong to the former category of
investments, while substation replacements represent the latter.
The assumption of a large number of replacements in the Baseline is capable of reducing the GHG
reduction benefits from the project substantially. Lowering the number of replacements in the Project case
has the same effect. However, it should be noted that the Baseline currently selected is a challenging one,
with several energy conservation measures assumed to be happening in the absence of the project even
when the commitment of the VDHC to these measures is uncertain (e.g., upgrades of existing building-
level substations).
Increasing the number of substation upgrades in the Project case influences the GHG savings
substantially, but this investment is somewhat below economic cost recovery based solely on the
domestic benefits such as fuel savings. The GEF support for this investment would be well justified.



The assumption of higher transaction costs under the project puts the EIRR on additional substation
replacements (Project case A) below the discount rate of 12% and turns the incremental cost from
negative to positive. This change occurs when the transaction cost per substation exceeds $3,300 per BLS
as compared with the current assumption of $1,500.
Table 3. Barriers to Energy Efficiency Addressed by the Project
Description of Barrier   Measures to       Benefits as         Sustainability      Replicability
Address/Remove      compared with
the Barrier         the Baseline
Perceived lack of      I) Technical        The implicit        With broad          The approach is
financial incentive for    assistance to VDHC    baseline project  introduction of  highly replicable
the district heating   for conducting a    would have          building-level      throughout Eastern
company to participate    multi-perspective  included a more   substations and     Europe where
in demand-side         financial and       limited penetration   customer control  many district
management measures   economnic analysis    of the market for  over heat           heating systems
such as introduction of   (from the utility's,    new building-level   consumption, the  built under central
building-level         customer's, societal,  substations. The  level of customer    planning are in
substations. The       and global          GEF component       satisfaction will   need of
perception is that     environmental       would save         increase, and the    fundamental
demand-side energy     perspectives) of    additional 2.37     customer base of    modernization to
conservation benefits    implementing      rnillion tons of    the DH company      imnprove energy
the customers but not    demand-side energy   C02 over the     will stabilize. The    efficiency, and
the utility. While in the   conservation   project life due to    comnpany's       where awareness of
long run the DH       measures -           installation of     profitability should   energy saving
company could benefit  including the DSM   additional building-  eventually grow as   opportunities at the
from such measures     aspects of the      level substations   the long-term cost   customer level has
due to increased       building-level      and the demand-     savings due to      been lacking. The
customer satisfaction  substations         side energy        improved demand-   findings of the TA
and reduced costs of   component.          conservation        side efficiency are   component for the
supplying heat to the                      enabled as a result.   utilized by the DH    DH company will
customers, the         2) Public outreach,    The marketing    company.            be readily
cornpany can lose      potentially using   research during     Likewise, potential  transferable to
revenue in the short   NGOs established    project             use of NGOs and     other DH
run. The lower heat    under Bank's        implementation      other outreach      companies. The
consumption cannot be   EEHPP project, and   will allow        channels would      provision of
fully compensated by  provision of         determining the     help to demonstrate  financial resources
heat tariff increases due   affordable financing   level of direct  benefits of working   for partial grant
to social considerations   from the Energy  incentive (partial  with these        financing to the
and competition from   Conservation Fund    grant financing)   organizations to    consumers is
disconnected boilers.    (ECF) to building  sufficient to      promote demand-    potentially
owners and building   achieve the desired   side improvements.  replicable without
substation          penetration targets.                   resorting to GEF
management                                                  once it is
companies to enable                                         established that
investments into                                            demand side
modernization of                                            improvements can
existing building-                                          eventually benefit
level substations.                                          DH companies.
3) Availability of
ECF funding as a
contingent finance
facility for the
replacement of



block substations
with BLS in the case
of unforeseen
obstacles arising in
the process of
implementing the
SIDA-financed
substation
replacements.
4) Market research
during the
implementation of
the project to
establish the level of
direct incentive to
consumers needed
to achieve the
expected penetration
of the BLS
technology.
Under the proposed            .            The ECF would not  The approach to
Decentralized structure    GE-iacdThe baseline                      dpn  nadesnh
of ownership and        GEF-financed          project would not     depend on           addressing the
decision-making         component, the        have included         replenishments      barrier of high
leading to high   VDHC would  creating or hiring from the GEF once   transaction costs by
leading to high         establish an Energy    creating or hiring  it is established.   matching them
otrainsationg  csthe    o Conservation Fund   denatedito y          The lending/leasing   with an appropriate
obtagr eni the          and hire a firm to       gand to            account of the fund   level of technical
agreement to            handle the program    handle the public     would have a        and human
inmplement the needed   of outreach and       the substations      sufficient rate of   resource allocation
builstding-s leve       technical and         component. The        return to attract    is very common
building-levelfinancial assistance    bempnefit. ofTheGE.   other financing. At   and highly
substations. There arebefiofteGF
about 4,800 buildings   to homeowners. The   funded staff           a minimum, the      replicable. The
in Vilnius served from  outreach program      commuitted under      impact from the     lessons learned
heating           ~~would promote the   teEFporm              envisaged           from the
concept of energy     would translate     investment            experience of the
efficiency            into better          program will last    ECF program
investments and       penetration of the   for the operating    would be shared
publicize the         peerto   fte         life of the building-
sources of fanding                         level substations
for energy                                 installed with the
efficiency available                       support of this
in Lithuania.                              program. Once the
substations are
installed, the
energy savings of
customer-
controlled
operation would
create a lasting
incentive for the
customers to keep
them.



substations owned by                        building substation                     throughout
municipal, commercial,                      market and                              Lithuania by
and pivate owners and                       eventually into                         making use of the
oprantdained byseparatehigher energy and                                            existing network of
maintained by separate                      C02 savings. The                        Energy Efficiency
service companies                           number of                               Advisory Centers
building-level                         (of which there are
substation                             at least five).
conversions and
new installations
made by the
VDHC will be one
measure of
effectiveness of the
outreach and
technical and
financial assistance
program.
Many consumers are     The GEF-fmanced      The GEF-            Paying the full cost   The market
unable to pay the price    market research  supported program    per GJ of heat     research during
that reflects the full  program will use    at VDHC would      received from the    project
economic cost of heat    survey data relating    develop and utilize   DH company will   implementation
supply; awareness of   to the percent of    an empirical        be easier as soon as   will enable
energy saving          individual incomes    relationship      the introduction of   judicious provision
opportunities is also  spent for heating in    between the      building-level      of incentives to the
lacking.               order to determine   customers' ability    substations      consumers once the
where the provision   to pay and the    removes the         optimal level of
of financial        energy/carbon       technical barrier   incentive is known.
incentives for      savings from the    for the building-   The findings on the
energy saving       increased market    level customer to    ability to pay for
investments is the  penetration of the  choose the desired    energy efficient
most effective.     building-level      level of heat       district heating in a
Grant fmancing will  substation         consumption.        relatively well-off
be applied          technology. The     Moreover, the       ex-USSR republic
selectively to      baseline project    energy savings will   would have a high
maximize the        would not have      provide a           replication
market penetration    involved such an  sustainable benefit   potential for many
of the building-level   effort.         to the households,    other CIS locations
substation                              contributing to     approaching
technology; the                         their well-being    similar levels of
awareness barrier                       and thus mitigating   market-oriented
will be addressed                       the affordability   development.
through public                          barrier.
outreach and
dissemination of
technical
information.



STAP Review and Response of the Project Team
STAP REVIEW OF:
Project Concept Note
Vilnius District Heat Project
Dr Lars J. Nilsson. Ltond UniversitY, Swveden
Lars.Nilsson(sii.milio.lth.se
Summary
The review is based on the Project Concept Note and the Aide Memoire. The proposed project is relevant,
justified and should be given high priority. Still in the form of a Project Concept Note, several parts of the
project remains to be developed in greater detail. The close links to the Vilnius District Heating
Rehabilitation Project and the Energy Efficiency Housing Pilot Project (EEHPP) further strengthens the
proposal. One suggestion is to strengthen capacity building through involving a Lithuanian
university(ies).
1. Overall impression
Overall this is an important and relevant project. The main component in the proposed project is to
remove barriers and replace existing group substations with new in-building substations that facilitate
heat control at the building level (and presumably better measurement/monitoring although the present
ways of measuring and billing are not detailed in the project concept note). Measurement and control is,
of course, an important prerequisite for realising future energy efficiency improvements from other
demand-side measures.
There is not enough detail and data in the proposal to comment on the viability of achieving the proposed
savings. For example, it is stated that it takes 450 kWh to heat one square meter of residential space and
that: "The main reason is poor insulation and heat losses in the network, as well as lack of possibility for
consumers to control heating." There is no detail on where the losses occur or what percentage of final
energy (i.e.. energy delivered to the building) that can be saved through the substation installations.
However, more data and references to other reports are found in a background document (The Aide
Memoire) indicating a solid foundation for the estimates.
2. Relevance and priority
The project is relevant and should be given high priority given the widely recognised need to improve the
performance of district heating systems in Central and Eastern Europe. If present and potential customers
are lost to other heating options, the possibility of low-polluting and energy efficient CHP may also be
lost. It is a common misconception not only in Vilnius that energy conservation in buildings with district
heating is not viable.
3. Project approach
The approach is to give loans and grants to substation installations through a GEF supported Energy
Conservation Fund, do marketing, outreach and education, and provide technical assistance to the Vilnius
District Heating Company. A reasonable mix of canots and sticks (through lobbying for regulatory
changes) is proposed.
It should be a strength that the project is undertaken as a part of a greater project to modemise the heat
and power production in the district heating system.
A key barrier is the perceived lack of financial incentive for the district heating company to participate in
energy efficiency efforts. This is perhaps the greatest challenge in the project. As a result, it is a
(necessary!) risk to establish certain functions at the district heating company and it is crucial that the



company can be turned around to see the financial benefits (from reduced peak demand, better
competitiveness against other heating options. and developing an energy services market).
It is not clear to what extent the Energy Conservation Fund will/can finance also other energy efficiency
measures (windows, insulation, etc.) in addition to substation installations. Co-ordination and Cupertino
with the ongoing Energy Efficiency Housing Pilot Project (EEHPP) as indicated strengthens the proposal.
Combining or co-ordinating substation installations with energy efficiency improvements (without which
the installations may result mainly in reduced bills from lower comfort/indoor temperatures) can improve
customer acceptance.
4. Objectives
The stated objectives are valid but there is not enough detail in the proposal (e.g., background data or
quantified goals and penetration levels) to comment on the prospects for achieving the objectives.
5. Background and justification
As noted there is little technical detail provided in the proposal. Apart from that, the proposal is well
justified and other background informnation is presented. Additional background and justification mainly
on the institutional/organisational and economic aspects is presented in the Aide Memoire.
6. Critical analysis of the situation
The Project Concept Note and the Aide Memoire gives the impression that the situation has been well
analysed and is well understood based on previous experiences, discussions with several stakeholders, etc.
7. Activities
An appropriate and logical set of activities is proposed (The GEF supported Energy Conservation Fund;
marketing, outreach and education; technical assistance to the Vilnius District Heating Company). The
exact organisation and administration of the activities is yet to be determined. A very close link to, or (as
suggested) establishment at the district heating company is suitable.
8. National priorities and communitv participation
The project appears to be fully in line with national priorities and involves community participation in
various ways. The project. however, does not address the needs in rural areas.
9. Institutional arrangements
The exact final institutional alTangements are not determined in the proposal but reasonable suggestions
are made concerning the involvement of the district heating company, requirements on owrnership of
installations. etc. The involvement of local banks and other actors is not explicitly discussed in the Project
Concept Note but the Aide Memoire makes reference to the training of consultants and banks on servicing
the market. indicating that building a lasting institutional capacity will be an important part.
Project evaluation is mentioned but not specified. It would be valuable to involve local academic
institutions (the University of Vilnius) to facilitate local capacity building on this and various other
relevant aspects of the project. (To my knowledge, the (Technical?) University of Kaunas is stronger in
the area of energy and environment and may be a st-onger candidate).
10. Time frame
The time frame is reasonable although it may be slightly optimistic that 25% of the substations can be
converted in the first year.
11. Funding
The level of funding appears to be appropriate and there should be synergies from being linked to the
World Bank-led Vilnius District Heating Rehabilitation Project as well as the EEHPP.



The proposed sum (7.5 million UJSD) divided by 2,400 substations (=3.125 USD) is slightly higher than
what is indicated in Annex 2 (1,800 plus 900 USD from GEF in year 1-2 and 1,800 plus 450 USD in year
3-4). This is due to administrative costs?
There is no detail on how the unit abatement cost of -2.9 USD per ton of C02 was calculated.
Presumably the District Heating Rehabilitation project will include fuel switching if coal is the
predominant fuel?
Funding for marketing, outreach. and education is 2 million USD equivalent to more than 800 USD per
substation (2,400 substations), or 8% of cost of installation. The activities under this sub-component are
not detailed in the Project Concept Note and it is difficult to assess whether this funding allocation is
appropriate. Is evaluation included here also? In my view, the value and importance of evaluation (pre-,
during, and post-project) is often underestimated.
12. Innovative features/replicability
The project is innovative (technically and institutionally) from a Lithuanian perspective and should be
replicable in similar settings. In many cases the situation in each country/city may be quite unique in
many respects. Nevertheless, the project should provide valuable lessons-learned for future applications
(if not replications).
13. Sustainability
The risk that the Energy Conservation Fund does not reach cost-recovery is considered low in the
proposal. Various options for the exit strategy are mentioned, including the continued use of recovered
costs for other energy investments.
14. Development dimensions and rationale for GEF support
The project is consistent with the objectives of GEF operation programme 5 Renmoval of Barriers to
Energy Efficiency anid Energy Conservation through removing various barriers, including barriers to
future additional energy efficiency investments.
15. Additional comments or questions
It may be argued that the substation project (and certainly the "total" project including rehabilitation) is
concentrating on supply side improvements in the system although demand and customer orientation is
discussed. Nevertheless., upgrading the system and installing substations is important for energy
efficiency improvements through future demand-side measures.
With or without the project, the district heating company should be prepared for decreasing heat loads.
Through modemising the system and becoming a more customer oriented energy service provider the
company can be competitive and profitable in the future. Without the project, the company risks losing
(especially wealthy) customers, and energy service business to other actors. The possibility or likelihood
of decreasing heat loads should be an important concern also in the associated District Heat Rehabilitation
Project. Closing or moth-balling plants can be an altemative to rehabilitation and replacement if energy
efficiency investments are more cost-effective.
Page 4: "the current Vilnius District Heating project largely focuses on capacity building at the local level
through commercialisation of the district heating functions in Vilnius." What does this mean?
Response of the Project Team to the STAP Review
General comment



The STAP review was provided on the basis of the initial Project Concept Document (PCN) and the Aide
Memoire from the pre-appraisal mission in November 2000. The answers to the STAP review are given
on the basis of the current Project Brief (the draft Project Appraisal Document), in which many of the
concerns of the STAP reviewer have been addressed. The Annex numbering here refers to the numbers in
the current Project Brief.
1. The breakdown of components showing how much C02 is saved on each type of investment is given
in Annex 10 (incremental cost analysis).
2. no comment
3. Project Approach
Lessons learned from the EEHPP project showed an increased interest in energy efficiency after the initial
investment is implemented. A significant proportion of all investments included substation installation.
The types of investments that are eligible under the EEHPP and would be eligible under the proposed
ECF are: (i) modernization of the heat substation in the building, which typically includes replacement of
the heat elevator (ejector circulation pump) by an electric circulation pump, automatic temperature control
for space heating and domestic hot water, and heat exchangers for space heating and domestic hot water.
In addition, demand side investments include thermostatic radiator valves and heat cost allocators on the
radiators improvement of windows, staircase renovation, wall insulation and roof repair (if justified).
Re: "Combining or co-ordinating substation installations with energy efficiency improvements (without
which the installations may result mainly in reduced bills from lower comfort/indoor temperatures) can
improve customer acceptance." - the point is very valid, and the project team has used it in the project
design by offering window replacements and similar improvements on the customer's end as an
additional incentive for homeowners to accept the replacement of the substation early on in the program.
This measure is expected to contribute to higher market penetration of the substations.
4. Objectives
The market penetration is addressed in Annex 10 (incremental cost analysis summary).
5. Background and Justification
The project brief addresses technical aspects in Annex 2 and economic aspects in Annex 10.
6. No comment
7. Activities
More detail is provided in the Project Description in Section C. and terms of reference are provided in the
Project Implementation Plan. Operating manual for the Energy Conservation Fund, and terms of
reference for public relations and outreach are to be finalized by negotiations.
8. National priorities and community participation
The project addresses the needs of rural areas mainly by assisting VDHC with developing a strategy for
disconnecting nonviable sections of the network and installing altemative sources of heat supply in low
density areas mainly located in the periurban/rural areas.



9. Institutional arrangements
Institutional arrangements are addressed in Section E: Summary Project Analysis. As mentioned above,
the operating manual for the Energy Conservation Fund, and terms of reference for public relations and
outreach are to be finalized by negotiations.
10. Time frame
The target number for substation replacements in the first year may have to be revised by the time of
submission of the proposal for CEO endorsement. This is not going to change the results of the economic
analysis materially. The current assumption is that the full number of substation replacements will occur
by 2006, which is considered feasible.
11. Funding
The cost estimates for substation replacement given in Annex 2 of the initial Project Concept Note (PCN)
were preliminary. A more complete and accurate calculation summarized in Annex 10 of the current
project brief (the draft PAD) is now available. The economic cost per substation replacement, including a
physical contingency, is about $11,680. In addition, the administrative/transaction costs have been
estimated at about $1,500 per substation. For the financial calculation, the GEF-financed cost per
substation is a useful point of reference, but it should be kept in mind that the full picture of financial
flows involved in GEF's financing of the substation replacements through the Energy Conservation Fund
is more intricate and involves a different mode of calculation. The options presented in last November's
Aide Memoire as Options 1-4 are relevant in that respect.
Unit abatement costs are addressed in Annex 10 (incremental cost analysis).
Marketing, outreach and education is addressed more completely in Section C. Terms of reference would
be agreed with VDCH before negotiations.
12. Replicability
Lessons learned from the existing Energy Efficiency/Housing Pilot project are applied to the Energy
Conservation Fund implementing arrangements. If the project is successful, similar implementing
arrangements would be applicable in similar urban areas.
Monitoring and analysis would be included in the economic study and communications programs would
be required to have clearly defined, monitorable performance indicators. It is likely that a university or
academic institute would be involved in the economic analysis, provided that Bank procurement
guidelines would allow for this.
13. Sustainability
No comment.
14. Development dimensions and rationale for GEF support
No comment.
15. Additional Comments



Re: "the current Vilnius District Heating project largely focuses on capacity building at the local level
through commercialization of the district heating functions in Vilnius " what does this mean?
The project supports market-based initiatives that would enable the company to change to a more
consumer friendly culture from its current inward-looking posture. A significant portion of the technical
assistance provided will need to be provided by local consultants. The project would help to create value
also by strengthening the company's financial position in preparation for a planned introduction of a
private operator.



Annex 12: Environmental Management Plan
LITHUANIA: VILNIUS DISTRICT HEATING PROJECT
Al.   MITIGATION PLAN FOR CHP2 & CHP3, HOB UNITS RK-2,RK4,RK-6,RK-7,RK-8
Institutional
Responsibility
Phase               Issue                            Mitigating Measure                         Install/Operate
Construction  Dust & Noise             Dust: During the dry periods sprinkle with water        Chief of Constr. Dep.
Noise: Activities will take place during the daytime and shall  Mr. Nenastavicius
conform to noise ordinance and regulations. Workers will be
provided with ear protection
Disposal of solid materials  Disposal: Metal will be removed from the sites and deposited
-hazardous materials     at authorized dealers for recycle (specified in the bid
(asbestos, PCBs*)      documents).
-not hazardous materials    Hazardous materials will be handled by govemment
(metal scrap, concrete,   approved and licensed companies. Existing PCBs content
etc.                   should be clarified. If transformers are involved they will be
tested for PCBs. If found levels are higher than
EU/Lithuanian standards they will be handled according to
the standard requirements.
Operation     Emissions SO2, NOx,      NOx Low NOx bumers will be used                         Chief of Production
CO2                      S02  Use of oil with lower S content.                   Dep.
Water leakage            Extended maintenance measures as more frequent tightening   Mr. Udras
the joints, replacement of gaskets, etc.
Fuel leakage             Extended maintenance measures as above and arrangement of Chief of Maintenance
special collection devices points                       Dep. Mr. Abaravicius
Fuel spillage            Arrangement of spill prevention points, special collection  Mr. Dravnel
devices points, extended maintenance measures.          * CHP units VE-2 and
VE-3 only
Installation and operational costs are negligible.



A2. MITIGATION PLAN FOR SUBSTATIONS and PIPELINES
Reconstruction of Central Heat Substations and installation of new Individual Heat Substations
Replacement of underground and above the ground pipes
Institutional
Responsibility
Phase            Issue                               Mitigating Measure                          Install/Operate
Construction  Dust & Noise         Dust: During the dry periods sprinkle with water              Chief of Constr. Dep.
Noise: Activities will take place during the daytime and shall  Mr. Nenastavicius
conform to noise ordinance and regulations. Workers will be
provided with ear protection. Activities regarding track movements,
transportation ways will be properly planned. avoiding schools,
kindergartens, etc.
Disposal of solid    Disposal: Metal will be removed from the sites and deposited at
materials            authorized dealers for recycle (specified in the bid documents).
-hazardous materials    Concrete and other scrap material will be removed to approved
(asbestos )        deposits.
-not hazardous       Removing of asbestos insulation materials will be handled by
materials (metal   govemment approved and licensed companies. The production of
scrap, concrete, etc.  new pipe insulation will be in accordance with Lithuania's
commitments under the Montreal Protocol and the requirements
specified in bid documents.
See Report no 12 "Environmental review".
Operation    Water leakage         Extended maintenance measures                                 Chief of Maintenance
Dep.
Mr. Abaravicius
Mr. Dravnel
Installation and operational costs are negligible.



B1. MONITORING PLAN for CHP2 & CHP3, HOB UNITS RK-2, RK-4, RK-6, RK-8
Responsibility
Phase      What              Where             How               When              Why               Install/Operate
parameter is to   is the parameter  is the parameter  is the parameter   Is the parameter
be monitored?    to be monitored?  to be monitored/  to be monitored - to be monitored
type of           frequency of      (optional)?
monitoring        measurement or
equipment?        continuous?
Construct  Dust              At the            Visually          Dry periods daily                   Chief of
construction area                   basis                               Construction Dep.
Mr. Nenartavicius
Noise             Near the living   Noise meters      During
area                                construction
activities; when
local residents
issue complaints
Disposal of non    At the           Monitoring the    Each month
hazardous         construction areas  tender documents
materials                           requirements
Disposal of      At the             Measuring the     When it requires,
hazardous         construction      PCB content.      not less than once
materials and     areas, deposits,    Monitoring the  a month
PCBs*            dealers            tender documents
requirements if
any PCB is found.
Following up the
contract
requirements.
Double check the
license
Operate    S02               In the stack      S02 -             Once a week                         Chief of
multifunction                                         Technical
chemical gas      Continuous                          Production Dep.
analyzer in all                                       Mr. Janauskas
plants except in                                      * CHP units VE-2
CHP3 &RK-8                                            and VE-3 only
where stationary
measuring
NOx               In the stack      equipment with    Daily basis
computerized
monitoring and
statistics is used,
measuring of
change of fuel
composition.
Water & Fuel     Fuel storage       NOx -             Daily basis
spillage         plants, water      multifunction
treatment plants,   chemical gas
production plants  analyzer in all
plants, following



up the contract
requirements for
low NOx burners.
Visually,
measurements on
water and fuel
amounts in the
system.
Installation and operational costs are negligible.



B2. MONITORING PLAN for SUBSTATIONS and PIPELINES
Responsibility
Phase      What              Where             How               When               Why               InstalUOperate
parameter is to   is the parameter  is the parameter  is the parameter   Is the parameter
be monitored?    to be monitored?  to be monitored/  to be monitored   to be monitored
type of           - frequency of    (optional)?
monitoring        measurement or
equipment?        continuous?
Construct  Dust              At the            Visually           Dry periods daily                   Chief of
construction and                    basis                                Construction Dep.
demolishing areas                                                        Mr. Nenartavicius
Noise             Near the living   Noise meters      During
area, schools,                      construction and
hospitals,                          demolishing
kindergartens,                      activities; when
etc.                                local residents
issue complaints
Disposal of non    At the           Monitoring the    Each month
hazardous         construction and   tender documents
materials         demolishing       requirements
(concrete, metal   areas, central heat
scrap, etc.      substations,
replacement of
pipes areas
Disposal of       At the            Monitoring the    When it requires,
hazardous         construction and   tender documents  not 1ess than once
materials         demolishing       and following up   a month
(asbestos)        areas, deposits,   the contract
dealers           requirements.
Double check the
license
Operate    Water spillage    Central and       Visually,          Daily basis                         Chief of
Individual        measurements on                                       Technical
substations,      water amount in                                        Production Dep.
pipelines in     the system.                                             Mr. Janauskas
tunnels and ducts.
Installation and operational costs are negligible.
C. INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING for CHPs, HOB units, Substations and Pipelines
1.      Equipment Purchases (Tabular Presentation Preferred)
No new additional instruments and/or meters are intended to be purchased within the project.
2.      Training/Study Tours
Training will be set up for operators and other specialists if the monitoring equipment and instruments will be
replaced. Duration of the training will be according to recommendation and requirements from the supplier.
Training of appropriate staff will be performed to inform and learn about handling of asbestos waste and if required
of PCB in order to manage correct purchasing and monitoring of the contracts works.



3.     Consultant Services
No consultants are planned to be involved in the environmental institutional strengthening.
D. SCHEDULE
The activities are identified in the Project Implementation Plan.
E. INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS for CHPs, HOB units, Substations and Pipelines
Collection of data:  RK-8 & CHP-3 - Computerized supervision system for collection, storage, handling of data
as charts, statistics, historical value, etc.
Other plants - Data is collected by operational staff once a week at each boiler plant or
during unusual situations process if required.
Analyze of data:    Analysis of data is performed by the chief of production plants by visual review and check
of collected data. Data is filed in the operational register.
Reporting:         Normal procedure is that the report with filed operational data is sent to the Production
Department once a month. If the data diverge from the ordinary, the report immediately is
sent to the chief of Technical Department for appropriate measures.
Decisions:         The decision to take action, to authorize expenditures, to shut down etc. is performed by the
Technical Director.



Silumas Calttmis                                                     .     ''       .,,
Heat Sow Ic-e                       .                           
Magistralintai r;Iunnos tinklai                                                 Jr
Main Network                                                                  Ij* ..   ! ..
Gyvenamnieji nama
Apartment Houses                              a'
Gydymo istaigos
Hospitais
Mokyklines, ikimokykInes Ista.gos
Schools and Ynde-ganmei.,:
incustry                         _                       -Ateities RK                       U        I.                   ..
Administ-acinia' ir kt. pastatal     5'
Public Buiidrngs                                    -                -
Gatves                                                            U- 
Sireets                            ,j
; X r - - Z en~~~~~~~~ska
ii , 1 A. Paner    RK    ,,#l*;Vilne
5     bb  8 C'   --  - -    w                         --    ,   x Kirtim4 RK                          kfai64 R
ii  - ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~-
%   A. PaneriLj RK
>   w                         .              ~~~~~~~~~~~~N.Vilnios ralonas - 
,~~~~~~.ino , 'K
N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~
If~~~    * ~ ~






IBRD 26177
TO Soldos,j                         To R;go  L A T V I A
To Rig.                                                      KILOMETERS
Nicai                          I                                                                                                       0  10c    20  30    oC4    50
Lake                   Mcue&WiNuai   \                 '.j,-                                                                                            
T@. rO                                                                                                                                      "I            30,i    f  Akrnene  .  20
epsj)  5 &;xi^  ,  /  .   Plrzci,  t                   MILES
Baltic             ,7                                                /-*,._
S Palangsa                                    Ku e=  =                                                                              D/Pandelys A-,>
^ ||| 1 L >,;+U~~~~~~~~~~~~UAI..
KLWPEDA   t    Gtd                                                                                                                           \    j \Douovop.Is
CAykRciai
q)-                  BELARUS
N,~~~~~~~~
t iU                              ~~~~~~~~      ~       ~     ~~                  ~~Jurbarkas.    k e,'  ,>                  0
logoon v_8.\~t> .., 
FEDERAT N                                                              E                                                             L I T H U A N I A
Too5KaMAIN-OADSd
LITHUi8ANIA>eA BELA UEONS
SWEDEN                          FED.                                 1>L                                                                   -"-i -     RANKROADS             150
* 3  POLAND  )  BELARUS                       1DrnT                                                                         MIROD,S B
i 2   r                                                                                                                          AUG2ST 199'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OJJT19



