Report No. PID8623
Project Name                     LITHUANIA-Vilnius Heat Demand Management (@)
GEF Project
Region                           Europe and Central Asia Region
Sector                           District heating and energy efficiency services (100%)
Project ID                       P073242
Borrower(s)                      VILNIAUS ENERGIJA, VILNIUS MUNICIPALITY
Implementing Agency
Address VILNIAUS ENERGIJA, VILNIUS MUNICIPALITY
Address: Smolensko 12, LT-2600 Vilnius, Lithuania
Contact Person: Mr. Jean Sacreste
Tel: (+370 5) 213-1388
Fax: (+370 5) 213-0702
Email: info@dalkia.lt
VILNIUS CITY MUNICIPALITY
Address: Gedimino av. 9, LT-2600,
Vilnius, Lithuania
Contact Person: Mr. Vygintas Jakas
Tel: (+370 5) 212 73 66
Fax: (+370 5) 212 61 23
Environment Category             B
Date PID Prepared                March 11, 2003
Auth Appr/Negs Date              December 1, 2000
Bank Approval Date               June 12, 2003
1. Country and Sector Background
The strategic development of the energy sector is largely driven by
Lithuania's desire to accelerate its EU Accession program, requiring a
liberalization of the gas and electricity markets. Government policy in
the energy sector emphasizes economic pricing, the fostering of
competitive markets and the commercialization of energy companies, in
order to achieve both reliable supply and economy in the use of energy
resources. Within this policy envelope, the district heating (DH)
sub-sector has long been a source of concern since meeting district
heating losses has been the largest single element of fiscal support to
the energy sector. District heat prices have, until recently, not been
cost-based. At the same time, the costs of supply have been unnecessarily
high due to losses. In Vilnius, as much as 28% of heat produced by the
district heating company is lost in the heat distribution network. The
economic and environmental gains to be achieved through network
modernization are massive.
Vilnius, which is Lithuania's capital and largest city, has a population
of 579,000, and a residential housing stock of 5,700 buildings, of which
85% are supplied with heat from the district heating system.    The average
year-round outdoor temperature is 6.4 degrees Celsius, making heat supply
an essential service. However, the quality of district heating services in



Vilnius has long needed substantial improvement. As in many other cities
of the former Soviet Union, consumers, dissatisfied with the service
provided by the district heating utility, have been turning to alternative
forms of heat which are in many cases less desirable from the point of
view of the national economy and the environment.
Heat consumption in Vilnius' buildings is also high by western standards
for similar climates. The outdated housing stock provides opportunities
for substantial energy efficiency improvements through measures such as
better insulation, introduction of thermostatic valves and heat meters in
apartments. The potentially high economic returns, however, do not
guarantee that these measures will be delivered due to a number of
barriers. To achieve the full set of desired improvements requires active
promotion, attractive financing, and direct incentives to some customers.
All but 7t of residences are privately owned. Legislation enacted during
2000 provides for the establishment of Home Owners' Associations (HOAs) in
each apartment building or, in default of the establishment of such an
association, the appointment of an Administrator by the Municipality to
represent the residents. There are about 176,000 family apartments in
Vilnius, of which some 50,000 belong to families organized into HOAs.
Heat meters at the building level have been installed in virtually all
residential buildings by 1999, which has allowed the Vilnius District
Heating Company (VDHC) to switch to billing for heat based on metered
data. The HOAs are the only group of heat consumers that are allowed to
self-manage the heat supply to their buildings, however, the current
technology seldom allows for customer-controlled operation. For the rest
of the customers, the company maintains heat supply contracts on a
family-by-family basis. At the apartment level, heat meters are typically
not available.
In recent years, VDHC sought support from the Municipality for the
replacement of central heat exchanger substations ("block substations")
with building-level substations (BLS). Under a recent VDHC initiative, the
Vilnius City Council approved a raise in the fixed cost component of the
heat tariff to cover VDHC's losses in the domestic hot water (DHW)
network. This increase resulted in a net increase in the heating bill for
about 609 of the DH customers (i.e., all customers currently served from
block substations). Simultaneously, a 5t discount on the tariff was given
to those households whose hot water is prepared inside the building, which
is the case only when the building has a BLS. This has set the stage for
replacement of block substations with BLS. With the introduction of BLS,
the heat bill will be based on the full cost of heat supply incorporating
the metered amount of heat used for DHW preparation. Thus, the majority of
customers risk facing higher heating bills, unless energy efficiency
measures at the consumer level (including in the apartments) are also
implemented.
In 2001, the Municipality conducted a tender for a 15-year lease of VDHC
to a private operator, in an effort to bring the company to profitable
operation. In November 2001, the French company Dalkia won the tender for
the lease. The new management of VDHC, Vilniaus Energija (VE), owned by
Dalkia, officially took charge of VDHC's operations on April 1, 2002.
Under the lease agreement with the Municipality, most of the VDHC staff
-2 -



has been transferred to VE. VDHC continues to own the assets.
2. Objectives
VE's investment program
Vilniaus Energija (VE) is undertaking a long-term investment program aimed
at modernizing the district heating system through a fundamental design
change to the district heating network and introduction of new equipment.
First and foremost, investments will be made in substation network
decentralization designed to reduce losses and improve the quality of
district heat supply. This includes such a fundamental feature of modern
district heating technology as temperature control by the consumer. Such
investments would reduce the cost of heat supply as well as fuel usage and
emissions of greenhouse gases to the atmosphere. In the long run, the
program will yield fiscal benefits to the Government by increasing the
taxable profits of VE and by reducing the number of households which
require the heat and hot water subsidies. Since the commercial viability
of the district heating company will be improved, privatization of the
VDHC assets may become possible in the future. The main components of VE's
investment program are:
Substation modernization including the replacement of all block
substations with building-level substations in residential buildings;
New connections and network development;
Replacement of part of the network;
Rehabilitation of the HOBs;
Construction of a gas pipe interconnecting CHP-2 and CHP-3;
The rehabilitation of CHP-3 and the district heating pumping station at
CHP-2.
Moreover, VE would like to become part of the emerging energy efficiency
market by launching a new activity directly at the customer's level - an
Energy Efficiency Pilot Program which would consist of apartment-level
demand-side management (AL DSM) measures. To facilitate the implementation
of the program, VE has set aside an Energy Efficiency Fund (EEF) under the
lease agreement with the Municipality and is prepared to contribute LTL 20
million (about US $6 million) into a GEF-supported energy efficiency
program and to pursue a further expansion of the program beyond the pilot
phase.
The Vilnius City Municipality (VCM) has expressed a strong interest in
implementing building-envelope improvements of the residential housing
stock of the City. In combination with VE's energy efficiency program for
the heating system, VCM's initiative allows to implement a comprehensive
heat demand management program in the City of Vilnius.
The GEF Project would support and supplement the programs pursued by both
VE and VCM. Under the Project, the GEF would contribute US$ 9.Om to the
establishment of a broader and more sustainable program to support the
installation of energy efficiency equipment in residential buildings of
Vilnius and engage VE and the VCM in the development of a market for
energy efficiency products.
Project Objectives
The GEF project's objective is to reduce the emissions of greenhouse gases
(GHG) from the Vilnius District Heating System through a targeted effort
-3 -



to remove the existing barriers to energy conservation. This would be
achieved by means of introducing demand-side management (DSM) measures
such as thermostatically controlled radiator valves and heat meters in
Vilnius households, as well as building-envelope improvements to reduce
energy losses from the residential housing stock. Besides direct emission
reductions from these measures, additional benefits are hoped to be
achieved through avoided disconnections from the district heating system
and possibly through accelerated implementation of VE's core program of
modernizing the heat exchanger substation network.
The downstream benefits may also be substantial. Part of the long-term
agenda for GEF is to stimulate the creation of a market of DSM equipment
in Lithuania so that, at the time when the initial seed money from GEF and
EEF is spent, the ECP would continue on a largely commercial basis
(although the need for targeted government support to the poor households
is likely to remain). Achieving commercial viability of ECP would
demonstrate its replicability. A powerful demonstration effect is expected
from the implementation of the concept of a demand-side management program
in the district heating sector, with the heat supplier itself playing an
active part in supporting the demand-side conservation measures.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The primary value of the Bank's involvement with the heating industry in
Vilnius has been to ensure that the project is consistent with the broader
economic reform agenda, to help focus the project and to ensure that
issues of affordability and financial viability are adequately addressed.
The early project preparation effort focused on improving the legal and
regulatory (particularly pricing) framework and enabling a fair
competitive environment among energy suppliers.
The Bank team has also helped the Vilnius Municipality to develop a
program to make the district heating company financially viable without
state support. Vinliaus Energija's investment program is largely following
the same path with the notable addition of the DSM component. The latter
is now supported by the Bank through GEF, which is well placed to
introduce an environmental dimension into the decision making of a major
Lithuanian energy utility.
4. Description
The main components of the Vilnius Heat Demand Management GEF Project are
as follows.
A. Substation Modernization
B. Apartment-level DSM (Subsidy Fund)
C. ECP Commercial Fund
D. ECP Commercial Fund Management Contract
E. Administration of ECP by the Municipality
F. Market Analysis
G. Monitoring and Evaluation of Global Benefits
Components A and B are implemented by VE, while Components C-G are
implemented by the Vilnius City Municipality. Components B-G constitute
the GEF-supported Energy Conservation Program (ECP).
The Substation Modernization (Component A) - US$ 16.5m. This component is
part of VE's investment program and it consists of substation
- 4 -



modernization including the replacement of all block substations with
building-level substations (BLS) in residential buildings. VE plans to
install about 1,500 building-level substations over the next four or five
years in buildings currently served from block substations. The
implementation of this component is of utmost importance to the
transformation of the Vilnius DH system into a modern, customer friendly,
and energy efficient system. Modern BLS technology also an essential
prerequisite for the technical feasibility of the demand-side management
measures at the apartment and building level and thus ties in most closely
with the GEF-supported ECP.
Energy Conservation Program
Apartment-Level Demand-Side Management (AL DSM) investments - US$ 8.5m -
is represented by Component B. The AL DSM program would be a 5-year
program, and it would cover some 500-600 apartment buildings in Vilnius,
with the possibility of expanding the program to another similar number of
buildings in the following years. The AL DSM measures would include the
supply and installation services for thermostatic valves and cost
allocators on room radiators, and balancing valves for the risers
connecting the substation to the radiators. The GEF will participate in
this component by financing a $2.5m "subsidy fund" (to be disbursed in two
tranches of $1.25m each, the second tranche being contingent on the
availability of a provision of co-financing for the expansion of the
program by VE). The subsidy fund will allow VE to forgive the low-income
inhabitants of the 500-600 buildings all or most of the cost of the
downpayment on the AL DSM equipment. During the years of the GEF project
duration (2003-2007), the co-financing by VE is expected to equal at least
LTL 20 million (roughly $6 million).
ECP Commercial Fund - US$ 5m - is represented by Component C. This
component would capitalize a revolving fund (run by a firm contracted by
the Municipality - see the ECP Management component below) through a $5m
worth of energy efficiency (demand-side management) investments during the
years of the GEF project implementation (2003-2007). The fund would
operate on a financially sustainable basis and would be used in perpetuity
for similar energy efficiency investments. The Municipality envisages that
most of the investments will be made in the building-envelope improvements
(including window replacement). However, the final decision on the type of
the investments made by the Commercial Fund will be made upon the
completion of the tender for the operation of the fund under the ECP
Management Contract. The intent is to solicit the most effective and
innovative proposals (business plans) from the firms competing for the
Contract.
The ECP Management Contract - $0.6m - would be an essential component of
the Project which would create an institutional and operational basis for
the energy efficiency investment program pursued by the Municipality. A
commercial entity (consulting firm - preferably, with credentials of an
ESCO) would be selected by the Vilnius Municipality through a competitive
tender. Under the contract with the Municipality, the firm would implement
the business plan that it will have developed for the tender. The
responsibilities under the business plan will include the operation of the
ECP Commercial Fund on a financially sustainable basis through profitable
investments in energy efficiency in the residential sector.
- 5 -



Administration of ECP by the Municipality - up to $ 0.4m - would cover the
incremental operating costs to Vilnius Municipality associated with the
management of ECP during the five years of GEF project implementation. The
eligible expenses would include contractual staff, office supplies,
transportation, advertising, marketing, public relations and other public
outreach efforts as well as financial audits and training for financial
staff.
Market Analysis - $0.3m - would estimate the market penetrations feasible
for different levels of capital subsidy to for various energy efficiency
investments. The study would be conducted using a multi-perspective
financial and economic analysis (from the utility's, customer's, societal,
and global environmental perspectives) of implementing demand-side energy
conservation measures. Such an analysis would seek to demonstrate that
demand-side energy conservation can benefit not only the consumer, but
also the municipality and the district heating utility. The results of the
analysis would be aimed at convincing the district heat suppliers and
consumers elsewhere that participation in demand-side conservation
measures pays off and needs to be supported.
Monitoring & Evaluation of Global Environmental Benefits and Information
Dissemination for Replication - $0.2m. The monitoring and evaluation of
the achievement of the global environmental objective would focus on
quantifying the GHG savings associated with energy savings and the
performance of ECP. The M&E would include a mid-term review (planned for
June 2005), which would place a special emphasis on the performance of the
ECP from the perspective of GHG reduction impact as well as market
penetration and financial sustainability of the Commercial Fund.
In addition to the M&E of GHG reductions and the ECP performance, this
component would include information dissemination activities aimed to
realize the Project's replication potential to the maximum. Lithuania
would be the initial target area for replication, where the information
dissemination can be facilitated through the several existing Energy
Efficiency Advisory Centers. Replication outside Lithuania would be
achieved through disseminating the information through the existing
networks of experts and agencies engaged in energy efficiency projects -
e.g., the network of energy efficiency demonstration zones established
within the framework of the Energy Efficiency 21 program of the United
Nations Economic Commission for Europe (UNECE), which is coordinating
activities among similar zones throughout Eastern Europe and the former
Soviet Union. It is expected that both the Marketing Department of VE and
the Vilnius City Municipality will be closely involved in the
implementation of this component, contributing substantially to the
efforts of the consultant that would be engaged.
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
BORROWER/RECIPIENT               $22.50
IBRD
IDA
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY      $9.00
Total Project Cost               $31.50
6. Implementation
-6-



Certain parts of the GEF grant would be extended both to VE and the VCM.
The implementation responsibility for each component is specified in
Section 4 above. The management responsibility for the VE-implemented
components will be mainly with the existing staff of VE. The VE department
of Marketing and Business Development will play a key role. The
Municipality, on the other hand, will use the assistance of several
consulting firms to operate the Commercial Fund and to implement the
analytical and supervisory components of the ECP. The technical
assistance components would have a total budget of $1.5m. The remaining
$7.5m, earmarked for energy conservation investments, will be split
between a $5m commercial fund and a $2.5m subsidy fund, managed by VCM and
VE, respectively.
The commercial fund - a revolving fund supported by repayments from
customers for energy efficiency investments - would be capitalized through
the purchase and installation of a $5m worth of energy efficiency
equipment and would be used in perpetuity for subsequent energy efficiency
investments.
The $2.5m subsidy fund would be used as an incremental grant from the GEF.
At least half of it would consist of a lump-sum subsidy to low-income
families to reduce the affordability barrier for making the downpayment
for the AL DSM equipment, and one-half of the subsidy fund would be used
as a contingent grant, released only if conditions for the expansion of
the program are met by VE.
The public oversight of the VE operations would be conducted through an
ECP Coordination Committee - a special sub-committee of the VE Supervisory
Board established in accordance with the Charter of VE. The Committee
would comprise representatives of the Vilnius City Municipality (2
representatives incl. Chairperson), World Bank (1 representative,
non-voting), and VE (1 representative).
Financing Plan
The total project cost (including the substation modernization component)
is estimated at $31.5 million. VE is expected to fund about $22.5 million
of project costs from its internal resources and commercial bank
borrowings. The GEF is requested to provide $9.0 million. Of this, $7.5
million would be used to help fund AL DSM measures through the Energy
Conservation Program. The remaining $1.5 million would finance the
institutional components including M&E of global environmental benefits,
information dissemination directed at replication, the ECP Management
Contract, and incremental operating costs of ECP administration by the
Municipality.
7. Sustainability
The long-term sustainability of VE's demand-side management program would
be ensured through the creation of the ECP and specifically the commercial
fund ($5 million) that would operate on a revolving basis. The
sustainability of the commercial fund would depend on its default rate and
terms on which the DSM measures will be offered to the homeowners.
Under the VE-implemented AL DSM component, public outreach and
dissemination of results during and after the pilot phase will help VE
- 7 -



strengthen the supplier-customer relations and consolidate the customer
base. This may, in turn, accelerate the substation modernization program
pursued by VE. As the new substations would enable the installation of AL
DSM measures, it is expected that demand for these measures in residential
buildings would be generated, thus completing the virtuous circle. The
overall scheme is intended to "push" the market early on and then allow a
transition to a commercial market as both the technical possibility and
the incentives would be in place for both the homeowners and emerging
ESCOs to implement further energy saving investments in buildings equipped
with modern building-level substations. The project is expected to provide
a sufficient impetus to the AL DSM market to bring the costs of the
equipment down through creating more buyers and suppliers. Eventually,
this will reduce the costs, alleviating the up-front cost barrier for many
potential buyers of AL DSM equipment.
Sustainability of the targeted subsidy for low-income homeowners depends
on policy reform and the ability and willingness of the Government to
continue to provide support for energy efficiency to targeted segments of
the population. The studies conducted within the project will assist the
Government to develop income-based subsidy policies for energy
efficiency. These studies would be expected to lead to the Government's
taking over the contributions to the subsidy fund, based on the fund's
demonstrated ability to reduce the need for heat-consumption subsidies for
low-income households. Specifically, it will be demonstrated that
well-targeted subsidies aimed at energy efficiency investments -
particularly, those increasing access to consumer-controlled technology
(such as thermostatic valves in apartments, etc.) are preferable to the
continuation of the existing policy of compensating households for the
recurring and often unnecessarily high costs of heat consumption. It is
envisaged that the Government (rather than the GEF) would be the source of
such investment subsidies once the subsidy account of the ECP is fully
disbursed. Low-income households would still remain the primary target
group for the supports, but the fundamental basis for the subsidies would
change. Rather than just being subsidies for the poor to afford district
heating per se, they would become incentives for energy efficiency
investments, eventually benefiting both the consumer and the Government.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
The Bank's District Heating Projects in other countries have been, to a
large extent, successful. Targets for reductions in energy consumption
and system improvements have been achieved, or exceeded, giving confidence
in the project design. Experience from Poland shows that conversion of a
district heating system from constant to variable flow can be performed
with good results, and without major operational problems. Any problems
that have arisen were typically associated with instances when the project
design has exceeded the implementation capacity of the borrower. The
currently pursued self-standing GEF operation has a modest size and can be
handled by the VE and VCM staff adequately.
Heat demand forecasts have been too high in some of the past projects,
many of which were designed at the beginning of the economic transition
and making it difficult to anticipate the breadth and depth of market
collapse. A social assessment undertaken during project preparation has
helped deal with this issue by taking into account the limitations on
affordability. As a result, the demand forecast for this project has been
- 8 -



lowered and is believed to be realistic.
Another essential lesson is that, by optimizing the district heating cycle
from production to consumption, considerable energy savings can be
achieved. Data collection from networks and customer plants results in
more efficient operation for the producer and better service for the
consumer. The application of remote metering integrated with an
administrative system for debiting results in a powerful comprehensive
approach to district heating.
In the housing infrastructure sector, the Bank's Energy Efficiency and
Housing Pilot (EEHP) Project in Lithuania was particularly helpful in
guiding the design of the Energy Conservation Program. The EEHP project
helped design the incentives, the implementation plan and helped determine
project costs and benefits and market penetration. Some of the key lessons
learned suggest that a focus on efficiency improvements in consumer
substations has provided the highest economic and environmental benefits.
The project's experience in substation replacement and DSM programs
consists of the following. The EEHP established five Regional Advisory
Centers that have institutional knowledge and have gained valuable
experience in working with residential apartment owners in major
municipalities, including Vilnius. The EEHP includes a modest component
for funding building-level substations and energy-efficient renovation in
residential buildings. The project focused on institutional reform such as
the establishment of HOAs and the promotion of private sector
participation in the financing and supply of renovation services. The
project languished until the Government grant financed 30 % of the costs.
Under the current proposal, the mechanism of a partial subsidy is also
used (under the VE-implemented component).
The EEHP project has also demonstrated that homeowners are able and
willing to invest in energy retrofitting in their buildings if provided
with a support package addressing legal, institutional, technical and
financial barriers. However, obtaining a permission from the homeowners is
time-consuming when the decisions concern building-level improvements
since this must be taken by a formal meeting of homeowners of each
building. The EEHP demonstrated that significant educational and advisory
support is required to bring homeowners to the decision making point. VE's
energy efficiency program supported through ECP will focus on
apartment-level improvements, and the decisions will be made on a
family-by-family basis. Under the VCM-administered component, VCM would
engage consultants to conduct economic analysis of the effectiveness of
barrier removal efforts and proposed solutions to market penetration.
Valuable lessons are also available from the experience of Dalkia, the
mother company of Vilniaus Energija. Dalkia is present in 30 countries and
has 37,000 employees. Its business is to provide energy management
services for industry, commercial customers, and large community
facilities. Dalkia operates heating systems and has a long experience with
Energy Service Companies (ESCOs). Under long-term contracts, the ESCO
introduces efficiency measures to reduce energy costs. The savings are
shared between the ESCO and the client. In Poland, Dalkia has taken over
DH operations in several towns. After network modernization, the tariff
remains the same, and savings are used to pay back the investment. In
partnership with EBRD, Dalkia International, a leading multinational
-9-



energy company, has made a commitment of 100 million to raise energy
efficiency. The investment aims to support Dalkia's work in Hungary,
Lithuania, Poland, Romania and the Slovak Republic, and to help it expand
to other countries such as Bulgaria, Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, and
Russia. Dalkia has already created ESCOs that operate district heating
networks for municipalities and reduce energy consumption in buildings or
facilities. The EBRD has already invested 50 million in projects
developed by Dalkia over the past five years, resulting, for example, in
success for the MSW Hospital in Krakow, Poland, which was able to cut its
energy bill by 38 per cent.
9. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues     :  The project is not expected to receive any IBRD or
GEF financing for investments in the generation, transmission, or
distribution facilities of the district heating system. These components,
including the replacement of all block substations with building-level
substations in residential buildings, have been absorbed by VE's own
investment program. The Environmental Management Plan developed for these
components earlier with the Bank's assistance is available to the public
through the Bank's InfoShop.
The current GEF project deals with investments at the apartment and
building level, including supply and installation services for
thermostatic valves and cost allocators on room radiators, and balancing
valves for the risers connecting the substation to the radiators. Under
the Municipality-implemented component, the measures will include
building-envelope improvements such as installation of better insulation,
new windows, etc. These improvements will take place inside the
residential buildings, and their environmental impact will be negligible.
The apartment owners and their associations (where available) will be the
main stakeholders.
The GEF support to the project is due to its substantial greenhouse gas
(C02) emission reduction benefits. Lithuania ratified the Kyoto Protocol
of the UNFCCC on 21 September 1998 joining many other members of the
international community to curb carbon dioxide emissions to the
environment. Under the Kyoto Protocol, the three Baltic states are obliged
to reduce their GHG emissions by 8? from the 1990 level. Projects like
this one are essential for helping Lithuania meet this target.
The project is in full compliance with all environmental requirements of
the Government of Lithuania, Vilnius City Municipality, World Bank
policies and procedures (OP/BP/GP 4.01: Environmental Assessment),
appropriate EU Directives concerning the environmental performance of
boilers, and the Government of Lithuania's international commitments under
the Montreal Protocol concerning Depletion of the Ozone Layer.
10. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Victor B. Loksha
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: (+1-202) 473-5807
- 10 -



Fax:   (+1-202) 614-0692
11. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending March 14, 2003.
- 11 -



