Document of
The World Bank
FILE COP7v
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 1714b-GUA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THE BLACK BUSH IRRIGATION PROJECT
GUYANA
May 19, 1978
Projects Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit  =  Guyana Dollar (G$)
G$ 1.00        =  US$0.39
G$ 1.0 million = US$390,000
US$1.00 = G$ 2.55 at time of appraisal and
as used in this report.
MEASURES
ac     -  acre (43,560 square feet)
acft   -  acre foot (43,560 cubic feet)
bag    -  bag of paddy rice (140 pounds) or milled rice (180 pounds)
cusec  -  cubic feet per second (1 cusec = 2 acft in 24 hours)
cuyd   -  cubic yard (1 cuyd = 27 cubic feet)
ha     -  hectare (1 ha = 10,000 square meters = 2.47 ac)
mi     -  mile (5,280 feet)
msl    -  mean sea level (average tide level)
sq mi  -  square mile (640 acres)
ton    -  long ton (2,240 pounds)
ABBREVIATIONS
AGBANK       -  Agricultural Cooperative Development Bank
CARICOM      -  Caribbean Common Market
D & I Board  -  Drainage and Irrigation Board
GMC          -  Guyana Marketing Corporation
GRB          -  Guyana Rice Board
GUYSUCO      -  Guyana Sugar Company
IRRI         -  International Rice Research Institute
LDD          -  Land Development Division
MAG          -  Ministry of Agriculture
MARDS        -  Mahaicony Abary Rice Development Station
GOVERNMENT OF GUYANA
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
GUYANA
APPRAISAL OF THE BLACK BUSH IRRIGATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
I.   INTRODUCTION  .............................................. o......           I
II.    THE PROJECT AREAS  . ................................. .                      2
Description of the Project Areas                  ...............      2
Present Land Use and Production  ...               .............       5
Population,  Employment and Land Tenure  .........                     6
Agricultural Credit  ............................                      8
Future Credit Needs for Rice Production  ........                      9
Institutional Participation                  ....................     10
Soils and Land Classification  .....             .............        10
Soil Drainage  ................        ..     ................        12
Rice Production and Processing ....... .    .... ..                   12
Water Supply and Requirements   ........    ..........                15
Water Rights  ......... 6............... .........................    15
Water Quality  ..................................                     16
III.    THE PROJECT COMPONENTS  ........ .. . .. . .  ..............   . ...   .......  .... .    16
General Scope and Purpose of the Project  ..                ........   16
Project Works  .....................................    17
Project Headquarters and Operation and Maintenance.    18
Drying and Storage Facilities  .......... ...........    18
Applied Research Program .......            ...................    18
Extension Service and Training Program ............    18
Seed Production and Testing Program ....... ........    19
Consultant Services  ........    ........................    19
Farm Machinery  ....................................    20
Project Preparation Facility Advance                  ..............    20
Environmental Evaluation  .......             ...................    20
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited Guyana
in March-April 1977. This mission comprised Messrs. W.A. Lucas (Consultant);
and G. Soto, A. Cornejo, M. Fireman, P. Aklilu (Young Professional) of the Bank;
and R.S. Baskett (Consultant).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
Page No.
IV.     PROJECT  COSTS AND  FINANCING  ............................                              21
Cost  Estimates  . .................... ..   ...  ...   ........                 21
Finiancing  ..............................                                       21
Procurement  .......................................                             23
Disbursements  .....................................                             25
Accounts  and Audits  .... .....  . ....                ......... ... .          25
V.     ORGANIZATION  AND MANAGEMENT  ...............                    o  ............         26
Project  Organization  .................                 o .... ........         26
Project  Implementation  ......  .....................                           29
Participation  of  Other Agencies  ...................                           29
Project  Monitoring  ................................                            30
VI.     AGRICULTURAL  PRODUCTION  AND  FARM  BUDGETS  .......                       ........     30
Areas  Cultivated  and  Cropping  Patterns  ...... ......                        30
Crop  Yields  .......................................                            31
Production  Costs  ..................................                            32
Production  Features  in  the  Project  .............                  ...       33
Production  and Value  ..............................                            35
Farm Budgets  ...                   ..........................  . ....... .      36
VII.      MARKETS, MARKETING AND  PRICES  ..........................                               37
Market  Situation  .............. .. ..   ......     ....... .                   37
Prices  ..........   o             .................................             39
VIII.      FINANCIAL  ANALYSIS  .....................................                               41
Financial Management  of GRB  .....                      ..................      41
Producer  Benefits  ..                   ...............................         42
Cost  Recovery  ...............            . ... . ...................           43
IX.     ECONOMIC  ANALYSIS  ................                ..        ..................         45
Project  Benefits  ...............             ..       .................       45
Project  Costs  ................            ..       ...................        46
Economic Rate of  Return  ...........................                           46
X.     SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS  REACHED  AND  RECOMMENDATION  .......                            47



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
Page No.
ANNEX I - Related Documents and Data Available in
Project  File  .......................................... ..... ..  50
ANNEX 2 - Water Requirements and Water Supply ..........*.     51
ANNEX 3 - Project Costs, Expenditure Schedule, Local Staff
Requirements, Equipment List, Consultant Services,
and Schedule of Disbursements ....   .............   56
ANNEX 4 - Organization Chart and Construction Schedule ..      65
ANNEX 5 - Land Use and Cropping Pattern, Production Value
and  Farm  Budgets   ........ .  .  .     .............................  .  67
ANNEX 6 - Rice Exports and Sales, Economic Prices, Price
Structure, and Fertilizer Prices ..............      73
ANNEX 7 - GRB Income and Expenditures, Balance Sheet,
Summary of Farm Budgets, and Cost and Rent
Recovery  Indices   . ........... .. ..     .................   .  77
ANNEX 8 - Incremental Economic Benefits and Economic Costs
and Benefits Stream .................... .. ......   81
MAPS    - Project Areas (IBRD 12978 - 12979)






GUYANA
BLACK BUSH IRRIGATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Guyana has requested IDA assistance in financing
rehabilitation and improvement of irrigation and drainage systems and other
agricultural improvements for rice production on about 75,500 ac of presently
cultivated land in the East Berbice region of the country (Map IBRD 12978 and
12979). The existing cultivated areas which would directly benefit from the
project are the Black Bush Frontlands (29,600 ac) and Block III (19,400 ac).
The existing Black Bush Polder area (26,500 ac) would benefit indirectly from
an increased water supply, as a result of the provision of full water supply
to the Frontlands, and irrigation and drainage improvements on about 4,000 ac
within the Polder which are required to correct malfunctions in the systems.
The Block III lands would benefit from improvements to the main water supply
works and an increased water supply while the Frontlands area would be fully
rehabilitated. The new land areas in the Manarabisi Cattle Pasture (31,500
ac) and the Black Bush Backlands (20,000 ac), which were included in the
initial proposals and feasibility studies for future development, would not be
included in this project due to the amount of financing required, both through
loans and Government contributions. Further, the water supply available from
the Canje and Berbice rivers would not be sufficient to develop all of these
lands at present and increasing this supply would require construction of a
dam and storage reservoir on the Canje river to regulate excess flow during
the rainy season.
1.02      The proposed project would be part of a comprehensive plan being
undertaken by Government to rehabilitate existing irrigation and drainage
systems, including roads and on-farm development, and improve agricultural
supporting services for about 450,000 ac of lands suitable for rice and sugar-
cane production in the coastal areas of the country. The main objectives of
this program are to provide flood protection, a dependable water supply for
double-cropping, adequate drainage, all-weather roads, on-farm development
(land leveling) and improved agricultural supporting services, all of which
would increase rice production and improve the quality for export markets.
The Bank is already providing financial assistance (Loan 1016-GUA) for rehabi-
litation and improvement of the Tapakuma irrigation project (41,750 ac) in the
northwest coastal region, known as the Essequibo Coast, and this project is the
first to be undertaken as part of the comprehensive plan. Following initial
delays and serious cost overruns, which Government is attempting to cover by
loans from external sources, this project is presently making good progress.
The programs on fertilizer use for rice and for training extension workers
have contributed to improved farm practices and higher yields and have had an
impact on national policy for the rice industry. The adoption of block
planting by several groups of farmers in the project area is an important
innovation which would improve production throughout the country.



The Bank also provided financial assistance with two loans (559-GUA and
765-GUA) for two sea defense projects, which have been completed, and which
are also a part of the ongoing plan to protect both urban and agricultural
areas throughout the coastal areas of the country, of which a large part are
at or below the high tide level. The ongoing Livestock Development project
(Credit 221-GUA) has provided further assistance for improving the agricul-
tural sector. In addition to the Bank's assistance, Government is presently
negotiating a loan from the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) for the
first phase of the Mahaica-Mahaicony-Abary (MMA) project to develop about
98,000 ac out of a total of about 287,000 ac of arable land in the coastal
zone between the Demarara and Berbice rivers. This zone covers most of the
central coastal agricultural area and a major part of the area remaining to be
developed. During the period from 1969 to 1975, Government also completed a
Rice Modernization Program, with financial assistance from USAID, which
included the construction of six large drying and storage facilities, improve-
ment of Government-owned mills, a fund to assist privately owned mills to
expand and modernize (which did not fully materialize), establishment of a new
central research station at the Mahaicony Abary Rice Development Station
(MARDS), importation of seed of improved varieties, feasibility studies for
the Black Bush and Tapakuma projects, and technical assistance for improving
the rice industry.
1.03      Feasibility studies for rehabilitation and development of the Polder,
Cattle Pasture and Backland areas were completed by Harza Engineering Co.,
Chicago, Ill., and Aubrey Barker Associates, Georgetown, in November 1975. A
supplemental study for the Frontlands and Block III was completed in February
1977, by the same firms. The first study was financed by USAID and the second
by a Bank Project Preparation Facility loan. These two studies are the basis
of the appraisal covered by this report.
II. THE PROJECT AREA
Description of the Project Areas
2.01      The project area is located in the southeastern part of Guyana in
the East Berbice coastal region between the Berbice and the Corentyne rivers.
The area is a low lying coastal plain having little relief, with parts of the
area below mean sea level and the general elevation of the low lying lands
about 3 to 4 feet and the reef lands about 5 to 8 feet with a slope of about
one foot in 10,000 feet toward the sea coast. The region lies between
latitudes 20 N and 90 N, in the tropical rainfall zone, and has two wet and
two dry seasons as follows:
Major Wet Season             May - July
Major Dry Season             August - November
Minor Wet Season             December - January
Minor Dry Season             February - April



- 3 -
Precipitation in the area occurs mainly as high intensity showers, with an
annual average of about 80 inches. Other climatic factors such as temperature,
humidity, sunshine and evaporation show little variation throughout the year;
the recorded average monthly temperature at New Amsterdam, the largest urban
area in the region located near the mouth of the Canje river, is 820 F.
2.02      The region has more than 200,000 ac of land which has been, or could
be, developed for agriculture, all lying on the right bank of the Canje river
from which a water supply is obtained for those areas presently under irri-
gation. These include five sugar estates covering 44,000 ac which are
supplied by three pumping plants with a total installed capacity of 810 cusec.
An additional 80,000 ac are used for rice production, out of which about
46,000 ac are irrigated, the balance being dependent on rainfall, mainly for
the autumn crop (May-September) each year. The three areas in the project
area are briefly described below:
(a)  The Black Bush Polder is a new land settlement scheme (26,500
ac) completed in 1963 and presently farmed by about 1,500
families on state lease land with homestead plots of 2.5 ac
and rice plots of 7.5 ac or 15.0 ac. The scheme is located
inland from the cultivated areas along the coast and was
constructed in an area that was mostly occupied by a swamp.
The irrigation supply for this area is obtained by pumping
from the Canje river. This scheme was constructed as a model
rural development project with four central villages including
housing, water supply, electric power, schools, health
services, paved roads and four rice mills with drying and
storage facilities. The scheme has been successful and is
presently producing about 500,000 bags (31,250 tons) of paddy
annually.  From the standpoint of rehabilitation and improve-
ment of existing developed areas, the Polder is not specific-
ally a part of the project, since this is not a critical
problem with the existing systems in the Polder.  However,
it must necessarily be considered in the planning and
implementation of the overall project since the main canal
and distributaries would be enlarged to convey water to the
Frontlands area, supplied from a new pumping plant which
would be constructed adjacent to the existing Black Bush
pumping plant. This would make it possible to increase the
water supply to all lands in the Polder, which is operating
with less than the optimum capacity in the system, however,
no benefit would be claimed for this;
(b)  The Black Bush Frontlands (29,600 ac) are located between the
Polder and the sea, along the public road extending from
Bloomfield Estate No. 8, about 13 miles east of New Amsterdam,
to Estate No. 51. This is one of the older developed areas
along the coast and was formerly farmed partially under



- 4 -
irrigation by water supplied from the Black Bush swamp.
However, with construction of the Polder this supply was
cut off and presently the area is generally limited to the
autumn rice crop under rainfed conditions. The lower lying
clay soils (20,200 ac) are suitable for rice growing and a
full water supply would permit double-cropping and more than
double production. This area has the highest priority for
future development and entitlement to water with the increase
in supply under the project. The area also has 1,000 ac in
sugarcane, 500 ac in food crops, and 3,800 ac in coconuts on
the reef lands which are also suitable for vegetables,
soybeans, maize and other crops that require light textured
and well drained soils. The existing coconut groves consist
of trees 30 to 40 years old with low productivity. Investment
to irrigate these trees, for the small benefit to be gained,
could not be justified and very little could be done to
develop these lands for other crops under irrigation until
these trees are removed. This probably would not occur as
long as there is some production. Due to this situation the
project does not include on-farm development of these lands
at present; however, the pumping plants and main canal would
provide sufficient capacity to irrigate these lands in the
future, when it is almost certain they would be utilized for
other crops. There are about 4,100 ac in the area which are
not suitable for cultivation due to salinity; and
(c)  The Block III area (19,400 ac) is contiguous with the
Frontlands and extends along the coast from Estate No. 52 to
Estate No. 74, which is adjacent to the Skeldon sugar estate
and the village of Corriverton. The depth of these frontland
areas from the seacoast to the backdams or distributary
canals is roughly 4 miles. The Block III area was developed
as an irrigation and drainage district during the 1940s,
mainly by and for private landowners, and the efficiency of
land and water use and the level of production is better than
in most irrigated areas in the country, including the Polder.
However, after 30 years of operation, the main pumping plant
needs to be replaced and the project works require rehabili-
tation. About 12,000 ac are cropped to rice under irrigation
at present, with more than 5,000 ac which cannot be served due
to insufficient water supply or low levels in the canals
which are below the level of these lands. The initiative of
the farmers in this area is reflected in better cultivation
practices and higher production than in other areas, the high
percentage of ownership of tractors and combines, and the
large number of privately owned rice mills.
2.03      The project area would also include the existing Torani canal, which
connects the Berbice and Canje rivers, as the transfer of additional water
for the project by pumping from the Berbice river would utilize this canal.



- 5 -
Some improvement to the banks of the Canje river to carry the increased flow
from the outlet of the canal to the Manarabisi (Block III) pumping station
would also be included in the project. Government has expressed an interest
in developing an area of about 10,000 ac for irrigation and drainage between
the back of the Manarabisi Cattle Pasture and the Canje river where a number
of livestock cooperatives have been established. This area would be included
in the project for the purpose of carrying out a feasibility study for a later
stage of the project.
2.04      The area between the public road and the sea, comprising about
10,500 ac adjacent to the Frontlands and Block III, would not be included in
the project area since a large part is subject to inundation by sea water. The
lower land areas are heavily salinized and reclamation of the soils would be
very costly as it would require construction of a sea defense, an extensive
drainage system including pumping plants, and a large supply of fresh water
for leaching.
Present Land Use and Production
2.05      At present, the cultivated land in the three project areas comprises
a total of 35,900 ac. This includes only 4,000 ac in the Polder which would
directly benefit from rehabilitation but does not include the remaining lands
(22,500 ac) which would receive marginal benefit from an increased water
supply and improvement in supporting services. It includes 12,900 ac in Block
III which would receive a marginal benefit from an increased water supply and
improved services. In addition, there is a total of 17,100 ac of non-
cultivated land, including reef soils (3,900 ac) and arable rice lands
(13,200 ac) largely due to lack of irrigation water. Non-agricultural use
of lands in the project areas, including public roads, housing, and areas of
tidal marsh total 11,033 ac, about 17% of the total project areas. Cropping
intensity for the total cultivated lands is 110%, much lower than the poten-
tial in the three areas, mainly due to the lack of irrigation water in the
Frontlands and Block III. The major crop in the three areas is rice with
traditional varieties occupying about 20% of the rice areas and improved
varieties such as Starbonnet and "N" about 80%. Rice is grown under flooded
conditions (paddy), and rainfed crops, including rice, are grown in areas where
irrigation is not available and where autumn rainfall conditions are favorable.
A variety of food crops are also grown in some of the low-lying clay soils,
including eggplant, cabbage, black-eyed peas, tomatoes, and peppers and
legumes. Details on crop production are given in Chapter VI, "Agricultural
Production and Farm Budgets." The estimated present net value of production
for the three areas is G$ 6.5 million (US$2.5 million) using current prices.
2.06      In the Frontlands, rice constitutes the predominant agricultural
land use, occupying 74% of the cultivated lands. Coconuts represent the
second most extensive crop (20%) but they occupy the reef soils which are
not suitable for rice and not feasible for irrigation. Sugarcane (5%)



- 6 -
occupies an area of 1,000 ac in the area south of Bloomfield, and food
crops (1%) are grown mainly in the small lots adjacent to the village centers
or in the low-lying areas of clay soils interspersed with the long narrow
strips of reef soils. Cropping intensity in this area is the lowest in
the total project area (104%), due mainly to the lack of irrigation water
which, in most cases, precludes a spring crop of rice and limits the pro-
duction of food crops. About 2,800 ac in the Frontlands (reef soils) and
7,800 ac of arable rice lands are not cultivated at present. Some of these
lands adjacent to the public road are saline.
2.07      Rice is even more predominant in Block III where it occupies 93% of
the cultivated lands. The availability of irrigation water from the existing
scheme allows for a higher cropping intensity (119%) than in the Frontlands.
Coconuts occupy only 6% of the cultivated lands and they are planted on the
reef soils. Food crops are also grown on 1% of the cultivated lands. Some
6,500 ac, representing 34% of the total Block III area, are not cultivated.
These lands comprise 1,100 ac of reef soils and 5,400 ac of arable rice lands,
mainly those occupying the low flats between the reef soils and which are not
accessible to the existing irrigation scheme.
2.08      A total of 4,000 ac in the Polder would benefit directly from the
proposed project, comprising 2,500 ac which are too high to be irrigated
and 1,500 ac adjacent to the Lesbeholden and Mibikuri villages which are
at present imperfectly drained, restricting the growth of vegetables and other
food crops. Cropping intensity is at present quite low: 90% for rice and 50%
for food crops, reflecting the lack of irrigation water in the first case and
deficient drainage in the second. With the proposed works, double cropping of
rice would be possible and food crops production increased considerably.
Population, Employment and Land Tenure
2.09      The present population of the project areas is estimated at approxi-
mately 56,000 people. This figure includes an estimated 29,000 persons in the
Frontlands, 18,000 persons in Block III, and 9,000 in the Polder. The average
farm family is relatively large with some four to nine persons to a household.
The average age of farmers in the Polder has been estimated at 47 years, with
80% of the farm operators having attended school for periods of four years or
more. These figures can be assumed to apply also to the Frontlands and Block
III.
2.10      Information on employment is not available for the individual
project areas, but data on the East Berbice region, where the project is
located, indicate that 42% of working age males are employed in non-govern-
ment positions, mostly hired laborers; 20% have their own business (mostly
farms), and 27% are unemployed. Of the female group over the age of 14 and
not in school, over 90% are engaged in home duties. These figures indicate
a relatively high level of unemployment and underemployment among individuals
in the regional agricultural sector.



- 7 -
2.11      The present farm tenure situation in the project areas is a com-
plex system of ownership and conditions under which farm land is held and
used, and quantitative information on land tenure is scarce and generalized.
In general terms, land tenure can be subdivided into privately owned (free-
hold) and Government or State-owned lands. Private lands are held under one
of four modalities: land received (a) in lieu of transport; (b) through let-
ters of decree; (c) through certificates of registration; and (d) through
lease ((a), (b), and (c) are all freehold). State-owned lands are also held
under various types of modalities, including: (a) license of occupancy;
(b) grants; (c) provision grants for homestead; (d) conditional grants;
(e) provisional free grants; (f) lease; and (g) permissions. In recent times,
near:Ly all Government and State lands are given out through leases and permis-
sions, with the exception of freehold titles for residential lots. In the
Frontlands and Block III, it is estimated that approximately 60% are freehold
lands while the remaining 40% are State-owned. In the Polder, however, all
farms are leased from the Government through the Land Development Division of
the Ministry of Agriculture (MAG). The above percentages indicate that, of a
net total of 46,600 ac of cultivable lands in the project areas, 25,600 ac are
privately owned and 21,000 ac are State-owned, most of which are leased to
farmers for a long term, usually 25 years.
2.12      Table I gives an indication of the land tenure situation in the
Frontlands and Block III. The Lands Department has a register of all land
titles and leases in the country but these data have not been compiled by
regions or projects and specific information on all holdings in the project
area is not available. The table was developed from random sampling of
cultivated areas and on the frequency of the farm size categories as revealed
in the samples. Small farms predominate in these areas, with 83% less than
10 ac and only 2% more than 20 ac. In the Polder, which is not included in
the table, farm size has been established at 15 ac of crop land plus a 2.5-ac
homestead plot for production of food crops, except for a limited number of
smaller (7.5 ac) rice farms. The reef soil lots in the Frontlands vary from
0.5 to 2 ac.
Table 1
Farm Size and Number of Farms in the
Frontlands and Block III
Farm Size       Cultivated       Cultivated    Number         Total      Representative
Category           Area             Area          of          Farms         Farm Size
(ac)             (ac)              (%)         Farms         (%)             (ac)
Up to 5           13,412              31         3,773          58              3.5
5 to 10           13,000              31         1,651          25              8.0
10 to 15           9,798              23           754          11             13.0
15 to 20           4,260              10           237           4             18.0
20 to 25             852               2            37           1             23.0
25 and over        1,278               3            46           1             28.0
Total             42,600             100         6,498         100              6.0



- 8 -
2.13      Distribution of ownership in small holdings has created problems,
particularly in the efficient use of farm machinery. Efforts have been
initiated in Block III to consolidate these holdings into larger blocks
and if the system is successful it is expected to extend to the Frontlands.
Inadequint  lpr2r surveys. the absence of public records, and poor land titles
with antiquated legal descriptions result in considerable confusion and
frequent misunderstanding regarding land ownership in the Frontlands and Block
III.  Discussions with public officials have indicated a dire need for
^2adastral ane land tenure surveys in the country to establish land ownership
and to set up a uniforir system of titles and leases. It is estimated such a
program would requirp at least throp v-rs; hnwevpr. this situation would not
create a problem for thp irriert.
Agricultural Credit
2.14      In the proj.jt  ULed Liiltt aLe a number of institutional as well
as informal credit sources. The principal source is the Guyana Rice Board
(GRB) which primarily serves the small rice farmers. Others include the
Agricultural Cooperative Development Bank (AGBANK), commercial banks,
private machinery operators and local merchants. A 1975 survey of credit
recipients in the Polder showed that 41% had access to GRB, 32% received
cash loans from friends and neighbors, 22% had loans from agricultural and
commercial banks and 17% borrowed from merchants and money lenders.
2.15      The Guyana Rice Board.  From its branch offices located in the
Polder and at Corriverton, the GRB provides fertilizers, chemicals, seeds,
bags and machinery servic-s on credit.  The supply of these inputs at sub-
sidized rates is limited to farmers with less than 30 ac. Rice millers are
also supplied with acetic acid free of charge. Normally, GRB's charges range
from 17% to 58% below actual costs which GRB absorbs as part of its annual
operating expenses. Table 2 presents some comparative costs for inputs and
machinery services.
Table 2
Cost of Inputs and Machinery Services
GRB's Rate     GRB's Cost    Rate of Subsidy
(G$)          (G$)               (%)
Seeds (per bag of 140 lb)            23.25           23.25               _
Urea (per bag of 112 lb)             15.72           21.80              28
TSP (per bag of 112 lb) /1           17.54           21.25              17
Bags ( 2r bag)                        0.70            1.60              46
Insecticides (per lb)                 1.54            3.68              58
Land preparation (per ac)            32.00           44.00 /2           27
Combining (per 140 lb bag)            2.00            3.00 /2           33
/1   Triple Superphosphate.
/2   Estimated on the basis of custom hire rates by privately owned machinery.



- 9 -
2.16      The rationing of these inputs is determined by the Board's rice
agronomists who fix the minimum requirements per ac and farmers can purchase
only the prescribed amount on credit. For the last three years, the interest
rate charged on these credits remained constant at 8.5% per annum. Since
GRB's machinery pool is limited (30 tractors and 34 combines in the Polder),
more than 80% of the land preparation in the project area, particularly in
Block III, is accomplished by private owners and custom hired contractors.
2.17      Agricultural Cooperative Development Bank (AGBANK).  One of the
fast growing agricultural credit institutions is the AGBANK. Since its incep-
tion in 1973, the bank has made 214 loans valued at G$ 2.3 million in the
East Barbice region; 70% of the total loans were disbursed for rice and 18%
for sugarcane at 9% interest rate. The bank conducts a supervised credit
program with six supervisors from its office in Whim, located in the project
area. In order to encourage the formation of cooperatives, the bank lowers
the interest rate by 1/2% for loans channeled through either  ,6is.ered
cooperatives or groups of farmers. A recent Government decision requires
a minimum holding of 50 ac double-cropped for machinery loans. This holding
may be cultivated by farmer groups or cooperatives.
2.18      AGBANK raises its capital requirements from different sources.  For
the 1977 fiscal year (January 1 to December 31), the Government contributed
G$ 6.3 million at no interest, the Caribbean Development Bank (CDB) and
Barclay's Bank provided G$ 6.6 million and G$ 1.5 million, respectively, at
7-1/4% and the bank sold bonds in the amount of G$ 0.4 million at 5-1/2%
interest for a total of G$ 14.8 million.
2.19      Based on recent repayment data, collection rates on credit programs
in the project area have been relatively good. In 1975 repayment to GRB in
the project area was 85% while in 1976 the rate dropped to 78%, reflecting the
poor harvest. Since farmers are highly dependent on the few credit sources
available and have no other alternative source of inputs, they make a strong
effort to repay credit loans each year and any defaults result largely from
crop Eailures.
Future Credit Needs for Rice Production
2.20      Future input requirements with the project would require an
expansion of GRB operations to supply the additional inputs and machinery
services and strengthening the links with private millers to assist in debt
collection. Specifically, the required rates for application of seeds,
fertilizers, insecticides and herbicides for high yielding varieties would
increase the per capita credit needs which GRB would have to meet, together
with the AGBANK and other financial institutions. GRB's efforts to initiate
block planting could ease the administrative burden in supervising the
credit schemes and greatly facilitate the use of machinery. Unless the
credit programs are enlarged the incremental income of the project's target
group would not be realized since their capacity to borrow from the informal
markets is limited. Assurances have been obtained from Government that an



- 10 -
adequate level of production credits (inputs) and machinery services on
reasonable terms would be maintained in the project area to meet the require-
ments with a higher intensity of land cultivation and the introduction of high
yielding rice varieties.
Institutional Participation
2.21      Farmers in the project area receive support and assistance from
several Government agencies. MAG has the major responsibility for planning,
implementation and management of irrigation and drainage projects, for admin-
istration of land ownership and settlement and to provide extension and
training services. These functions are carried out by the several departments
and divisions in the Ministry which have specific competence for different
aspects of agricultural and rural development. These include the Drainage and
Irrigation Board (D & I Board) for policy formulation and general planning;
the Hydraulics Division for engineering, construction and operation and
maintenance; the Extension Division for agricultural planning, research on
crops other than rice, distribution of seeds other than rice and extension
assistance to farmers; the Land Development Division for administration of
settlement schemes such as the Polder; and the Lands Department for adminis-
tration of land ownership and leases.
2.22      The rice industry, including production, processing and marketing,
is largely controlled by the Guyana. Rice Board (GRB), a statutory body
attached to MAG. GRB provides assistance to rice farmers for production
in the form of machinery services for land preparation and harvesting, ferti-
lizers and chemicals, seed for improved varieties, bags for transport of both
paddy and milled rice and technical assistance, mainly for disease and pest
control. GRB also provides drying, storage and milling facilities, and
all milled rice, except that retained by the farmers, must by law be sold to
GRB which handles both internal and export marketing. In the project area,
about 80% of the milling is performed by privately owned mills. GRB also
operates the central rice research station at MARDS.
2.23      Agricultural credit for rice is provided by GRB through services
in kind as noted above, and credit for both rice and other crops, together
with longer term credits up to seven or eight years for on-farm development
and machinery, is provided by AGBANK. The AGBANK provides supervision on use
of credits and assistance on farm planning and management.
2.24      Other agencies which operate in the project area are the Guyana Sugar
Company (GUYSUCO), which controls the recently nationalized sugar industry, and
the Guyana Marketing Corporation (GMC), which assists with the marketing of food
crops and maintains price controls on certain essential agricultural products.
Soils and Land Classification
2.25      The soils of the project area, which originate from predominantly
riverine or marine deposits, are predominantly dark-colored, fine-textured,
and slightly to moderately acid in the surface layers and fine-textured,



- 11 -
light-colored but mottled and somewhat alkaline in the subsoil. Owing to their
very high clay content, these soils swell and shrink considerably, showing
some characteristics of Vertisols, but are not true representatives of this
group.
2.26      Near the coast, a group of soils, presenting a sandy surface commonly
underlain by sandy material and interstratified with clay materials, occurs in
elongated strips generally parallel to the coast and 200 to 4,000 feet in
width. These soils, developed on the reefs or old beach lines, apparently
originated from more recent marine sediments. These reef soils were classified
only as regards their suitability for sprinkler irrigation, which, for various
reasons, including high cost, is not likely to be adopted for these soils
in the near future. They constitute about 15% of the Frontlands and Block III
areas, but do not occur in the Polder area.
2.27      The lands of the Frontlands and Block III areas were classified
according to their suitability for production of irrigated crops and rice.
While perhaps too high a proportion of these lands have been assigned to Class
I for rice production or to Class II for upland crops (Table 3), it was found
that 82% of the lands in the Frontlands and 91% in the Block III area are
suitable for rice production, and 70% of the lands in the Frontlands and 91%
in Block III are suitable for upland crops with appropriate soil management.
It is estimated that all the area of the Polder directly benefitting from the
project (4,000 ac) is suitable for rice and/or upland crops, with 43% included
in Class II lands.
Table 3
Suitability for Upland Crops and Rice
Land Classification of the Frontlands and Block III Areas
(Values in Acres)
Land             Frontlands                           Block III
Class    For Upland Crops   For Rice         For Upland Crops   For Rice
I             -              23,657                  -           19,518
II          22,943             3,549               19,518            -
III           4,303               543                  _              _
IV /1        1,171               668                  845            845
Total         28,417            28,417               20,363         20,363
/1   Includes urban areas and tidal flats.
2.28      Cation exchange capacity of the predominantly clayey soils is
moderate, with magnesium being the predominant adsorbed cation; neutral salt
exchange acidity values are low but apparently none are sulphate soils. In
any case, improvement of irrigation and drainage systems in areas with salt
affected soils will enhance desalinization.



- 12 -
2.29      Soil infiltration and permeability values are low to very low, but
this is not an unfavorable condition for rice under flood irrigation. For
vegetable crops, however, it is required that the soil be formed into beds
or cambers to ensure satisfactory drainage conditions. Soil fertility is
relatively high as compared with most humid tropical soils but the soils in
the project areas respond to additions of nitrogen and phosphorus, and often
to calcium.
2.30      In the tidal flats near the coastline, the soils are saline and in
some cases alkaline, but a majority of these soils occur east of the public
highway, in the areas which would not be included in the project area.
Soil Drainage
2.31      The general slope of the lands in the project areas is very low,
averaging about 0.5 feet per mile towards the coast. The extensive low areas
inland from the higher reef soil areas and which constitute the main crop areas
in the Frontlands and in Block III, as well as in the Polder, are 4 to 5 feet
above mean sea level. The Frontlands are drained by a relatively large number
of channels, most of which are too small to carry the peak flows, causing
excessive flooding of the low-lying crop areas in most years. The Block III
area has somewhat better drainage facilities than the Frontlands and, with
proper management and control of the irrigation supply, flooding does not
constitute a serious constraint to most crops, particularly to rice production.
2.32      The moderate irregularities of the terrain produce low spots in the
fields and an accumulation of surplus irrigation or rain water with the
corresponding adverse effects on crop production. Extensive leveling is
required in these fields but the effective depth of the surface layer of the
soil, seldom exceeding 4 to 6 inches, precludes large movements of earth
and leveling should be carried out through progressive filling up of the
lower areas over a period of several years. This method of land leveling,
combined with improved land preparation, should result in optimum conditions
of soil and water management.
Rice Production and Processing
2.33      Rice production in Guyana fluctuates dramatically from year to year
because of changing weather conditions but recent performance points to a
significant trend increase. Production reached a 17-year low in 1972 at
94,000 tons but since then it has increased substantially reaching 160,000
tons in 1975 and 210,000 tons in 1977. The 1976 crop, however, was only
110,000 tons as a result of extraordinarily adverse weather. The principal
factors in these increases were favorable weather, high land use intensity for
the spring crop, introduction of high yielding varieties and generally higher
yields with all improved varieties. Processed rice represented 7 to 9% of
export earnings in Guyana in recent years. Of the rice produced in the
country, about 50% is exported, mainly white rice, while most of the domestic
consumption is parboiled rice. GRB has five rice mills in the East Berbice
region and there are 52 privately owned mills (32 single-stage and 20 multi-
stage). These facilities include concrete drying floors and, in some cases,



- 13 -
small mechanical drying units. In addition, there is a new and larger drying
unit comprising three dryers combined with bulk storage for 7,500 tons at the
GRB mill at Joanna in the Polder. The drying capacity is 240 bags (15 tons)
per hour. Almost all private mills provide drying floors and a few own small
mechanical drying units. The estimated combined mechanical drying capacity in
the region is 240,000 bags of paddy (15,000 tons) per month, or 25 tons per
hour. At a milling yield of 65%, two bags (140 lb) of paddy yield one bag
(180 lb) of milled rice.
2.34      The five GRB milling units have a combined capacity of 250,000 bags
(20,000 tons) of milled rice per year. The private sector provides an addi-
tional annual capacity of 975,000 bags (78,000 tons) per year. These figures
indicate that private operators mill 80% of the rice produced in the region.
This capacity would be adequate to handle the increased production with the
project; however, many of the private mills are old and inefficient and the
milling quality is low. Throughout the country 59 single-stage mills were
closed down and only seven new multi-stage mills constructed during the period
1969-75. In the past the owners have lacked incentive and funds for capital
improvements due to the low profit margin between the fixed prices paid for
paddy and prices paid by GRB for milled rice. Further, the policy of the
AGBANK is that private owners may receive investment loans as cooperative
enterprises and not as individuals. There is a trend for farmers to use toll
milling, i.e., a fixed cost per bag, instead of selling paddy to the mills.
This permits farmers to sell milled rice to GRB and retain the by-products.
It also permits private millers to earn higher revenues for their services.
With the increased production in the last three years GRB has begun contract-
ing a significant amount of milling to the privately owned mills. With toll
milling and the contracts with GRB, the private sector has started to recover
from the previously depressed conditions but it is important that Government
recognize the importance of private mills to the industry and ensure their
operation in the future.
2.35      Total storage capacity in the project region is estimated at
1,205,000 bags (75,312 tons) per year, including 315,000 bags (19,687 tons)
in the GRB facilities and 890,000 bags (55,625 tons) in the private sector.
Although GRB storage capacity is smaller, it stores 65% of all rice milled,
leaving storage of paddy largely to the private mills. Of the total storage
capa,city, only 10% is bulk-type storage (7,500 tons). Projections shown
in Table 4, based on estimated production with the project, indicate a maximum
drying and storage deficit of about 450,000 to 500,000 bags (28,000 tons) in
November. This could lead to serious problems of loss and damage and the
project provides for construction of new drying and storage facilities,
particularly in the Frontlands area (para 3.06). Guyana is moving toward bulk
storage of paddy and milled rice but this would not be fully achieved for
several years and additional facilities are needed to process the present and
projected production with traditional methods.



Monthly Flow of Paddy
Harvested, Dried, Milled and Stored
(140-lb bags)
February   March    April        May      June    July  August  September  October  November  December  January  February
Harvested      81,431    285,007  325,723  122,146    -           -       -      333,264    555,439   222,176        -          -
Dried-/        81,431    240,000  240,000  240,000  12,876   -            -     240,000    240,000   240,000   240,000   204,537            -
Not Dried--      -         45,007  130,730   12,876    -          -       -      93,264    315,439   444,537   204,537          -
Milled-/       81,431    204,166  204,166  204,166  48,710   -            -     204,166    204,166   204,166   204,166   204,166    371
In Storage       -         80,841  166,564   48,710    -          -      -      129,098    480,371   498,371   240,371             371     -
1/ Mechanical drying capacity - 240,000 bags/month - 25 tons/hr (20-hour day).
2/ Maximum monthly volume of paddy not dried - 445,000 bags - 29,000 tons.
3/ Milling capacity - 204,166 bags/month. - 21 tons/hr (20-hour day)
XH



- 15 -
Water Supply and Requirements
2.36      At the present time the water supply for irrigation of 44,000 ac
in the five sugar estates, 26,500 ac in the Black Bush Polder, 19,400 ac in
Block III and a partial supply for the Frontlands is obtained by pumping
from the Canje river. A part of this supply is presently secured by gravity
flow from the Berbice river to the Canje river through the Torani canal. The
additional supply required under the project to supplement the existing supply
to Block III and the Polder and to provide a full supply to the Frontlands
would be achieved by installation of a 1,000-cusec pumping plant on the Berbice
river for delivery of additional water through the Torani canal. An analysis
of project water requirements and supply, based on long-term records of rain-
fall and river flow, is presented in Annex 2. This analysis indicates that
an adequate supply would be available for the project with a probability of
80% (four years out of five) during the critical dry months of February,
March, September, October and November each year, these being the months when
high plant water use coincides with climatic extremes of high temperature, wind
and low humidity. The analysis also indicates that normal flow in the Berbice
river, with 80% probable excedence, is more than adequate to supply the added
project requirements and that this additional extraction would not increase
the incidence of salt water intrusion during periods of low flow.
Water Rights
2.37      Water resources in Guyana are owned by the State and vested in
the Guyana Water Authority, which was created by law in 1972 to control and
regulate all activities related to water development and use. The Authority
may delegate its power to other agencies or boards but all new projects for
development and use of water resources must be reviewed and approved by the
Authority. For existing irrigation and drainage projects, the Authority has
delegated its powers to the D & I Board.
2.38      Legislation for the granting of water rights to individual farmers
for irrigation does not exist in Guyana. Within declared drainage and irriga-
tionI areas, the D & I Board grants the right to use by establishing "time run"
schedules at the beginning of each irrigation season for all land owners or
lease holders within an area, which assigns a given number of hours of use
during each return period of seven to 15 days. There is no measurement or
limit on quantity used and this unregulated use, together with unauthorized
use, as when farmers open the gates outside the period assigned, is a serious
problem on all irrigation schemes. This leads to wastage and conflicts of
interest whereby some farmers are left with insufficient supplies or do not
receive water at proper intervals to maintain satisfactory crop growth. The
Water Authority and the D & I Board recognize the problem and are making an
effort to control water use at the farm level and penalize unauthorized use.
The best means available at present to achieve better control of water use is
to :Lmprove management and supervision within the irrigation areas and to work
with farmers' associations and cooperatives for better cooperation and sharing
of responsibility between the project staff and the farmers.



- 16 -
Water Quality
2.39      The quality of streamflow in both the Berbice and Canje rivers is
excellent for irrigation use. During low rainfall and low flow periods, the
dissolved solids content rarely exceeds 200 ppm and the pH factor ranges from
neutral to slightly acid. The only real quality problem has to do with salt
water intrusion upstream from the river mouth, particularly in the Canje
river, and this occasionally makes it necessary to temporarily cease operation
of the sugar estate pumping plants which are downstream from those which would
supply the project area. The transfer of additional water from the Berbice
river would eliminate this problem. Otherwise the water contains no toxic
or harmful elements and there is no evidence of waterborne disease.
III. THE PROJECT COMPONENTS
General Scope and Purpose of the Project
3.01      The project would include works to improve and increase the water
supply, rehabilitation and improvement of irrigation and drainage systems,
on-farm development and improvement of agricultural supporting services and
other facilities for the main purpose of increasing rice production in the
Frontlands (29,600 ac), Block III (19,400 ac) and the Polder (26,500 ac). The
rehabilitation of irrigation and drainage systems would be carried out on the
Frontlands area and on about 4,000 ac in the Polder as the general systems
serving the remaining 22,500 ac in the Polder are in relatively good condi-
tion and do not require extensive rehabilitation. Existing systems in Block
III would not be rehabilitated under the project dS Government plans to
include this work in a later phase. This increase in production would be
partially achieved by providing a full water supply to the three areas suffi-
cient for double-cropping of rice on about 59,500 ac and for about 5,000 ac in
sugarcane and food crops. The 4,600 ac in coconuts in the Frontlands and
Block III would not be provided with on-farm development or irrigation until
use of this land is converted to food crops or oilseeds, or replanted to
higher yielding coconut varieties. About 6,400 ac of reef lands which are too
high in elevation or salt affected would remain idle and not be irrigated.
The increased water supply would be obtained by pumping from the Berbice river
to supplement the present gravity diversions through the Torani canal to the
Canje river, from which the supply to the three areas would be obtained by
pumping. The entire cultivated area in the Polder would benefit from the
increased water supply, since the new pumping plant to be constructed for the
Frontlands would discharge into the existing main canal serving the Polder and
the capacity of the plant would provide an increased supply of the Polder.
3.02      In addition to the project works and on-farm development, the project
would include an agricultural development program to improve supporting ser-
vices and other facilities to improve the processing of rice. A description
of the main components is presented below.



- 17 -
Project Works
3.03      The project works would consist of the following:
(a) a new 1,000-cusec pumping plant on the Berbice river at the
intake of the existing Torani canal for transfer of water to
the Canje river;
(b) rehabilitation of the Torani canal to restore it to the original
capacity of 1,000 cusec and bank improvements on the Canje river
between the outlet of the Torani canal to the Manarabisi pumping
plant to contain a maximum discharge of about 1,800 cusec;
(c) a new 300-cusec pumping plant on the Canje river to replace the
existing 30-year old plant which supplies Block III;
(d) rehabilitation of the main supply canal (10 mi) to Block III
and the Seaford distributary (8 mi), including construction
of approximately 15 new main regulators, to increase the water
delivery rate into the water courses;
(e) a new pumping plant adjacent to the Black Bush Polder pumping
plant on the Canje river with a capacity of 500 cusec to
serve the Frontlands and supply additional water to the Polder;
(f) upgrading the capacity of the Black Bush main canal (7 mi), the
north and south branch canals (7 mi), and the distributaries
(22 mi) to convey the additional supply to the Polder and the
Frontlands;
(g) improvement of existing facilities in the Polder to provide water
to 2,500 ac which cannot be irrigated at present and to correct
certain localized problems on drainage in the Lesbeholden and
Mibikuri homestead areas;
(h) rehabilitation and improvement of irrigation and drainage systems
and roads and on-farm development in the Frontlands area; and
(i) provision of five sluice structures on the new main drains to be
constructed in the Frontlands area together with about 1,000
cusec of drainage pumping to supplement discharge through the
sluices.
3.04      The feasibility report includes a proposal to install return flow
pumping plants on the main drains from the Polder as a means to provide
additional water for the Frontlands and Block III. This proposal was made on
the basis that the Manarabisi Cattle Pasture and the Backlands would be
included in the project and the additional water supply would be required.
However, since these two areas would not be part of the project (para 1.01),
these five additional pumps would not be required until a second phase of the
project is undertaken or until more of the reef lands are converted to crops
other than coconuts and irrigation becomes necessary.



- 18 -
Project Headquarters and Operation and Maintenance
3.05      The facilities available at present for management in the project
areas include operation and maintenance stations at Whim and Benab, both of
which need to be rehabilitated, and a headquarters office at Mibikuri where the
local head of the Land Development Division serves as project manager for the
Polder. The operation and maintenance station at Whim has responsibility for
the Polder and the Frontlands, even though it is actually located in the
extreme northwestern part of the Frontlands. The project would include
construction of a new project headquarters for all three areas of the project,
possibly at Leeds (Estate No. 50), and either improving the station at Whim or
moving it to the same location as the project headquarters. The Benab station
(Estate No. 66) would also be rebuilt in a more suitable location. The project
would also provide for improvement of operations in all areas by increasing
the staff, particularly for control of water use, and additional equipment to
facilitate maintenance.
Drying and Storage Facilities
3.06      The project would include construction of drying and storage
facilities in the Frontlands and Block III areas for paddy rice with a capacity
of about 400,000 bags (140 lb) per month. This would include additional yard
drying space as well as mechanical dryers and flat storage in covered struc-
tures (para 2.35). This would be an important factor in reducing losses and
in producing higher quality rice for the export market.
Applied Research Program
3.07      The project would include a program of applied research for variety
trials on rice and fertilizer response in different soil types and for improve-
ment of water management, leading to implementation of control measures to
improve field use efficiency and reduce wastage. These programs would be
similar to those being carried out on the Tapakuma irrigation project, which
have been successful in demonstrating the benefits of using improved rice
varieties together with proper and timely applications of fertilizers. These
programs would be implemented under the direction of a consultant with field
and laboratory staff provided by both MAG and GRB.
Extension Service and Training Program
3.08      Extension assistance for rice production in the project area is
inadequate as the GRB has only one rice specialist and two assistants stationed
in the region. The Extension Division of the Ministry of Agriculture has four
agents working on crops other than rice, mainly vegetables and ground provi-
sions, but these agents spend most of their time in the Polder. There is,
therefore, an urgent need to strengthen extension work in the project area.
The situation is similar to that encountered on the Tapakuma project and it
was partially through the efforts of project staff and some success in estab-
lishing an extension training program for this project that Government is now
undertaking an agricultural education and extension training program. The



- 19 -
Bank-financed Second Education Project (Loan 1106-GUA and Credit 544-GUA)
includes a rural training center to be established in the Polder and a national
extension training center. One of the objectives of this program is to estab-
lish a countrywide extension service but it is not expected that it would
provide a sufficient number of qualified extension workers for the project
area in time to meet the needs of projected agricultural development. In
order to meet the immediate needs, the project would include a program to
train extension agents and assistants and to conduct training sessions and
demonstrations for farmers. The program would involve the participation of
both the NAG and GRB and be under the guidance of a consultant. The program
would also be carried out in close cooperation and coordination with the work
on extension training in the Education project.
Seed Production and Testing Program
3.09      The state farm in the Polder is presently producing rice seed for
the project area. This farm is an extension of the central seed producing
station at MARDS. There is a need, however, to upgrade the quality of seed
produced and to establish a seed testing laboratory. A rice seed improvement
program would be carried out under the project which would be similar to the
program now being carried out on the Tapakuma project, which is showing good
results.
3.10      Assurances have been obtained from Government that:  (a) a plan of
operations satisfactory to IDA for strengthening extension services in the
project area and for implementing programs for training extension workers
and farmers, fertilizer and variety trials, soil testing, and research on
water management would be prepared with the assistance of consultants (para
3.11) and submitted no later than June 30, 1979; and (b) minimum acceptable
standards for control of the quality of seed paddy would be introduced and
applied to both private and public seed producers (Section 3.07 of Joint
Project Agreement).
Consultant Services
3.11      The project would include 560 man-months of consultant services for
carrying out surveys, investigations and final designs for project works;
preparation of specifications, bills of quantities, cost estimates and tender
documents; evaluation of tenders and negotiation of construction contracts;
and for supervising construction of project works, including on-farm development.
The consultants would also assist the MAG and GRB with the extension training
program, the applied research program and the program for seed production and
testing. It is expected that the consultants would be employed from both
foreign and local firms and the terms of reference would be similar to those
being used on the Tapakuma project. The employment of a consultant firm(s),
acceptable to IDA and under terms and conditions approved by IDA, to provide
the required professional services for implementation of the project works and
for carrying out the agricultural development programs would be a condition of
credit effectiveness (Section 3.02 of Joint Project Agreement and Section 5.01
of IDA Credit Agreement).



- 20 -
3.12      The services of a consultant firm would be obtained to carry out
surveys and studies and prepare a feasibility report for development of the
area presently occupied by about seven livestock cooperatives and several
private holdings between the Manarabisi Cattle Pasture and the Canje river.
Government assigns a high priority to developing this area for irrigation and
would take the necessary action to redistribute the land into 15-ac to 20-ac
tracts. With the proposed pumping from the Berbice river and some return flow
pumping in the Frontlands (para 3.04), an adequate water supply from the Canje
river, about 200 cusec, would be available for this area of about 10,000 ac.
Farm Machinery
3.13      At the present time about 60% of the land preparation (plowing,
discing and puddling) and harvesting in the project area is carried out
with privately owned equipment. The incidence of machinery ownership is
very high in Block III and while more than 300 farmers own tractors and plows
in the Polder, only a few own combines. GRB attempts to provide the balance
of the equipment needed for the Polder and the Frontlands from its main
machinery pool and maintenance station at Joanna in the Polder; however, this
would not be adequate to meet the needs during critical periods and with the
higher land use intensity with the project. This creates the well known
problems of delays in preparing the land, poor land preparation and untimely
harvesting. Land preparation (plowing) is usually poor since the small
tractors (35 hp) and disc plows are able to turn only about four inches or
less of topsoil. There is a need to use heavy moldboard plows and larger
tractors (65 hp) so that the topsoil could be turned to a depth of 12 inches
at least once every three years. The project would include the purchase of
additional machinery, primarily to service the Frontlands area. In addition a
stock of spare parts would be provided for the maintenance station at Joanna
in an effort to salvage about 50% of GRB's equipment which is currently
inoperable. Additional tools and shop equipment would also be provided to
upgrade the maintenance station. Assurances have been obtained from Government
that: (a) priority would be given to the Frontlands for use of the new equip-
ment; and (b) GRB would give consideration to purchase of suitable tractors
and moldboard plows as a means to improve land preparation (Section 3.08 of
Joint Project Agreement). In giving prior consideration to the need for
machinery services by farmers in the Frontlands, the GRB will provide services
to the smaller farmers in preference to the larger farmers. The larger farmers
will be expected to obtain machinery services from sources other than the GRB.
Project Preparation Facility Advance
3.14      The Bank advance of US$280,000 to finance the supplemental feasibil-
ity study for the Frontlands and Block III would be refinanced as part of the
IDA Credit for the overall project.
Environmental Evaluation
3.15      All lands in the project area are under cultivation at the present
time and since the main objectives of the project are to increase the water
supply to these lands and rehabilitate existing irrigation and drainage



- 21 -
systems, there would be no significant change in the environment. There is
no evidence of waterborne diseases or bilharzia; nevertheless, the Government
would be watching the situation to ensure that the project area is kept free
of such diseases.
IV. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
Cost Estimates
4.01      Cost estimates for the project civil works are based on estimates
in the feasibility report prepared by Harza Engineering Co., dated February
1977 and revised in line with unit prices in the tenders for Contract I of
the Tapakuma irrigation project (April 1977). They represent costs as of mid-
1977 when construction under Tapakuma Contract I started. Costs of imported
equipment at 1977 prices are estimated CIF Guyana, free of duty and taxes as
the purchaser would be a Government agency. Costs of materials and equipment
which would be purchased locally are based on prices of local suppliers during
1977 and those for local services for administration, engineering and super-
vision reflect salary levels during the first half of 1977, to which has been
added the estimated cost of an official increase in minimum wage rates of 53%
for 1977, 100% for 1978 and 155% for 1979, over the minimum wage of December
1976. The estimates for foreign consultants are based on costs in recent
contracts for these services in Guyana and other Caribbean countries. Physical
contingencies are estimated at 15% of the project base cost. Expected price
increases during the six-year implementation period of the project, from 1978
through 1983, are calculated on the basis of projected inflation rates for
civil works of 9% during 1977-79 and 8% thereafter. For equipment the rates
are 7.5% during 1977-79 and 7% thereafter. A rate of 10% increase per year
was used for consultants and local staff to be employed on the project. The
estimated cost of the civil works and of the overall project are summarized in
Table 5. Detailed cost estimates, an estimated expenditure schedule and the
estimated requirements for local staff and cost are presented in Annex 3.
The total cost of the project is estimated at US$42.8 million, with a foreign
exchange component of US$27.0 million, or 63% of the total cost. Most of the
foreign exchange is required for the project's civil works (50%), irrigation
equipment (20%) and consultancy services (15%). The estimated total project
costs include US$4.1 million for physical contingencies and US$11.2 million
to cover expected price increases.
Financing
4.02      Apart from the proposed IDA credit of US$10.0 million, loans of
US$10.0 million from IFAD, US$7.5 million from USAID, and US$6.0 million from
IDB are expected to be approved shortly. In addition, it is expected that
CIDA will contribute US$2.5 million equivalent in local currency generated from
a commodity import credit now being negotiated. The terms of financing of
the IFAD loan are yet to be determined, but it is expected that they would
be concessional. The USAID loan would be for 20 years, with 10 years of grace,
with interest at 2% for the first 10 years, and 3% thereafter. The terms and



- 22 -
Table 5
Summary of Costs and Financing Plan
(US$ million)
-------- Costs --------      ---------- Financing -
IDA/              Govt. & Other
Local   Foreign   Total      IFAD       USAID   Cofinancing
Civil Wlorks              6.785     8.815   15.600   10.320                   5.280
Buildings                 0.559     0.241    0.800                0.800
Equipment, including
pumps                   0.361     6.000    6.361    3.840       2.160       0.361
Engineering and
supervision             0.667      -        0.667                           0.667
Consultant services       0.297     2.715    3.012                2.720       0.292
Extension, research
and seed production    0.382       -        0.382                           0.382
Project preparation
facility advance         -        0.280    0.280    0.280
Feasibility study for
cooperative lands       0.100     0.300    0.400                0.300       0.100
Subtotal                  9.151    18.351   27.502   14.440       5.980       7.082
Physical Contingencies   1.374       2.754    4.128    2.120       -          2.008
Price Contingencies       5.234     5.970   11.204    3.440       1.520       6.244
Total                    15.759    27.075   42.834   20.000       7.500      15.334
Percentage                 37         63       100         46        17          37



- 23 -
conditions of the loan from IDB and the credit from CIDA are yet to be deter-
mined, but it is expected that they would be on concessional terms. The
credit would become effective when the loan agreements with IFAD, USAID and
IDB have been executed (Section 5.01 of Credit Agreement). The IFAD loan and
IDA credit, totaling US$20.0 million, would be used as a joint fund to finance
civil works (US$10.32 million), equipment (US$3.84 million), and project
preparation advance (US$0.28 million), while the remaining amount of US$5.56
million would be unallocated. The loan from USAID would be used on a parallel
financing basis to finance construction of project headquarters, operation and
maintenance stations, laboratory and drying yards and paddy storage buildings
(US$0.80 million); equipment and spare parts for rice production and processing,
on-farm development, extension, research and seed production and administration,
engineering and supervision (US$2.20 million); and consultant services for the
project, including preparation of a feasibility study for development of
livestock cooperative lands (US$3.00 million); the remaining amount of US$1.5u
million would be unallocated. The components to be financed out of the
proposed IDB loan would be finalized at loan negotiations between Guyana and
IDB. In the light of this, it might be necessary to revise the list of goods
covered by the IFAD loan and IDA credit. External loans and credits to the
project would provide US$9 million equivalent for local currency expenditures.
Of this, the IDA credit would provide US$1.5 million. A proposed allocation
of the proceeds of the credit and the loans is presented in Table 6. The
Government's contribution would finance US$6.83 million of local costs to
cover the balance of estimated project costs. This contribution would finance
US$1.6 million of local costs for staff and services for engineering and
supervision; extension research, research and seed production, and the feasi-
bility study for a Stage II project; and support the consultants and internal
operational costs. An amount of US$5.2 million would be used to finance civil
works local cost. The Government would be the borrower and carry the foreign
exchange risk.
Procurement
4.03      Contracts for the main project works (US$15.6 million) and imported
equ:ipment (US$5.2 million) to be financed from the IDA credit and IFAD loan
would be procured through international competitive bidding in accordance with
the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits."
Contracts for construction of a new project headquarters, service centers and
other buildings and local procurement of minor items of equipment and supplies
wou:Ld be let on the basis of local procurement procedures acceptable to the
Association. Equipment to be imported (Annex 3) would include equipment for
administration and engineering, irrigation pumps, operation and maintenance,
extesnsion service, applied research, improved seed production, rice production
and processing, shop equipment and spare parts. The USAID loan would finance
the procurement of the administration and engineering, extension research and
seed production, and on-farm development equipment and spare parts in the



- 24 -
Table 6
Proposed Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loans and Credit
Amount of Loans
and Credit Allocated
(Expressed in
Dollar Equivalent)       % of Expenditure
Category                  USAID      IFAD       IDA    to be Financed
------ (US$ '000)  ----
I.  Civil Works                              5,160    5,160   66%
II.  Buildings                        800                        100%
I/
III.  Equipment-t                    2,200      1,920    1,920
a.  directly imported                                      100% of foreign
expenditures.
b.  imported and purchased                                  85% (the foreign
locally                                                exchange component).
c.  manufactured locally                                   90% of ex-factory
cost.
IV.  Consultant Services            3,000                        100% of foreign
expenditures or 100%
or local costs (pro-
fessional salary only).
V.  Project Preparation Facility                         280   100% of total
expenditures.
VI.  Unallocated                    1,500      2,920    2,640
Total:           7,500    10,000   10,000
1/ Annex 3, pages 6 and 7, details the parts of equipment proposed to be
financed by USAID, IFAD and IDA.



- 25 -
amount of US$2.16 million and construction of buildings (US$0.8 million).
Consultant services (US$3.0 million) to be financed from the USAID loan would
be under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association (Annex 3). Domestic
manufacturers in Guyana would be accorded preferential treatment in bid evalua-
tions, limited to 15% of the CIF price of imported goods or the actual tariff
application, whichever is lower, and regional preferences for oth,.r members of
the Caribbean Common Market (CARICOM) 1/ would be limited to 15% of the CIF
price of non-regional goods or the difference in tariffs, whichever is lower.
Disbursement
4.04      The IFAD loan and the IDA credit would be disbursed against 66% of
the total expenditures for project works and against 100 % of the foreign cost
(CIF) of directly imported equipment, 85% of the total cost for imported equip-
ment purchased locally and 90% of the ex-factory cost for equipment, materials
and supplies manufactured locally. The IDA credit would refinance the Project
Preparation Facility loan of US$280,000 made to Government in June 1976 and an
amount of US$5.56 million would be unallocated in the joint fund. Disbursements
would follow estimated expenditures with a six-month lag. The estimated
schedule of disbursements, which is presented in Annex 3, indicates that they
would be completed over about six years. The loan from USAID (US$7.5 million)
for procurement of equipment, construction of buildings, and hiring of consul-
tants would be disbursed against expenditures.
Accounts and Audits
4.05      MAG would maintain separate accounts for operations financed under
the project, from both the IDA credit and the other loans. Assurances have
been obtained that: (a) the Ministry of Agriculture and its dependent depart-
ments, divisions and boards would maintain separate accounts for the project
and for each of the main components; (b) these project accounts would be
audited annually by an independent auditor satisfactory to the IDA and IFAD;
and (c) the audited accounts, together with the auditor's report, would be
submitted to the IDA and IFAD within six months of the close of each fiscal
year (Section 4.02 of Joint Project Agreement).
4.06      In addition to the conventional financial audit, the auditor's
report should cover matters such as whether:
(a) the goods and services have been procured in accordance
with the conditions set out in the loans and credit
agreements;
(b) the goods have been received or work performed;
1/   Caribbean Common Market is composed of Antigua, Barbados, Belize,
Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, Jamaica, Montserrat, St. Kitts-Nevis-Anguilla,
St. Lucia, St. Vincent, and Trinidad and Tobago.



- 26 -
(c) Payment has been made; and
(d)  the goods or services are eligible for financing under the
loans and credit agreements and have been used in the project.
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
Project Organization
5.01      MAG would be the executing agency for the project and have respon-
sibility for all the principal activities to be undertaken on the project.
This responsibility would be administered through the several departments,
divisions or boards within the Ministry which have specific competence for
irrigation and drainage and agricultural development throughout the country as
well as in the project area. The project components for which these divisions
or boards would be responsible are as follows:
(a) Drainage and Irrigation Board (D & I Board) - The D & I Board
was designated as the legal entity under the Drainage and
Irrigation Ordinance of 1953 for policy formulation, adminis-
tration and management of irrigation and drainage development.
The ordinance empowered the D & I Board to have sole control
for planning, implementation and management of irrigation and
drainage works, but in reality the Board functions under the
direction of the Minister of Agriculture as a policy advisory
group and fulfills certain legal requirements, as established
in the ordinance, such as declaring developed areas to be
declared irrigation and drainage areas. In these areas the
D & I Board has authority to operate and maintain the works,
schedule and control water deliveries and collect project
charges. The Polder, Block III and a part of the Frontlands
are declared areas at present and the balance of the Front-
lands would become so with implementation of the project.
The ownership of all works and lands occupied by works is
vested in the Board.
(b) Hydraulics Division - The Hydraulics Division would have direct
responsibility for engineering planning, construction of project
works, and operation and maintenance of works, tasks which this
division is presently fulfilling on other projects in the country
as well as on existing works in the project area. The Hydraulics
Division would be assisted in implementation of the project by
a team of consultants in the same manner the Tapakuma project is
presently being executed. The division would appoint a Project
Engineer as its official representative on the project and
provide the necessary support staff to work with the consultants
on investigations and surveys, planning and design, and super-
vision of construction (Annex 3). The Chief Hydraulic Officer
would represent the Ministry for management of the engineering
and construction phases of the project and serve as "Contract
Engineer" for the administration of construction contracts.



- 27 -
(c) Extension Division - This division of the Agricultural Depart-
ment in the Ministry would have responsibilty for the extension
and training programs on the project and for the agricultural
research program for crops other than rice. At present this
division has a senior Agricultural Officer serving the East
BerbiLe region and an Agricultural Office with three assistants
working in the Polder. The extension and research programs
on the project would be patterned after similar programs
now underway on the Tapakuma project which are proving to
be effective. Since Guyana does not have a national extension
service at present, the main task of the Extension Division
would be to train extension workers and create a permnaent
extension unit to serve the area. This unit would become a
part of the national service when it is established but there
is a need to provide this assistance to farmers during the
course of the project (1978-83) if the objectives and goals
are to be met. This training program would be coordinated
with the rural training center to be established in the
Polder under the Bank-financed Second Education Project
(para 3.08) and the national Agricultural Extension In-
service Training and Communications Center to be established
under MAG.
(d) Land Development Divisionl (LDD) - The Land Development Division
would continue to be responsible for administration of settle-
ment schemes in the project area, of which the Polder is the
main one. These schemes comprise groups of settlers farming
land leased from the Government, and the LDD assists with
selection and settlement of the farmers, provides technical
assistance on crop production and farm management, performs
on-farm development, helps farmers to obtain credit and
inputs and cooperates with the Hydraulics Division on water
management and collection of project charges. The chief of
the LDD in the Polder is presently serving as Project Manager
for the Polder. This arrangement would be continued with
the project.
(e) Lands Department - The Lands Department administers regis-
tration of titles on freehold land, the leasing of Government
land and the collection of rents and land taxes.
(f) The Guyana Rice Board (GRB) - GRB is a semi-autonomous
organization which exercises considerable independence
in its budgetary and physical operations, but which is part
of MAG and comes under the supervision of the Minister of
Agriculture. The activities of GRB under the project
would include: an agricultural credit program to supply
fertilizers, chemicals, and other inputs to rice farmers;
machinery services for land preparation and harvesting from
their machinery pool; drying, storage and milling of rice;



- 28 -
a research program for varietal improvement; production of
foundation seed and multiplication for supply of pureline
seed to farmers; technical assistance for pest and disease
control, introduction of improved varieties and production
practices; the cleaning, grading, blending and packaging of
rice for both export and local consumption; and the marketing
of all milled rice, except that retained by the farmers for
their own use. Assurances have been obtained that Government
would cause GRB to carry out these functions as required to
achieve the objectives of the project (Sections 3.06, 3.07
and 3.08 of Joint Project Agreement).
5.02      MAG would appoint a Project Manager who would have authority to
supervise and manage field activities and operations and, specifically, to
coordinate the participation of the departments, divisions and boards in the
project. The Project Manager would be under the authority of the Minister of
Agriculture and his appointment would provide administrative authority for
operation and management of the project at the project level. His authority
would extend to the three project units (Frontlands, Polder, Block III) and
the present Project Manager in the Polder would continue in that post, but
under the supervision of the new Project Manager. This would include all
activities carried out by MAG with the exception of those which are the direct
responsibility of GRB and under the supervision of the GRB Regional Manager,
whose office is in Corriverton. The Project Manager would, however, have
authority to consult with the GRB Regional Manager in order to obtain better
coordination of land preparation and harvesting with irrigation schedules; to
increase the use of improved varieties; to facilitate the availability of
credit, seed and inputs for the farmers; and to generally improve the standards
of GRB's operations. The Project Manager would work closely with the consul-
tants during the project implementation period but the position would be
permanent. Local staff requirements to be provided by Government for adminis-
tration, engineering and supervision of the project and for agricultural
development are presented in Annex 3. A proposed organization for the project
is presented in Chart 17522 in Annex 4.
5.03      The Minister of Agriculture, through the Hydraulics Division, would
appoint a Project Engineer who would work with the consultants and represent
the division on technical matters during the implementation period and,
following completion of construction, would supervise operation and main-
tenance (O & M) for the three project units, particularly for scheduling the
operation of pumping plants and delivery of water as required to the project
areas. The Project Engineer, who would be under the administrative super-
vision of the Project Manager, would also supervise overall maintenance
activities and the two District Engineers now located at Whim and Benab who
are responsible for 0 & M in the Polder and Block III, respectively. The
station at Whim also performs a limited amount of work in the Frontlands.
These two engineers with their staffs and equipment would continue to operate
as at present; however, the 0 & M facilities would be expanded and improved
under the project (para 3.05). Assurances were obtained that suitably quali-
fied persons would be appointed to serve as a Project Manager and Project



- 29 -
Engineer on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA and IFAD. Appointment of
a Project Manager and Project Engineer would be a condition of credit effective-
ness (Section 5.01 of IDA Credit Agreement).
Project implementation
5.04      A team of consultants, from both local and foreign firms, would be
contracted to perform the engineering work required to implement the project,
including surveys, site investigations, technical studies, planning and final
designs, construction drawings, specifications and tender documents, and to
supervise contruction. This team would be supported by local staff supplied
by the Hydraulics Division (Annex 4). The construction of major project
works would be by contract, most likely by a foreign contractor with small
local firms as sub-contractors. On-farm works would be executed directly as a
force account operation by the Hydraulics Division, with equipment provided
under the project, or under contract to local firms who would basically supply
skilled and ordinary labor and use Government equipment. The Hydraulics
Division would administer and provide general supervision of all engineering
work and construction through the Project Manager and Project Engineer. The
agricultural development programs, specifically for extension and applied
research, would be implemented by MAG assisted by consultants. GRB would
cooperate in these programs and would supervise the use of the additional farm
machinery provided under the project, the seed production program, and con-
struction of the additional drying and storage facilities.
5.05      It is estimated that implementation of the project would require
about six years, i.e., from mid-1978 to June 1984 (Chart 17521 - Annex 4).
With approval of the credit by mid-1978, it should be possible to have the
consultants on the project by the second half of 1978. Allowing 12 to 18
months for surveys, site investigations and design, the first contracts for
construction of the Berbice and Manarabisi pumping plants could be let near
the end of 1979. This would allow a full four-year period to complete construc-
tion of the project works, and activities on the agricultural development
program would be carried out concurrently. It is estimated that the construc-
tion phase would be completed by the end of 1983 and full development of agri-
cultural production would be reached in 1985.
Participation of Other Agencies
5.06      The AGBANK would provide medium-term farm development loans to
farmers in the project area. The loans would be mainly for crops other than
rice and could include funds for purchase of farm machinery. The AGBANK
provides supervision of credit and some assistance to farmers on management
planning, mainly to private owners, since farmers on State leased land usually
are given this assistance by MAG through the Land Development Division. The
Guyana Marketing Corporation (GMC) would provide assistance in the distribution
and marketing of food crops, as part of its national responsibility to improve
the supply of food to local consumers.



- 30 -
Project Monitoring
5.07      Monitoring of the project would form an integral part of the project.
To set up a monitoring system for the project, the Government of Guyana, after
proper study, would submit a request to IFAD for technical assistance. Assur-
ances were obtained that the Government would send to IFAD and IDA proposals
as early as practicable, but, in any event, not later than December 31, 1978,
for establishing a satisfactory monitoring system for the project (Section
3.09 of Joint Project Agreement).
VI. AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION AND FARM BUDGETS
Areas Cultivated and Cropping Patterns
6.01      Present land use and proposed cropping patterns for 29,600 ac of
arable land in the Frontlands, 19,400 ac in Block III, and 4,000 ac in the
Polder which would benefit directly from the project are shown in Annex 5.
Of the latter, improvements in canals and distribution ditches would allow
2,500 ac of the higher areas to be fully irrigated, and improvement of drain-
age in 1,500 ac adjacent to the villages would increase the productivity of
the food crop holdings as well as the cropping intensity for fruits, vege-
tables, ground provisions and pulses. The 12,900 ha presently cultivated in
Block III would benefit from an increased water supply which would increase
production through more double-cropping.
6.02      The project would provide full irrigation to the Frontlands, includ-
ing 6,500 ac of lands lying between the areas of reef soils which at present
are not cultivated. The total rice lands would increase by 6,200 ac and food
crop lands by 300 ac, mainly on reef soils. Coconuts are grown only on the
reef soils which are too high to receive water from the irrigation systems
unless expensive sprinkler systems are used. This would not be justified in
the foreseeable future and these areas would remain largely unchanged during
the life of the project. Sugarcane is grown mostly by small farmers on 1,000
ac in the western portion of the Frontlands and delivered to the Albion mill.
This area would not change significantly as a result of the project, but more
irrigation water would be made available during the dry months.
6.03      The cropping intensity for all cultivated lands in the project
would increase, as a result of improved irrigation and agricultural practices,
from the present level of 106% to 146%. There would be no significant change
in coconuts and sugarcane production but cropping intensity in rice would be
expected to increase from 110% to 154% as a result of a full water supply for
irrigation during both the autumn and spring cropping seasons. Food crops at
present reach an intensity of 180% on the lighter soils of Block III and 140%
in the Frontlands, but it is only 50% on the heavier soils in the Polder,
where poor drainage conditions prevail. On these soils the intensity would be
expected to increase to 104% with the project. However, with the 1,500 ac of
food crops in the Polder, representing 65% of the total food crops area in the
project (2,300 ac), the cropping intensity for the combined food crops area
would increase with the project to 116%.



- 31 -
Crop Yields
6.04      The projections for yields without the project represent small in-
creases except for rice (para 6.05). Potential improvement of crops other
than rice would be inhibited by the uncertainties of water supply, drainage
problems and adverse weather conditions. Projected crop yields with the
project are conservative and would therefore be expected to be achieved.
Benefits from assured water supplies with irrigation, improved drainage, and
land leveling have been taken into account. However, to maintain a conser-
vative estimate, these yields do not reflect the use of optimum fertilizer
rates, together with introduction of high yielding varieties and improved farm
management. With increased fertilizer availability from GRB, a successful
program to promote block planting in rice production, better supporting
services, adequate credit, and better land preparation, yields higher than
those used in the projections would be attainable. With the favorable spring
seasons in 1977, higher rice yields have already been achieved by some growers
with the new rice varieties.
6.05      Rice.  Rice yields in Guyana are expressed in terms of 140-lb bags
of paddy (16 bags per long ton) per ac. For various reasons, among which the
price paid to the farmers is considered to be the most critical, average rice
yields per crop gradually declined from 13.6 bags/ac in 1965 to 10.5 bags/ac
in 1973. Government increased the fixed price of paddy in 1973 because of
higher world prices and yields increased to an average of 13.0 bags in
1974/75, not only due to better prices, but also because of the introduction
of the variety "Starbonnet" from the United States in the early 1970s. This
was done partly to increase production but also to improve rice quality for
the export market. Starbonnet at present occupies about 80% of the rice
lands in the project areas, with traditional varieties being grown on the rest,
except for limited areas of the new variety "N" which was developed from an
IRRI cross at the MARDS research station. Compared to world standards, rice
yields in Guyana are low but with the introduction of variety "N" and others
to follow, it can be expected that yields would increase by about 27% even
without the project. With the project and additional nitrogen fertilizer,
yields are estimated at 20 bags/ac, (1.3 tons/ac or 3.2 tons/ha), an increase
of 54% over present conditions and of 27% over the projections for the future
without the project. In the past 13 years, the spring crop has yielded 26%
less than the autumn crop due to a greater use of traditional varieties in
the face of the uncertain availability of water, the expectation of adverse
weather, the application of low fertilizer rates because of these hazards, and
the inclusion of drop-seed crops in the yield results. With the project
supplying full irrigation for the spring crop and the greater potential due
to more sunshine hours, the projected yields indicate that the spring crop
would produce 14% more than the autumn crop.
6.06      Food Crops.  The diversity of food crops grown in the project areas
required the use of the weighted average method for yield and price determina-
tions. The food crop groups and the corresponding percentage of the project
area they occupy are shown below.



- 32 -
Percentage
Food Crop          of Area in
Group            Food Crop
Fruits                 34
Vegetables             43
Ground Provisions       8
Legumes (Blackeyed
peas)                 15
Total                 100
Food crop yields without the project are expected to increase by about 4% but
with the improved drainage provided by the project in the Polder, yields would
increase by about 18% over those at present. The overall proportion of the
different food crops is not expected to change as it has already adjusted to
market demand.
6.07      Sugarcane.  Yields of sugarcane have declined somewhat in the two
major cane growing areas in Guyana during the past 10 years, particularly
in small farm holdings (5 ac or less). The overall area in sugarcane would
not change with the project but it is assumed that yields would increase
from 3.2 tons of sugar per ac to 3.6 tons. At 11 tons of sugarcane per ton
of sugar, this would represent an increase of 4.4 tons of sugarcane per ac as
a result of more reliable supplies of irrigation water in the drier months
when moisture stress can reduce yields. Yields of sugarcane of more than 40
tons per ac have already been attained by larger growers in the area and it is
reasonable to assume that the expected benefits from the project to smaller
growers would easily be realized.
6.08      Coconuts.  Coconut yields have declined during recent years in the
project area for a variety of reasons. The plantations are often under-planted
with competitive fruit trees, ground provisions and other crops and cattle are
allowed to graze in parts of the areas; the trees are 30 to 40 years old and
dead trees are seldom replaced; weed control is negligible; fertilizers are
rarely used; and insects are not controlled. Irrigation of these groves would
not be justified and there is no assurance that these lands would be converted
to new coconut groves or other crops within the foreseeable future. Local
demand for coconut production is still good, however, and for the purposes of
the project it has been assumed that growers would maintain present yield levels.
Production Costs
6.09      Agriculture in the project area, particularly in rice production, is
characterized by extensive mechanization for land preparation and harvesting.
Fertilizers are obtained from GRB at subsidized prices for rice and food crop
production and pesticides are applied, although not as frequently or consis-
tently as would be desirable. Hand labor is used mainly at planting and
harvesting time and 85% of the labor required is supplied by family labor.



- 33 -
Both hired labor and family labor have been priced at G$ 8.00 per day, an
average price for the project area. Total cost of production per ac of rice
under present conditions is estimated at G$ 160.15, including land preparation,
seeds, fertilizers, pesticides, harvesting, bags, transport, drying, family
labor and interest. The same cost with the project is expected to increase to
G$ 238.85. For food crops the present total cost per ac is G$ 765.20, the
higher cost due mainly to additional costs of fertilizers and higher transport
and packaging costs for the Georgetown market. With the project, total costs
of production are expected to rise to G$ 931.53 per ac. Sugarcane production
costs are intermediate between those of rice and food crops, although costs of
fertilizers and pesticides, as well as land preparation, are somewhat higher;
transport and labor costs are considerably less than in the case of food
crops. Total production costs per ac of sugarcane are estimated at present at
G$ 421.90 and with the project are expected to increase to G$ 467.10, the
increase representing the additional harvesting and loading costs resulting
from increased yields.
Production Features in the Project
6.10      Almost all of the project efforts in variety improvement would
be devoted to rice. The horticultural station in the Polder is at present
supplying virus-free seed and improved varieties of vegetable crops but
would need more support and help from the Government in the future. Tradi-
tional rice varieties are expected to be replaced by new varieties that have
good quality along with other desired features. Variety "N," which is a short,
stiff strawed, nitrogen-responsive type is expected to be grown on at least
80% of the project areas as soon as irrigation water is available, with
Starbonnet occupying the remaining 20%. This new variety has good blast
resistance, its quality is reputed to be almost as good as Starbonnet, and
it is a non-photosensitive, early maturing rice. Two new lines (77916 and
75698) are being increased in 1977 for release in 1978. These lines have
better blast resistance than variety "N" and better yielding ability. All
new releases would meet or improve the quality standards of Starbonnet and
improved blast resistance would help to allay fears that more nitrogen ferti-
lizer would cause heavier blast infections.
6.11      Seed Quality and Supply.  There are no laws controlling seed purity
in Guyana and almost all of the rice seed in the country is produced by GRB
through contracts with a few private growers. Foundation seed is produced
at MARDS and this is supplied to contracted growers for multiplication into
what is considered pureline seed, but it normally is of low quality. There
are plans to produce from 600 to 1,000 ac of rice seed on the Rice Improvement
Farm in the Polder, enough to supply 50% of the acreage in the Polder, the
Frontlands and Block III, allowing growers to obtain new seed every other
crop, or once a year, which is more frequent than in other rice areas in the
world. The quality of seed produced in the Polder farm has been good in recent
years, but efforts would be made to provide, besides varietal purity, a seed
which is free of red rice and weed seeds. Other aspects of seed growing which
would be taken into consideration in operating the farm are the fallowing of



- 34 -
fields to eliminate weeds in preparation for planting a variety, a suitable
sclheme of rotations to produce several varieties and planting in head rows for
better rogueing for red rice. Enough equipment for proper seed bed preparation
is already available so that weeds and red rice could be controlled with
proper management. The proposed support of the seed program under the project
is outlined in paragraph 3.09.
6.12      Fertilizers.  Nitrogen is one of the most important factors in
attaining high rice yields, especially with the IRRI varieties or crosses
such as "N." In the project areas not all farmers have been using fertilizers,
particularly with traditional varieties, but the majority do use them, at
least at low rates. Farmers growing improved varieties use as much fertili-
zer as they are able to procure from GRB, usually one 112-lb bag of urea or
50 lb of nitrogen per ac. A few of the farmers obtain a little more
but from experience in other countries nitrogen-responsive varieties should
have twice this amount. The growers' usual practice is to use one-half bag
(56 lb) of Triple Superphosphate (TSP) with one bag of urea, a practice that
should be continued because soils in the project area are low in phosphate.
One aspect which would be studied under the project's component of applied
research and fertilizer response studies (para 3.07) is the effect of sunshine
hours, both during the spring and autumn crops, upon the optimum rate of nitro-
gen use by the new varieties. These determinations of the most efficient use
of nitrogen are important in Guyana where all urea has to be imported. Methods
would also be sought to incorporate the urea into the soil at depths of 3 to 4
inches before planting since the present practice of applying all the urea in
the water on top of the soil results in serious losses of nitrogen through
denitrification. Vegetable crops also require fairly high rates of nitrogen
but at present the use of fertilizer in these crops is limited to about the
same level as for rice, since larger amounts are not made available to
vegetable growers. In view of their contribution to the incremental income
under the project, this problem would receive special attention from project
management.
6.13      Pest Control (insects, diseases and weeds).  The staff of GRB and of
MAG responsible for providing farmers with assistance in pest control is at
present inadequate. The extension component of the project (para 3.08) would
alleviate this problem until a nation-wide extension service already under
study could be successfully established. At present farmers apply two or
three insecticide treatments but if all pests occur, a four to five treatment
program would be required for full control. The main problem is for farmers
to recognize the danger early enough to treat for insects before the economic
damage level is reached. Vegetable growers are at a disadvantage because
Government procurement is geared to pest control in rice and they cannot always
obtain the required chemicals or in the quantities needed and, consequently,
they suffer significant crop losses. The present level of fungicide use on
rice to control blast is low and applications are late. Under the project,
the increased use of higher blast-resistant new varieties and efforts to apply
fungicides on a preventive basis would help solve these problems. Another
aspect of pest control which would receive special attention is the control of
red rice, muraina grass, and other weeds through better leveled fields, proper



- 35 -
water management, and good seed-bed preparation. The ability of the new
varieties to grow through four inches of water, allowing continuous flooding
after seeding, would be an important contribution to effective weed and red
rice control. Propanil is highly subsidized in Guyana for weed control and
2-4-D is an economic chemical even without subsidy, but at present both of
these chemicals are seldom used by rice farmers. Propanil is an effective
control of muriana grass which offers strong competition to rice, once it is
established, but timing of application is extremely critical. Effective use
of these pesticides would receive increased attention under the project.
6.14      Mechanization and Land Preparation.  Rice production is highly
mechanized in the project area where only an average of 3.5 man-days of labor
per ac per crop is used, mainly at seeding time and at harvest, with very
little weeding and rogueing done by hand. Although family labor is available
during the growing season, much less is done in the way of crop management
and care than would be desirable. Many of the farms are too small to justify
ownership of tractors and these smaller farms must rely on custom work for
land preparation and harvest. The project would provide assistance to improve
tractor service in the project area since inadequate land preparation consti-
tutes a basic cause for low yields. The extension component of the project
(para 3.08) would assist in implementing a system of planting by blocks of
farms, thus facilitating water control, better land preparation, uniform
variety use and better utilization of equipment. However, due to the small
size of some of the farms, farmers.would continue to depend on the use of
custom hire operators or on the GRB equipment pool, and the efficiency of these
services would have a definite effect on the yields that could be attained.
6.15      Farm Labor.  Although most rice operations are mechanized, a small
amount of hired labor is required at planting and harvesting times. Family
labor is underutilized on the rice crop but has a good potential and is
utilized more on the food crops. Some of the labor in the project areas,
particularly in the Frontlands, is used in the fishing industry, at least part
of the year, but there is sufficient unused manpower available to supply the
additional labor that would be required with the project.
Production and Value
6.16      Total annual agricultural production in the project areas under
without project conditions has been estimated at 34,568 long tons of rice,
3,200 tons of sugarcane, 4,087 tons of food crops and 5.75 million coconuts
with a total net value of G$ 6.5 million (US$2.5 million). These figures,
with the project, would be expected to reach 67,541 tons of rice, 3,600 tons
of sugarcane and 9,248 tons of food crops, with coconuts remaining at the same
level and the total net value of production reaching G$ 12.1 million (US$4.7
million). This increase would result from higher intensity of land use,
bringing non-cultivated lands under cultivation, higher yields, improved water
supply and drainage, improved seed, and better farm management, and would
represent an incremental net value of production of G$ 5.6 million (US$2.2
million) as presented in Annex 5.



- 36 -
6.17      Increases in rice production are based on present average yields of
13 bags per ac per crop which would be raised to 20 bags per ac per crop.
Sale price of paddy rice has been assumed to be constant since it has been
fixed by GRB and is not expected to change in the near future. Net value of
rice production per ac per crop can be expected to increase from G$ 80.35
under present conditions to G$ 135.90 with the project. Since the use of new
varieties would increase the net value of production per ac per crop to an
estimated G$ 105.90, the actual incremental value per ac due to the project
would be G$ 30.00, or 28% over the future value without the project.
6.18      A determination of weighted yields (para 6.06) of food crops in the
project area shows present production to be 3.22 tons per ac per crop. With
the project and through improved irrigation and particularly drainage in the
homestead lots in the Polder, these yields would be expected to increase to
3.79 tons per ac per crop. While this increase appears to be small in terms
of volume, net value of production would increase from G$ 1,526 under without
project conditions to G$ 1,698 per ac per crop with the project, an increase
of 11%. Although food crops occupy only 5% of the cultivated land in the
project area, they would contribute 34% of the incremental value of production
with the project.
6.19      Production of sugarcane would increase only slightly with the
project as a result of increased availability of irrigation water during
dry periods (para 6.07). Incremental value of production per ac would be
G$ 65.50, or 14% over the value without the project.
Farm Budgets
6.20      The size of farms in the Polder is uniform since the land was
parceled out as a land settlement scheme. In the Frontlands and in Block III
it is more difficult to determine representative farm sizes because holdings
are quite varied in size and modality (para 2.12 and Table 1). In these two
areas, 83% are 10 ac or less and 58% are in the group of up to 5 ac, corres-
ponding to the small or subsistence type farms from which the 3.5-ac farm
budget presented in Annex 5 has been selected as representative. An 8-ac
farm budget (Annex 5) has been chosen as representative of the large group of
medium-sized farms. In the Polder, the typical 15-ac farms also include
2.5-ac homestead plots for food crops near the villages. Since 65% of the
food crops produced in the area would be grown on these farms, the largest
proportion of food crops are included in the corresponding farm budget
(Annex 5).  In the smaller 3.5- and 8-ac farm budgets, food crops were included
to better utilize family labor while, on the other hand, no food crops were
included in the larger 28-ac farm budget (Annex 5) where family labor would be
more fully utilized in rice production.  This farm budget represents the large
farms in the project area or it may also represent a typical family holding
where the father owns a larger acreage but it is actually farmed by several
sons as individual operations using the same equipment and labor.



- 37 -
6.21      Some yield and input differences can be observed in the four farm
budgets, viz., smaller farms have slightly lower yields of rice due to de-
pendency upon custom or GRB equipment for land preparation and harvesting, and
the timeliness and quality of this work would affect the yields. For these
reasons, they would tend to use less fertilizer, but, on the other hand, would
give the crop better care in pest control, weeding and application of ferti-
lizers and would not need hired labor. It has been assumed that all farms
would use improved varieties of rice irrespective of size. In food crop
production, the same principles would apply, resulting in higher yields for
smaller farms than for the larger farms. Land preparation has been assumed
to ccost less per unit for the 28-ac farm or even for the 15-ac farm than for
the smaller farms because these larger farms would either own their own
tractor or have access to family-owned or a neighbor's tractor. The 28-ac
farm would tend to use more fertilizer and have less problems of procurement.
Pest control programs would be less intensive in these larger farms because
of the problems of coverage with the hand equipment; however, this would not
be a problem on the smaller farms.
VII. MARKETS, MARKETING AND PRICES
Market Situation
7.01      Rice.  Guyana's membership in CARICOM has insured substantial market
outlets, accounting for 95% of rice exports, an average of about 70,000 tons
durinig 1975 and 1976. The Agricultural Marketing Protocol, a mechanism
created by CARICOM, facilitates trade flows among member countries. Export
prices are negotiated annually and have remained almost constant since 1975
despite world market prices falling substantially. At present the negotiated
price is some 30% above the prevailing world market price.
7.02      The volume of rice exports has largely been determined by the avail-
ability of a marketable surplus. The slow export growth is attributed to
internal factors affecting the rice industry rather than market limitations.
First, paddy output fluctuated significantly in response to pricing policies,
particularly in the mid-1960s when both acreage and productivity declined
substantially. In addition, recurrent droughts and floods affected the level
of output thus depressing the marketable surplus.  Second, the quality of rice
has been below international standards, containing a high proportion of foreign
material and red rice.  With increasing per capita income of the principal
trading partners, Jamaica and Trinidad and Tobago, demands for better quality
rice were met by suppliers from the United States. A breakdown of rice
purchases, exports and domestic sales is presented in Annex 6.
7.03      Despite recent improvements in the quality of rice exports it is
not expected that CARICOM will continue to absorb the bulk of Guyana's rice
exports at the present level of prices. The recent economic difficulties of
many CARICOM members and the resulting imposition of trade restrictions within
the major CARICOM markets appear to indicate that preferential price treatment
for Guyanese rice is unlikely to be given to the same extent as in earlier



- 38 -
years. Nevertheless, the current annual import requirement of CARICOM is
150,000 tons, with Canada, Cuba and other Central and South American countries
importing a further 250,000 tons. The project is estimated to increase pro-
duction and exports of milled rice by 21,000 tons by 1985, bringing total
rice exports for Guyana to approximately 200,000 tons. Projected demand
increases both within the Western Hemisphere and the rest of the world of
2.4% per annum should ensure Guyana suitable markets provided an aggressive
marketing strategy is adopted.
7.04      In order to guarantee an expanded steady supply of rice exports at
a high quality, the marketing infrastructure will have to be strengthened.
With only one domestic and export marketing channel, the country's annual
production of rice is purchased and sold solely by GRB. Farmers have the
option of delivering paddy or milled rice at prices fixed by the Board. The
predominance of private millers has given them an indispensible role in the
marketing mechanism. The deteriorating state of these private mills coupled
with low profit margins has led to poor quality milling. Often GRB must
remill, clean and blend the rice delivered to its warehouses. In order to
maintain acceptable quality requirements for the export markets, GRB incurs
considerable marketing and processing costs. Unless a program is launched to
offer some support either through improvement of the profit margins or opening
of credit facilities to rehabilitate and modernize the private mills, GRB
would have to absorb the current high cost of processing which affects its
future competitiveness in the open .world markets. Other measures required to
improve efficiency in rice marketing would involve immediate expansion of
storage and drying facilities as discussed in paragraph 3.06. Existing
storage and drying facilities in the project area lend themselves to crop
losses and quality deterioration. Since improvement in quality is essential
in future rice export performance, these additional facilities would augment
other complementary measures. Finally, GRB should initiate export shipments
directly from rice producing areas as they are currently doing from Corriverton.
This practice would not only eliminate double handling when the rice is
shipped to Georgetown but also reduce transport costs. Furthermore, introduc-
tion of bulk storage and transport could cut the cost of handling the rice in
bags.  Assurances have been obtained during negotiations that Government would
assist in the improvement and expansion of rice mills in the project area and
shall, for this purpose, take measures adequate to enable the provision of
credit facilities, on reasonable terms, to owners of these mills and take all
action necessary to maintain reasonable returns for rice milling that will
permit improvement in the quantity and quality of rice milled in the project
area.
7.05      Food Crops.  Fruits and vegetables produced in the project area
are either consumed domestically or add marginally to export supplies. The
markets for these crops are largely Georgetown and the coastal towns. The
GMC (para 2.24), the agency responsible for food crops distribution, is
strengthening its services to cater primarily to domestic markets. 1/ However,
1/   The marketing capacity of GMC is limited to major food crop growing areas
and absorbs only 40% of total production.



- 39 -
increasing internal demand for food has not stimulated production significantly
and the incremental output of 5,200 tons of food crops from the project would
be easily absorbed and would contribute to Guyana's becoming more self-sufficient
in food supply.
7.06      The GMC has a weekly collection schedule for the project area when
farmers can dispose of their produce at guaranteed fixed prices. Other
marketing channels include the small traders whose presence is felt strongly
during times of excess demand and, by bidding higher prices, they monopolize
the imarket. Additional marketing facilities to accommodate the incremental
output from the project area would be warranted at full development and the
GMC has plans to open a central warehouse for farmers to dispose of their
products regularly.
7.07      Sugar.  With nationalization of the two major sugar companies, the
newly created GUYSUCO (para 2.24) has taken over production and distribution.
GUYSUCO has retained the services of Bookers' Associates to assist in manage-
ment of the sugar estates and export marketing. The additional output from
the project would easily be absorbed in the existing markets and the estab-
lished channels are adequate.
Prices
7.08      The market mechanism in Guyana has a secondary role in determining
prices. Essential consumer products like rice, wheat, edible oils, sugar and
other food crops are subject to Government price control. While the Govern-
ment's intervention to stabilize food prices has eased the domestic inflation
rate, it has resulted in a heavy burden on public revenues. It is estimated
that over 12% of annual current revenue is allocated to subsidize both con-
sumers and producers. The depletion of foreign exchange reserves in recent
years has forced Government to introduce austerity measures by eliminating
or reducing subsidies for transport, rice, wheat flour, electricity and stock
feed. However, sugar and edible oils are still highly subsidized. A summary
of economic and financial prices for all commodities produced in the project
area is presented in Annex 6.
7.09      Rice.  The process of fixing domestic prices of both paddy and
milled rice is complex and involves primarily the GRB, the Rice Action
Committees and the Rice Producers Association. Upon the recommendations of
these organizations, the Cabinet Ministers establish prices for different
grades of both paddy and milled rice, as well as the retailer's margin for
the internal market. Since 1974, rice and paddy prices paid by GRB remained
unchanged except for a few selected grades. 1/ In the meantime, however,
export prices rose between 1974 and 1976. A comparison of producers and
export prices would indicate that the latter have been growing at a faster
rate than the former. As a result, GRB's profit margin, after allowing for
1/   Incentive prices of G$ 1.00 per bag of paddy and G$ 2.00 for milled rice
have been in force since 1976.



- 40 -
the costs of processing and marketing, is estimated at an average of G$ 12.30
per bag of paddy in 1977 prices. Although this price differential accrues to
GRB, it is used to support the subsidy programs for production inputs, domes-
tic sales and research and to cover operation and management costs. Domestic
consumers used to receive a price subsidy of 40% which GRB absorbed as part of
its operating costs; this subsidy was eliminated with effect from February 1,
1978.
7.10      To derive the farmgate price for the economic evaluation of the
project, it is assumed that the incremental production of rice would be
exported at a price equivalent to the prevailing world price of rice, which,
in 1977 prices, FOB Georgetown, is estimated to be G$ 1,171 per ton (US$390)
by 1985. A farmgate economic price of G$ 852 per ton (US$284) is estimated
after deducting marketing and processing costs.
7.11      Food Crops.  Since it is assumed that the incremental production
of food crops would be marketed domestically and not considered as import
substitutes, no attempt was made to estimate export prices. Comparisons of
vegetable prices in urban centers of Guyana and other Caribbean countries show
no significant price differences, with the exception of cabbages and blackeyed
peas, which are in strong demand in Jamaica and Trinidad and Tobago. However,
the absence of regular shipping services in the CARICOM area, particularly
facilities for perishables, Guyana's current deficit in most foods and self-
sufficiency in other CARICOM countries would make it unlikely that Guyana
could enter these markets. For the purpose of the economic and financial
analysis, a weighted average price for fruits and vegetables of G$ 694 per
ton has been derived, based on domestic market conditions. It is further
assumed that in real terms the price will remain constant.
7.12      Sugar.  The Bank's commodity price projection for sugar shows an
upward trend from the 1976 price level. In 1976 Guyana' export earnings from
sugar were at their lowest in several years due to a combination of falling
prices and bad weather; however, Guyana's contractual arrangements under the
Lome Convention maintained prices above world market quotations. Only 19% of
the total export volume was shipped to North American markets and sold at
lower world prices. Following the Bank's commodity price forecast, the
economic price equivalent at the farmgate for sugar sold on the world market
would increase, from G$ 695 per ton in 1977 to G$ 868 per ton in 1980.
7.13      Farm Inputs.  All fertilizers must be imported and the cost is an
important factor in the overall production cost. According to the Bank's
commodity price forecasts, the economic prices of both urea and Triple Super-
phosphat- (TSP) would gradually increase at an average annual rate of 5%
between 1977 and 1980. A projection of prices based on CIF Georgetown quota-
tions is shown in Annex 6.



- 41 -
VIII. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
Financial Management of GRB
8.01      GRB is the principal institution through which Government deals with
the rice subsector and it has been entrusted with key functions in the areas of
production, marketing and price policy. It is difficult to assess its present
financial position as its audited accounts are available only up to 1974.
This information, together with unaudited figures for 1975 and 1976, is
presented in Annex 7. These data indicate that GRB's financial position has
recently been under strain, with its annual surplus declining from G$ 9.35
million in 1975 to G$ 3.37 million in 1976 and turning into a deficit of about
G$ 2.4 million in 1977. Operating and development expenses as a percentage of
sales increased from 21% in 1975 to 28% in 1976. The volume of borrowing has
been rising, both in the form of overdrafts to finance the rising level of
stocks and of long-term loans from the USAID and Government to finance capital
expenditures for expansion and renovation of rice mills, silos and agricultural
machinery. The Cabinet, upon the recommendation of the GRB, the Rice Action
Committees and the Rice Producers Association, establishes the buying and
selling prices and the levels of subsidies to farmers and consumers on the
two public policy considerations of providing reasonable incentives for rice
production and keeping in check increases in cost of living. The fiscal
implications of GRB's operations have not always been clearly perceived in the
absence of up-to-date detailed and audited accounts, but it was becoming
increasingly doubtful whether GRB could meet, as envisaged under Government
policy, all its operational and developmental expenses, including subsidies,
from its own income. An important step was taken, from this point of view,
with the recent elimination of the consumer subsidy which had amounted to
G$ 7.:5 million in 1977 and had been a major cause of GRB's financial weakness.
Another key factor in this context is the existing marketing arrangement with
CARICOM, as Guyana obtains at present a preferential price for its rice from
these countries. It is this higher price which has helped GRB meet the cost
of its support to the rice industry, including the subsidies and the provision
of research, extension and other services, and cover operating losses in its
rice mills. Given, (a) the uncertainty about the continuation of the premium
prices on the CARICOM market; (b) the growing capital requirements, estimated
at about US$16.6 million for the four-year period ending 1981, for maintaining
and expanding the infrastructure sufficiently to handle the substantially
increased production expected to result from the various irrigation projects;
and (c) the existing fiscal and foreign exchange constraints in the country,
it is of the utmost importance that GRB should be so managed, based on appro-
priate price and marketing policies and adequate operational efficiency, that
it can assist and develop the rice industry from its own resources, as indeed
is contemplated under Government policy.
8.02      Assurances were obtained under the Tapakuma Irrigation Project Loan
Agreement (Loan 1016-GUA) that GRB would establish a separate reserve out of
profits on export sales for stabilizing the price paid to rice farmers and



- 42 -
covering costs of replacement and repairs of its farm machinery and rice pro-
cessing equipment. GRB has not yet created this special fund which was
intended as a means to reduce the impact of fluctuations in the international
rice price on farmers' income and production incentives as well as on GRB's
financial viability. GRB's assumption has been that its general reserves
would suffice for the purposes in view but this is increasingly open to
question in the light of the recent weakening of GRB's financial position.
In view of the crucial role played by GRB in the rice industry, which, in turn,
is of strategic importance to the country, and the fiscal implications for the
Government of GRB's operations and financial position, assurances have been
obtained that GRB would prepare and implement a plan for the improvement
of its accounting system and financial management, so as to provide detailed
and up-to-date data to its management and to Government for assessing the
financial results and implications of its policies and determining, from
time to time, the steps necessary for ensuring its financial viability and
operational efficiency. Assurances have also been obtained that its audited
financial accounts for the years 1974/75, 1975/76 and 1976/77 would be
furnished to IDA not later than the end of 1978, and the audited accounts
for 1977/78 not later than June 30, 1979 and that its financial accounts for
every subsequent financial year would be furnished to IDA within six months of
the close of the year and that effective measures, including the provision of
qualified staff and other personnel in the form of technical assistance, would
be taken for improving GRB's accounting system and financial management and
updating its accounts for audit. It is expected that, on the basis of better
and more up-to-date financial data, it would be possible to develop appropriate
pricing and marketing policies and monitor their impact, so that GRB can
maintain its capital assets, undertake the expanded investment program which
is needed and build up a reasonable reserve. Under the technical assistance
arrangements, which GRB is trying to organize with external finances, the
consultant would be expected to review GRB's accounting system and other
related aspects of GRB's operations and help establish an accounting and
management system, including arrangements for collecting and processing
information on operational results so as to enable GRB management to monitor
developments closely and determine and implement appropriate operational
policies (Section 4.05 of Joint Project Agreement).
Producer Benefits
8.03      It is estimated that more than 6,000 families would benefit directly
from the project. The distribution of these benefits is a function of the
existing land distribution and future access to credit facilities and other
supporting services. A recent estimate of the relative annual per capita
poverty level income in Guyana is US$138. Hence, the target group in the pro-
ject area has been identified as those families with an average holding of less
than 10 ac. This group constitutes 83% of the farm population and cultivates
62% of the project farm lands. The target group is represented by two sub-
categories with average farm sizes of 3.5 ac and 8 ac. This breakdown was
necessary in the farm budget analysis to show the income differential within
the target group. For the 3.5-ac farms, the annual per capita family net
income without the project would be G$ 592, which represents a per capita in-
come of about G$ 100, or US$40 per annum. To supplement their farm incomes,



- 43 -
farmers in the project area are employed part-time as hired laborers and
engage in fishing. With the project, the annual net farm income of the
3.5-ac target group would increase to G$ 1,063 per family after allowing for
family labor and project charges consisting only of operation and maintenance
costs. Notwithstanding the additional labor requirements with the project,
the small farm holders would continue to augment their annual income by off-
farm activities. Furthermore, farmers in this category would be exempted from
project charges for recovery of investment, which represents a form of subsidy.
For the largest farm size, annual per family net income would reach G$ 4,635
net of project charges and allowance for family labor.  A summary of the farm
budgets for representative size farms and net income is presented in Annex 7.
Cost Recovery
8.04      The Drainage and Irrigation Ordinance of 1953 empowers the D & I
Board to collect actual operation and maintenance costs and recover the full
amount of capital investments from the beneficiaries. Government, however,
has made no effort to recover capital investments and the collection of opera-
tion and maintenance costs has averaged about 15% for the past several years.
In the Black Bush Polder, farmers were assessed G$ 17.50 per ac for all charges
in 1976 and, even though this is less than half the operation and maintenance
costs, the collection record has been far less than the capacity of the farmers
to pay. As a result, Government subsidizes O&M costs for all projects at a
rate of about G$ 1.0 million per annum.
8.05      Assessments for O&M costs are based on detailed estimates prepared by
the Hydraulics Division. However, no rates are levied towards the recovery of
capital costs. The situation regarding recovery of investment is complicated
by the unique nature of the rice industry in Guyana. Almost 50% of the rice
lands are farmed under Government leases and farmers object to repaying devel-
opment costs on land they do not own but from which they receive benefits.
Producer prices are fixed and there is no free market since GRB has sole
control of the market for milled rice, leaving farmers with no access to
negotiated markets or prices. GRB earns profits in export markets which are
used to subsidize the industry and provide inputs, some of which must be
imported; such as fertilizers, chemicals, farm machinery and drying, storage
and milling facilities.
8.06      Project costs and benefits are presented in Chapter IX.  The capital
cost of the project net of price contingencies amounts to G$ 2,050 per ac and
the annual operation and maintenance cost at full development is estimated at
G$ 44.00 per ac. The annual operation and maintenance of project facilities
would amount to G$ 1.47 million for serving 42,000 ac, or a rate of about G$
35.00 per ac. An annual charge of G$ 10.00 per ac has been considered for
replacement of the irrigation and drainage pumps at year 25 of project life.
Operation and maintenance costs are based on detailed estimates prepared by
the Hydraulics Division and 70% of the operation and maintenance costs is due
to the operation of the irrigation and drainage pumps. It was assumed that
the total annual cost of operation and maintenance would be charged to all the
beneficiaries in the project area. The analysis of cost recovery takes into



- 44 -
account the income surplus which would be available to pay project charges.
Moreover, other factors like the need for the project executing agency to
mobilize additional revenue, the attainment of allocative efficiency and
equity were considered. In the absence of strict water management and regula-
tion, the charges levied may not reflect the real economic cost of the scarce
resource. However, the equity and generation of additional revenue criteria
could be fulfilled. Two alternative plans were examined to recover costs of
capital and operation and maintenance in 43 years, allowing a grace period of
seven years. The first alternative is to recover 100% of total costs which
would amount to G$ 60 million when discounted at 10%. However, a progressive
distribution of cost recovery in this amount among the different farm sizes
results in an excessively high proportion of total net farm income. Hence,
another alternative cost recovery scheme was analyzed under the assumption
that the maximum direct project charge should not exceed 35% of total net
farm income for the larger farms and progresively less for smaller farms as
shown in the table below. The schedule presents proposed charges per ac on a
progressive scale, the relation between charges and farm size, and the percent
of farm income allocated to project charges as farm size and income increases.
This indicates that these charges would be within the capacity of the farmers
to pay, ranging from 10% of net income for farms less than 5 ac to 35% for
larger farms of 20 ac to 50 ac, and would cover the O&M costs and recover
a portion of the capital investment.
Proposed Annual Project Charges at Full Development
Represen-                         Total                   Total        Total O&M  % of Total
tative                  O&M      O&M    Recovery of  Recovery of  and Capital  Net Farm
Farm Size  Total Area  Charges  Charges  Investment   Investment    Recovery          Income
(ac)      (ac)       (G$/ac)  (G$'000)   (G$/ac)       (G$'000)      (G$'000)
3.5       11,718        44        516        -             -            516           10
8         11,718        44        516       15           176            692           18
L5         12,474        44       549        35           436            985           19
28          1,890        44         83       50            94            177           35
Total         37,800               1,664                     706         2,370           16
8.07      To derive the rent and cost recovery indices, the total incremental
project costs, rents and charges have been discounted at 10%, the assumed
opportunity cost of capital in Guyana. On this basis the present value of the
total project charges would be US$10.0 million. The results are shown in
Annex 6 where the total rent recovery index is 36% and the respective cost
recovery index is 16%. The cost recovery index under this assumption is low,
while the average charges appear relatively high, due in part to the relatively
high charge for reserve and replacement of irrigation and drainage pumps.
Higher rates may affect the farmers' incentives and willingness to pay such
charges.



- 45 -
8.08      The analysis presented above indicates that farms in all categories
from small to large would have a net income with the project sufficient to
pay project charges to cover 0 & M costs and a proportion of the capital
costs. Assurances have been obtained that Government would carry out a study,
not Later than six months before the estimated date for the completion of each
irrigation or drainage system included in the project for determining the
extenit to which the investment cost of such a system could be recovered over a
period of 40 years, taking into account, inter alia, users' ability to pay and
the need to maintain economic incentives for them, and the appropriate interest
rate to be used for this computation and that the Government would review with
IDA and IFAD the conclusions and recommendations of the study soon after
it is completed. Assurances were also obtained that Government would establish
and maintain a progressive system of project charges, as project facilities
are completed and lands come into full production, sufficient to cover the
annual operation and maintenance costs and recover as much of the capital
investment in project works as can be recovered on the basis of the proposed
study. The adequacy of the system of charges would be reviewed by Government
with IDA and IFAD at least once every two years, taking into account the
users' incomes and the effect of the changes in prices on the value of the
investment, and adjustments would be made as required in these charges
(Section 4.06 of Joint Project Agreement).
IX. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
Project Benefits
9.01      The benefits from the project would accrue directly to over 6,000
families. The project would also satisfy efficiency criteria in terms of
allocation of scarce resources and equity considerations since the benefits
would largely accrue to small farm holders of less than 10 ac. In addition,
secondary benefits in terms of employment creation and expansion of commercial
services related to processing of agricultural produce in the East Berbice
region would be forthcoming. The incremental economic benefits and cost and
benefit streams for the project are given in Annex 8. These incremental
benefits are attributed to higher yields, cropping intensity rising from the
current level of 110% without the project to 154% with the project and the
development of 6,500 ac of unutilized land. The principal crop, rice, would
occupy 92% of the total irrigable land, excluding the coconut groves, followed
by food crops, 5%, and sugarcane, 3%. Although the water supply would suffice
to irrigate the 4,600 ac of coconuts, this area would not be irrigated and no
incremental output is expected. Total incremental benefits would gradually
increase starting in year 3 (1980) and full development is anticipated to peak
in year 8 (1985). The incremental foreign exchange earnings from rice exports
would amount to US$8.2 million annually at full development. Food crop
production from the project area would be destined for the domestic markets
and would contribute to the attainment of food self-sufficiency.



- 46 -
Project Costs
9.02      The estimated cost of the project, not including price contingencies,
farm machinery and feasibility study stage II, is US$30.4 million in mid-1977
prices. The annual operation and maintenance cost at full development would
be US$643,000, or US$17 per ac. Farmers' contribution toward project costs
during project implementation for on-farm development is not anticipated.
Government's share of the total project financing is 17% to be financed by
annual budgetary appropriations spread over six years. In addition, Government
would take full responsibility for the operation and maintenance of the
project.
Economic Rate of Return
9.03      For the purpose of the economic evaluation, the following assumptions
were made and some cost items were excluded to reflect the real resource cost
to the economy at large:
(a) Price contingencies which amount to 26% of the total project
cost are deducted since the analysis is in constant 1977
prices. It is further assumed that relative prices would not
change;
(b) The cost of farm machinery has not been included since this
is part of annual production costs. The cost of the studies
for a Stage II project is not included;
(c) The total project cost is also net of taxes since they represent
financial costs rather than real resource consumption;
(d) In an attempt to estimate shadow wage rate for unskilled labor,
both the national and project area unemployment situations were
examined. The recent unemployment figure for Guyana indicates
a 15% overall unemployment rate and 27% for the East Berbice
region. In the absence of any regional parameters for a
shadow wage rate for labor, it is assumed that the opportunity
cost of labor is 75% of the going wage rate;
(e) The life of the project will be 50 years and construction is
scheduled for completion in year 6 (1983). Accordingly,
project benefits would gradually reach their peak in year 8
(1985);
(f) Commodity prices used in the economic analysis are based on
world market projections provided by the Bank's Commodities
and Export Projection Division (Annex 5); and
(g) A shadow exchange rate of G$ 3.00 to US$1.00 was adopted,
against the official rate of G$ 2.55.



- 47 -
9.04      Based on the above assumptions and values, the economic rate of
return is 13.3%, which is higher than the opportunity cost of capital for
Guyana. Hence, the project as proposed is viable in both economic and
financial terms. In order to gauge the response of the rate of return to
possible changes in costs and benefits, sensitivity analysis was carried out
for selected variables and the results are set out below. The stream of cost
and benefits used in the computation of these rates of return are given in
Annex 7.
Sensitivity Analysis
Percentage Change
Rate of Return         from Basic Rate
(a)  Basic rate                              13.3
(b)  Benefits reduced by 10%                 11.9                   -11
(c)  Costs increased by 10%                  12.0                   -10
(d)  Combination of b and c                  10.8                   -19
9.05      Even for the most severe combination with benefits reduced by 10%
and project costs increased by 10%, the project remains viable with a rate
of return of about 11%. Given the Government's commitment to the modern-
ization of the rice industry and increasing production, the most serious risk
in implementing the project would be the Government's limitation in providing
counterpart funds in the amounts and as required for construction and other
project activities. With construction expected to start shortly on the
Tapakuma project and in 1978 on the MMA project, financed by an IDB loan,
the three projects would all be underway concurrently which could burden the
Government's financial resources, especially from 1980 onward. A second risk
arises from the limitations to the ability of the Guyana Rice Board to properly
manage the rice industry and to keep and expand existing markets and at the
same time provide adequate incentives and supporting services to the farmers
so as to maintain rice production and quality at satisfactory levels. The
shortage of trained and experienced professional and technical staff for
implementation and management of the project could create difficulties but
this would be partly overcome by in-service training with the consultant
team.
X. SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
10.01     During negotiations, assurances have been obtained from Government
that:
(a) an adequate level of production credits and machinery services
for rice production would be maintained in the project area
to meet the requirements with a higher intensity of land
cultivation and the introduction of high yielding rice
varieties (para 2.20);



- 48 -
(b) the Ministry of Agriculture, with the assistance of the
consultants, would prepare a plan, to be submitted to
IDA no later than June 30, 1979, for strengthening exten-
sion services in the project area and for implementing
programs for training extension workers and farmers, research
on fertilizer use and variety trials for rice, soil testing
and water management studies; and minimum acceptable standards
for control of the quality of rice seed would be introduced
for both private and public seed producers (para 3.10);
(c) priority would be given to the Frontlands for use of the farm
machinery to be provided under the project; and the GRB would
give consideration to purchase of suitable tractors and moldboard
plows as a means to improve land preparation (para 3.13);
(d) the Ministry of Agriculture and its dependent departments,
divisions and boards would maintain separate accounts for the
project and for each of the main components; these accounts
would be audited annually by an independent auditor satisfac-
tory to IDA and IFAD; and the audited accounts, together with
the auditor's report, would be submitted to the IDA and IFAD
within six months of the close of each fiscal year (para 4.05);
(e) it would cause GRB to carry out its obligations under the
project as required to achieve the objectives of the project
(para 5.01);
(f) the Ministry of Agriculture shall as soon as practicable, but,
in any event, not later than December 31, 1978, send to IDA
and IFAD proposals for establishing a system satisfactory to
IDA and IFAD for monitoring the project (para 5.07);
(g) it would assist in the improvement and expansion of rice
mills in the project area by taking measures for enabling the
provision of credit facilities to them and maintaining reason-
able returns for such mills (para 7.04);
(h) GRB would review and improve its accounting system and
financial management, so as to provide detailed and up-to-date
data to its management and to Government for assessing the
financial results and implications of its policies and deter-
mining, from time to time, the steps necessary for ensuring
its financial viability and operational efficiency; its
audited financial accounts for the years 1974/75, 1975/76 and
1976/77 would be furnished to the IDA not later than the end of
1978 and the audited accounts for 1977/78 not later than June 30,
1979; and its financial accounts for every subsequent financial
year would be furnished to IDA within six months of the close
of the year (para 8.02); and



- 49 -
(i) based on a study to be carried out by Government, a progressive
system of project charges would be established and maintained,
as project facilities are completed and lands come into full
production, sufficient to cover actual annual operation and
maintenance costs and to recover, over a period of 40 years,
as much of the capital investment in project works as can be
recovered, taking into account users' ability to pay and the
need to maintain economic incentives for them. The system
of charges would be reviewed with IDA and IFAD at least once
every two years to evaluate the users' incomes and the effect
of the changes in prices on the value of the investment and
to make adjustments as required in these charges (para 8.08).
10.02     The employment of a consultant firm(s), acceptable to IDA and under
terms and conditions approved by IDA, to provide the required professional
services for implementation of the project works and for carrying out the
agricultural development programs, as well as the appointment of suitably
qualified persons to serve as Project Manager and Project Engineer on terms
and conditions satisfactory to IDA and IFAD, are conditions of credit effec-
tiveness (paras 3.11 and 5.03). The effectiveness of the proposed credit
will be conditional upon the execution of the loans by IFAD, USAID and IDB
(para 4.02).
10.03     With the assurances indicated, the proposed project would be suitable
for an IDA credit of US$10.0 million and co-financing in the amount of US$23.5
million to be provided by loans from IFAD, USAID and IDB.
May 22, 1978



- 50 -
ANNEX 1
GUYANA
BLACK BUSH IRRIGATION PROJECT
Related Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A.        Black Bush Project Feasibility Report; Harza Engineering Co.;
Chicago, Ill., and Aubrey Barker Associates, Georgetown, Guyana.
November 1975.
Volume I    -  General Report
Volume II   -  Technical Appendices
Volume III - Organization, Agriculture and
Economic Appendices
This report covers the Black Bush Polder, the Manarabisi Cattle
Pasture and the Backlands areas.
B.        Draft Feasibility Report for Black Bush Frontlands and Block III;
Harza Engineering Col., Ill., and Aubrey Barker Associates.
March 1977.
Volume I    -  General Report
Volume II   -  Technical, Agronomic and
Economic Appendices (13)
C.        Drainage and Irrigation Board Estimates of Operation and
Maintenance Costs - 1975, 1976, 1977.
January 18, 1978



- 51 -
ANNEX 2
GUYANA
BLACK BUSH IRRIGATION PROJECT
Water Requirements and Water SupPly
Water Requirements
1.        Crop water requirements for rice in the project area were estimated
by the Blaney-Criddle method, as modified by the USDA Soil Conservation
Service, which has given good results in similar conditions. Measurements of
consumptive use were not available; however, reliable climatological data
for extended periods of record (a minimum of 36 years at one of three stations
in the area) made it possible to use this method with confidence. These
calculations provided the estimated monthly consumptive use which was adjusted
for effective rainfall, based on the 80% probable precipitation, i.e., that
which would be equalled or exceeded in four out of five years. Monthly values
for the 80% probable rainfall were obtained from the ratio of the 80% annual
probable precipitation to the average annual precipitation. The field require-
ments were estimated on an efficiency of 70% for rice and 80% for sugarcane,
which reflects the very low percolation loss in the heavy clay soils, and a
conveyance loss of 15% was assumed to arrive at the diversion demands for
irrigation. These demands also took into account the necessary non-beneficial
uses of water in rice production such as draining the fields to apply ferti-
lizers; however, it was assumed that the local practices of draining the
fields just to change the water and letting water run through rice fields
continually would be better controlled by operations staff in the future.
2.        The estimated consumptive use of sugarcane, of which there is only
1,00CI ac in the project area, was based on pan evaporation data which was
available from one station in the area with 12 years of record. Ratios of
evapotranspiration/pan evaporation, as determined by research in other
sugarcane growing areas in the world, were used to estimate the crop require-
ments. The consumptive use values of food crops (vegetables and ground
provisions) was also estimated by this method. The irrigation requirements
of the areas in coconuts were estimated with possible use of these lands for
vegetables and ground provisions or soybeans; however, these lands will not
be irrigated as long as they are occupied by the present coconut groves.
3.        The values for consumptive use, field requirements and diversion
demands for each crop, in acft/month, taking into account double-cropping,
were then applied to the cropping pattern adopted for the project area at full
development (Chapter VI) to determine the total project irrigation demands for
each month of the one year in five with 80% probable precipitation. On the
basis of these calculations, it is estimated that the Polder area would require
diversion of about 115,000 acft of water annually; the Frontlands, 128,000 acft;
and Block III, 84,000 acft, or an average of 4.3 acft/ac. In an area predom-
inantly cropped to rice and the need to maintain ponding, the requirements
appear reasonable. Since the diversions for irrigation would be by pumping
from unregulated flow of the Canje and Berbice rivers, the monthly diversion
demands in acft have been expressed directly in average monthly discharge in



- 52 -
ANNEX 2
cusec, as presented in Table 1. This facilitates comparison of the demand with
average monthly flows in the Canje and Berbice rivers and permits evaluation
of the pumping requirements and source of supply, as also presented in Table 1.
4.        As noted above the values presented in Table I include effective
rainfall based on 80% probable precipitation. The values are presented for
only the critical months when a coincidence of low streamflow and high diver-
sion demand occurs. It may be noted that in the project area these months
are February, March, September, October and November, with September being the
most critical. These are the months when high plant use coincides with
climatic extremes of high temperature, wind, low humidity, or a combination of
these factors and the peak demand occurs during periods ranging from 10 to 30
days when no precipitation occurs in any of these months. Table 2 presents
the results of an analysis of peak demand and maximum design capacity for
the irrigation systems to meet the maximum monthly consumptive use, without
precipitation, with an irrigation interval for rice not exceeding 10 days.
This takes the form of the number of acres that could be served under these
conditions by 1 cusec, i.e., rice (60 ac/cusec), sugarcane (65 ac/cusec),
vegetables and ground provisions (53 ac/cusec), and reef lands, when converted
to crops other than coconuts or new coconut groves (53 ac/cusec). These
-values take into account the relatively high moisture-holding capacity of
soils in the area and the capacity of rice paddies to store water and permit
a longer irrigation interval during drought periods. The table indicates
that the peak demand occurs in September for each of the major areas that
would divert water from the Canje river, including the project area and the
five sugar estates. Fortunately, the peak demand for sugarcane is in October
which would reduce the peak demand in September. This analysis indicates
that the peak diversion demand would be about 1,650 cusec, of which about 650
cusec would be available from the Canje river, and about 1,000 cusec would
need to be diverted from the Berbice river, either by gravity via the Torani
canal or by pumping.
Water Supply
5.        At the present time, the water supply for irrigation of 44,000 ac
in the five sugar estates, 26,500 ac in the Black Bush Polder, 19,400 ac in
Block III, and a partial supply for the Frontlands is obtained by pumping
from the Canje river. It is estimated that about 25% of the Frontlands area,
that part adjacent to the Polder, receives water for irrigation on a regular
basis and with some assurance of availability. Three pumping stations at
Providence (Calabash), Brotherson, and Skeldon, with a combined capacity of
810 cusec, supply the Providence, Rose Hall, Albion, Port Mourant and Skeldon
Sugar estates. The Manarabisi (220 cusec) and Black Bush (420 cusec) stations
supply Block III and the Polder, with some return flow available for the
Frontlands. A small station at Creeklands supplies water to the municipality
of New Amsterdam. Total operational pumping capacity on the river is 1,560
cusec and the maximum monthly recorded pumpage was 1,324 cusec in February
1975. The monthly average in the critical months of low flow and high demand
cluring the period 1966-76 varied from 365 cusec in April to 734 in September,



- 53 -
ANNEX 2
with all the months recording an average monthly pumpage rate in one or more
years of more than 600 cusec. The records also indicate that, in one or more
months of every year, the demand exceeded 1,000 cusec during short drought
periods.
6.        A part of the available supply in the Canje river is obtained by
gravity flow through the Torani canal which connects the Berbice river with
the Canje river. This canal, completed in 1958, operates on the difference
of the tidal water level in the two rivers with the flow controlled by gates
at each end of the canal. The gates are operated in accordance with the two
daily tide cycles and are normally open about 14 hours and closed for 10 hours
each day to prevent reverse flow from the Canje river into the Berbice river.
The average monthly discharges through this canal are presented in Table 1,
together with the average monthly (80% probable exceedence) flow of the
Canje river. The combined flow during the critical low flow/high demand
months ranges from 810 cusec in December to 994 cusec in September. This
would be the flow available at present, without allowance for salinity con-
trol, for irrigation pumping for lands in the East Berbice area. Experience
in the past with salt water intrusion during one or two of the critical months
almost every year as far up the Canje river as Calabash, 14 miles from the
mouth,, provides evidence that present utilization by all users exceeds the
drought period streamflow, including transfers through the Torani canal. The
analysis of demand versus available flow in one year out of five presented in
Table I indicates the deficits that would occur in five out of the eight
critical months and the additional pumping required to provide a full water
supply to the project area. With the project these deficits during the
critical months of February, March, September, October and November would be
met by additional pumping from the Berbice into the Torani canal and Table 1
also indicates that normal flow in the Berbice river (80% probable exceedence)
is more than adequate to supply the added project requirements. During some
months, i.e., January, April, December, the smaller deficits would be met by
gravity flow through the Torani canal, but during the five critical months the
canal could not operate by gravity when the pumps were in operation as pumping
would raise the water level in the canal above the Berbice river level. For
this :reason, the pumping plant must have sufficient capacity to transfer the
full monthly requirements from the Berbice river. During the most critical
month of September this capacity, as indicated on Table 1, would be about
800 cusec. Table 2 presents an analysis (para 4) of the peak demand under
droug]nt conditions with no precipitation during which the full crop require-
ment would need to be supplied by irrigation. These conditions occur for
periods of 10 to 30 days on an average of one year out of two. During these
periods about 1,000 cusec would be required from the Berbice river by pumping
and thnis would be the design capacity of the Berbice pumping plant. Table 2
also indicates the peak demand for each area that would receive water from the
system. The sugar estates pumping plants presently have a maximum capacity
of about 810 cusec and the Polder plant can deliver 420 cusec. The Manarabisi
plant (Block III) would be rebuilt for 300 cusec and the new plant for the
Frontlands would be designed for about 450 cusec in order to provide some
additional capacity for the Polder.
May 16, 1978



- 54 -
ANNEX 2
Table 1
GUYANA
BLACK BUSH IRRIGATION PROJECT
Water Diversion Requirementsl/
and Supply Available from Canje and Berbice Rivers
Component               Jan.   Feb.  March  April   Sept.  Oct.   Nov.   Dec.
---------- (Cubic Feet per Second) --------------
Diversion Demands2/
Sugar Estates                  105    310    315    250    480    640    560    130
Block III                      114    186    150       45    300      88     94      95
Black Bush Polder              150    227    206       67    317    142    140    124
Frontlands                     161    254    257    103    323    179    165    131
Total:      530    977    928    465  1,420  1,049    959    480
Canje River
Normal Flow_/                  640    540    470    530    700    520    460    510
Salinity Control                50      50     50      50     50      50     50     50
Available for Diversion         590    490    420    480    650    470    410    460
Surplus or Deficit (transfer
required from Berbice river)   60   (487)  (508)    15   (770)  (579)  (549)    20
Historical average transfer
from Berbice via Torani canal
1w gravity                     293    303    363    394    294    372    390    300
Deficit to be supplied by
pumping from Berbice             -    487    508        -    770    579    549       -
Berbice River
Normal Flow3/                1,710  1,410  1,290  1,410  1,950  1,440  1,260  1,410
Salinity Control               400    400    400    400    400    400    400    400
Available for Diversion      1,310  1,010    890  1,010  1,550  1,040    860  1,010
1/  Average monthly demand during months of low river flow and high crop water
requirement.
2/  Exclusive of 80% probable effective rainfall.
3/  Average monthly flow during period 1963-75, at 80% probable exceedence level.
May 11, 1977



- 55 -
ANNEX 2
Table 2
GUYANA
BLACK BUSH IRRIGATION PROJECT
Peak Demand and Design Capacity
Black Bush
Polder       Block III        Frontlands   Sugar Estates
Crop and Design                 Area    Peak   Area    Peak   Area    Peak   Area    Peak
Capacity in Acres/Cusec         Cropped Demand Cropped Demand Cropped Demand Cropped Demand
(acres) (cusec)(acres) (cusec)(acres) (cusec)(acres) (cusec)
Rice (60 acres/cusec)           23,300    388  17,400    290  21,800    363          -       -
Sugarcane (65 acres/cusec)           -       -       -       -   1,000      15  44,000    680
Vegetables and Ground Provisions
(53 acres/cusec)               3,200    .60      300      6      500      9        -       -
Reef Lands (allowance for
future cropping for vegetables,
soybeans, maize, new coconut
plantations, other)
(53 acres/cusec)                   -      -   1,700      321/ 6,300    1181'       -      -
26,500    448  19,400    328  29,600    505  44,000    6801'
Peak Demand (September)              -    450        -    300        -    400        -    500
1/  To be supplied in future by return flow pumping from main drainage canals in
Polder.,
2/ Peak demand for sugarcane occurs in October.
Summary (peak month--September)
Peak Diversion Demand:                       1,650 cusec
Available from Canje river:                    650 cusec
To be supplied by pumping from
Berbice river:                            1,000 cusec
May 11, 1977



GUYANA
BLACK BUSH IRRIGATION PROJECT
CivilWorks Cost Estimates
Item                                 Local      Foreign       Total           Local      Foreign      Total
_____--- (G$ '000) ----                 -------- (US$ '000) -------
Berbice Pumping Station
1,017       1,352      2,369              399         530         929
2.  Torani Canal                                        264         360         624             104          141         245
3.  Canje River Bank Improvement                        315         435         750             123          171         294
4.  Manarabisi Pumping  Station
296        428          724             116         168         284
5.  Manarabisi and Seaford Canal Improvements           393         831       1,224              154         326         480
6.  Black Bush Pumping Station
625         823      1,448              245         323         568
7,  Black Bush Polder Scheme
(a)  Main Irrigation System                    1,015       2,253       3,268              398         884       1,282
(b)  Main Drainage System                        410         860       1.270              161         337         498
Sub-total:                      1,425       3,113       4,538              559       1,221       1,780
8. Frontlands Scheme
(a)  Irrigation System                         4,770       5,530      10,300            1,870       2,169       4,039
(b)  Drainage System                           5,612       6,497      12,109            2,201       2,548       4,749
(c)  Land Development                          1,470       1,125       2,595              576         441       1,017
(d)  All-weather Roads                         1,117       1,984       3.101              438         778       1,216
Sub-total:                     12,969      15,136      28,105           5,085        5,936      11,021
Total:                         17,304      22,478      39.782            6,785       8,816      15.601
Rate of Exchange:  G$ 2.55 = US$1.00.
October 25, 1977                                                                                                                      x



- 57 -
ANNEX 3
Page 2
GUYANA
BLACK BUSH IRRIGATION PROJECT
Project Cost Estimate
Item                                   Local       Foreign       Total            Local       Foreign       Total
_____----- G$ '000 ----S-=                 ---------- US$ '000 ---------
Civil Works (from Table 7, Page 2)                  17,304       22,478       39,781            6,785        8,816       15,601
Buildings:
Seed testing laboratory                               70           30          100               27           12           39
Project headquarters at Leeds                        300          130          430              118           51          169
Improvement of operation and maintenance
stations for Block III and Frontlands              355          155          510              140           60          200
Drying yards and paddy storage                       700          300        1,000              274          118          392
Sub-total:      1,425          615       2,040               559          241          800
Equipment:
Administration, engineering and supervision           51          255          306               20          100          120
Irrigation and drainage pumps                        357        6,885        7,242              140        2,700        2,840
Operation and maintenance                            153        2,907        3,060               60        1,140        1,200
Extension, applied research and seed production    54             408          462               21          160          181
On-farm development                                  153        2,040        2,193               60          800          860
Rice production and processing                       153        2,295        2,448               60          900          960
Spare parts                                            -          510          510                -          200          200
Sub-total:        921      15,300       16,221               361        6,000       6,361
Management and Technical Services:
Administration, engineering and supervision        1,702            -        1,702              667            -          667
Consultants services                                 757        6,923        7,680              297        2,715        3,012
Extension, research and seed production
(a)  Ministry of Agriculture                       594            -          549              223            -         223
(b)  Guyana Rice Board                             405            -          405              159            -          159
Project preparation facility                           -          714          714                -          280          280
Feasibility study - Stage II                         255          765        1,020              100          300          400
Sub-total:      3,713        8,402      12,115            1,446         3,295       4,741
Base Cost Estimate:    23,361        46,797       70,158            9,151       18,352       27.503
Physical Contingencies                               3,504        7,020       10,524            1,374        2,753        4,127
Expected Price Increases                            13,347       15,223       28,570            5,234        5,970       11,204
Total Expected Cost of the Project:                 40.212       69.040      109,252           15,759       27.075       42,834
October 25, 1977



CUYANA
BLACK BUSH IRRIGATION PROJECT
Eat-led Sched=le of Expenditore,
Calendar Years
------- 1978 - --              -         1979 ---------       -------- 1980 ---------        -------- 1981 ---------        -------- 1982 ---------         -------- 1983 ---------        -------- T1tal --------
Local   F      n   Total       Local   Foren    Total         Local   Forsion   Total        Local   F-ogtO.   Totl         Local   Fore__  To              Local   F-iP   n   ToIta       Local   Foren   Total
CIvil Works
Berbic- Puapi.g Statio-                                  -         -         -          -         -         -        239       318       557         160      212       372           -         _         -          -         _          -        399       530       929
Torani Ceosi Improv--etr                                 -         -         -          --                              -         -         -        104       141      245           -         -         -          -          -         -        104       141       245
CeoJa River Iosprove--rr                                           -                                                    -        -          -       123        171      294           -         _         _          _          _         _        123       171       294
Manar-bii Pooping Station                                         -         -          -         -         -         70       101       171          46        67       113          -         _                    _          _         _        116       168       284
..narabii sod Seeford Caooln Inprov--nt                 -         -         -          -         -         -         62       130       192          92       196      288           -         -         -          _          _         _        154       326       480
Block Bosh Bolder Puopiog Stolonti..-                                                                                147       194       341          98       129      0227          -                                                   -        245       323       568
black Boch Polder MPio  C-1an  sa.d Dr-ia-                                                                           145       300       445         248      553       801         166       368       534          -          -         -        559    1,221    1,780
Fro_tl-nd- Irhk   :
(a)  IrriRatio  Syys.en                                -         -         -          -         -         -          -         -         -        743       872    1,615         561       651    1,212          566       646    1,212       1,870    2,169    4,039
(k7  Dr-inage Bystot                                                       -          -         -         -                                       890    1,020    1,900          665       719    1,424          656       769    1,421       2,281    2,548    4,748
(c)  Lfod  -evelopeant                                           -         -                                                             -        232       175       4070       172       133       305         172       133       305        576       441    14,17
(d)  All-o.a.ker Road                                                               _ _                                                           175       311       486        131       233       364         132       234       366        438       778    1.216
Sob-total:                      _         _         _          _         _         _        663    1,043      1,706      2,901    3,847      6,748      1,693     2,144    3,939        1,562     1,782     3,308        6,785    8,816   15,601
Boildina
lead Drying end Tenting Labor-aory                       7         3        10         20         9        29          -         -          -          -         -         -          -         -         -          -          -         -         27        12        39
Peojece _t -dq-ant-a at Leads                           27        12        39         70        30       100         21         9        30           -         -         -          -         _         _          _         _          -        118        51       169
Ipr-v-meen of Opeortlo- ood MBit.a...ce
nar.on.  .o. Block III and Fr-ntaeds                  28        12        40         84        36       120         28        12        40                                                                                                       140        60       2800
Drylng Yards  nd Psddy  tndFaRe                         64        28        92        140        60       200         70        30       100          ,                                                                                            274        29       392
Sob-total:                    126        55       181        314       135       449        119        51       170           -         -         -          -         _         _          _         _          _        559       241       800
Adselnlanectlon, EnRigosaneer     oSparvii-on            5        25        30         10        50        60          5        25        30           -         -         -          -         _         _           -         _         _         20       100       120
I=rglo   an-   d Bealnaga  .Pona-                                  -               -                                  90    1,910    2,040           50        750      800           -                   -                               -        148     2,700    2,848
Op-raio  and Maintenance                                           -         -          -         -                    30      500       530          30       640       670          -         -         -                                         69     1,148     1,299
ER,e.sLoo, Applied Research, Send Prodnction             -         -         _         17       128       145          4        32        36           -         -         -          -         _         _           _         _         _         21       160       181
OB-fRa   D-evelop-ent                                    -         -         -         14       186       200          28      372       400          18       242       260          -         -         -           -         _         -         60       890       860
Rice Prodontion and Pr oce.n. lg                         -                             10       150       160         35       525       560          15       225       240          -         -         -           -         -         -         60       900       960
Spaare a-t                       _                                50        50          -       150       150                                                                         _                                                                       20       280
Bob-totol:                      5        75        80         51       664       715        192     3,404    3,596         113    1,857    1,970             -         -         -          -          _         _        361    6,000    6,361
MRanaeant and Technical Services
AdaiietaRation, RE..nRneing and SBperviaion             57         -        57        128          -      128         148         -       148        131         -       131        108         -       108          95        -         95        667          -       667
Coe.sultae Services                                      -       195       195         45       450       495         54       900       954          72       555       627         72       420       492          54       195       249        297    2,715    3,012
Retaneon., R.ea ckh and SBad Productlon
(a)  MinIatr  of Agecltn                               -         -         -                              5         60         -        60         67          -       67          67         -        67         34          -        34        233         -       233
(b)  CoYan Riti clard l                                          -                    6                   6         32                  32         43                  43          43                  45         31                  35         159         -       159
Project P-epa.atloa Facility                             -       280       280                                    -               -         -              -           -              -         -               -          -              -          -       288       280
Faea.bilily BSody Styeg  11                                                            3 50     150       200         50       150       200           '      _            -        -         -         -        -         -         -             108       300       400
Sob-total:                     57       475       532        234       600       834        344    1,050    1,394          313       555       868         290       420       710        218        195       413      1,456    3,295    4,751
laae Coat E-tate                                         188       605       793        599    1,399      1,998      1,318    5,548    6,866         3,327     6,259    9,586       1,985     2,564    4,549        1,744     1,977     3,721      9,161   18,352   27,513
Phyaical Contingency                                      28        91       119         9O       210       300         193       757       950        499       939    1.438         303       459        762        261       297       558      1,374    2,753    4,127
Total Base Coat                                          216       696       912        689    1,609    2,298        1,511    6,305      7,816       3,826     7,198   11,024       2,088    3,023      5,311       2,005     2,274    4,279    10,535   21,105   31,640
Expected Peica Incra.sa                                   22        58        80        174       250       424        532    1.267    1.799         1.775    2,087    3.862        1.345    1,300      2,645       1.386    1.998    2,394        51234    5.970   11,204
Total REpactad Coat of Pro-Jct                        Z 38   754              992          3                         2072  43    7572    3.605       5 65.601    2      14.886      3,633    4,303    7,956         3.391    3.282    6 673       15 769   27 075   42, 844
Poy 10, 1978



- 59 -
ANNEX 3
Page 4
GUYANA
BLACK BUSH IRRIGATION PROJECT
Local Staff Requirements and Estimated Cost
During Construction Period
Calendar Years
1978  1979  1980  1981  1982  1983   Total
------------(man-months)---------- (G$ '000)
1.  Administration, Engineering
and Supervision:
Project Manager                    6    12    12    12    12    12          112
Project Engineer                    -    12    12    12    12    12           82
Administrative Officer              6    12    12    12    12    12           66
Surveyors and Crews(4)              2     4      4      3     3      2       288
Drilling and Site Testing
Crews (2)                         2     2      2     1      -      -      112
Senior Surveyor                     6    12    12    12       -      -        32
Senior Inspectors (2)               -     6    24    24    24    12          45
Inspectors (6)                      -    24    48    72    72    72         115
Technicians (6)                    12    48    72    72    48    48          100
Draftsmen (4)                      12    48    48    24       -      -        44
Secretaries (2)                    12    24    24    24    24    24           44
Clerks (4)                          6    24    48    48    48    36           42
Drivers, boatmen, laborers,
others (10)                       2     8    10    10    10    10         120
Sub-total:                                             1,202
Miscellaneous operational
costs for vehicles, internal
travel, public services, materials
and supplies, and local support costs.                                      500
Sub-total:                                             1,702
2. Agricultural Extension, Applied
Research and Seed Production:
Ministry of Agriculture
Extension Division
Senior Agricultural Officer  -        6    12    12    12    12          67
Agricultural Officers (3)    -        -    36    36    36    36          96
Field Assistants (6)           -      -    36    72    72    72          82
Sub-total:                                               245
Applied Research
Senior Field Assistants (2)  -        -    24    24    24       -        25
Field Assistants (4)           -      -    48    48    48       -        40
Technicians (2)                -      -    24    24    24       -        24
Equipment Operators (2)        -      -    24    24    24       -        18
Laborers (10)                  -      -    10    10    10       -        72
Sub-total:                                               179
January 18, 1978



- 60 -
ANNEX 3
Page 5
GUYANA
BLACK BUSH IRRIGATION PROJECT
Local Staff Requirements and Estimated Cost
During Construction Period
Calendar Years
1978  1979  1980  1981  1982  1983   Total
------------(man-months)---------- (G$ '000)
Miscellaneous operational cost
for vehicles, internal travel,
public services, materials and
supplies                                                                   170
Sub-total:                                               594
Guyana Rice Board
Technical Assistance
Rice Specialists (6)           -    12    48    72    72    72         138
Rice Agronomist (1)            -     6    12    12    12    12          36
Field Assistants (4)           -     -    24    48    48    48          54
Sub-total:                                               228
Seed Production and Testingl/
Seed Production Specialist   -       -    12    12    12       -        18
Laboratory Technician          -     -    12    12    12    12          16
Technicians (2)                -     -    24    24    24       -        23
Sub-total:                                                57
Miscellaneous operational cost
for vehicles, internal travel,
public services, materials
and supplies                                                               120
Sub-total:                                               405
Total:                                             2 701
1/   Does not include staff presently  employed on seed farm.
January 18, 1978



- 61 -
ANNEX 3
Page 6
GUYANA
BLACK BUSH IRRIGATION PROJECT
List of Equipment
Estimated Cost
Number     CIF - US$ '000 Financing
1.  Administration, Engineering and Supervision:
Office equipment and supplies                        lot               20
Engineering equipment                                lot               20
Vehicles, standard or 4-wheel drive                   10               50
Concrete and soils laboratory equipment              lot               10
Drilling and site investigation equipment            lot               20
Sub-total:                        120      USAID
2.  Pumps, Motors and Auxiliary Equipment:
Irrigation pumps (1,800 cfs)                                        2,700
Drainage electric pumpsl/ (1,000 cfs)                               1,000
Sub-total:                      3,700      IFAD/IDA
3. Operation and Maintenance:
Draglines, 1/2 cuyd and 3/4 cuyd, 40 ft. boom         3               270
Excavators, back-hoe type, 1/2 cuyd                   1                80
Tractors, truck type, 170 hp, with angle dozer    1                    80
Tractors, farm, 85 hp                                 2                40
Graders, self-propelled, 100 hp, 12 ft. blade         2               120
Loaders, wheel type, 1.0 cuyd                         1                50
Rollers, drum type, tractor pulled                    3                50
Trucks, dump, 4 cuyd                                  4                70
Trucks, tank, water sprinkling                        2                15
Trucks, stake body, 4-ton                             2                25
Trucks, pickup, 1 ton                                 3                20
Trailers, farm, 4-wheel, 1/2 ton                      3                10
Vehicles, 4-wheel drive                               6                40
Boat:s and outboard motors                            3                10
Compressor, air, wheel mounted                        1                15
Conc:rete mixers, wheel mounted, 1/2 cuyd             2                 5
Motorcycles                                          10                10
Barge, fuel hauling, self-propelled, 2,000 gal.   1                    30
Shop and servicing equipment                         lot              150
Spare parts                                          lot               50
Sub-total:                      1,140      IFAD/IDA
1/ To be provided by Government from pumps on hand.
May 12, 1978



-62 -
ANNEX 3
Page 7
Estimated Cost
Number     CIF - US$ '000 Financing
4. Extension, Applied Research and Seed Production:
(a) Extension
Vehicles, 4-wheel drive                         6                35
Motorcycles                                     6                 6
Miscellaneous teaching and testing
materials and supplies                       lot                5
Sub-total:                         46      USAID
(b) Applied research and seed production
Seed drying, cleaning and sizing equipment  lot                  30
Farm machinery for seed farm and field
trial program                                lot               30
Equipment for seed testing laboratory and
field testing                                lot               10
Materials for applied research program         lot               10
Trucks, pick-up, and stake body                 4                30
Vehicles, 4-wheel drive                         4                25
Sub-total:                        135      USAID
5. On-Farm Development:
Tractors, track type, 75 hp or farm type with
flotation wheels, 100 hp                           9               540
Land levelers, tractor drawn, 35 ft. with
12-14 foot blade                                   9                90
Tractors, farm type, 85 hp with 2 or 3
blade mold board plow attachments                  3                60
Ditchers, tractor drawn, 36 inches                   2                20
Trucks, stake body, 4 tons                           2                 25
Vehicles, 4-wheel drive                              3                20
Trucks, pick-up, 1 ton                               3                20
Mobile service unit, truck mounted                   2                25
Sub-total:                        800      USAID
6. Rice Production and Processing:
Tractors, farm type, 65 hp, with disc or mold
board plow attachments                            40               560
Dryers, mechanical, oil burning                      4               160
Combines, rice, self-propelled 14 ft header         10               240
Sub-total:                        960      USAID
7.  Spare Parts                                                          200      USAID
Total:                          7,055
May 12, 1978



- 63 -
ANNEX 3
Page 8
GUYANA
BLACK BUSH IRRIGATION PROJECT
Consultant Services
--------- Calendar Year ----------
Type of Consultant               1978  1979  1980  1981  1982  1983   Total
------------- (man-months) ---------------
(a) Foreign
Headquarters Supervision        2     2      2      2     2      2       12
Team Leader (Guyana)            6    12    12    12    12        -       54
Planning Engineer               6.   12    12       -     -      -       30
Engineer, Field Surveys         6    12    12       -     -      -       30
Engineer, Design                6    12    12       -     -      -       30
Engineer, Design                -     6    12       -     -      -       18
Engineer, Mechanical            -     4      4      -     -      -        8
Engineers, Construction (2)  -        -    18    24    24    24          90
Engineer, Agricultural          -     -    12    12       6      -      30
Agronomist, Applied
Research and Seed Production -        -    12    12       6             30
Extension Training Officer   -        -    12    12       6    _        30
Sub-total:       26    60   120    74    56    26         362
(b) Local
Engineers, Assist. (2-3)        -    24    24    36    36    36        156
Engineer, Materials            _      6    12    12    12       -       42
Sub-total:        -    30    36    48    48    36         198
Total:       26    90   156   122   104    62        560
May 11, 1977



- 64 -
ANNEX 3
Page 9
GUYANA
BLACK BUSH IRRIGATION PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
IBRD Fiscal Year
and Semester                  Cumulative Disbursements at the End of Semester
Government and
IDA/IFAD       USAID    Other Financing    Total
--------------- (US$ Million) -----------------
1978
June 30, 1978                                  -                            -
1979
December 31, 1978                0.3          -              _               0.3
June 30, 1979                    0.4          0.3            -              0.7
1980
December 31, 1979                1.3          -              -               1.3
Jund 30, 1980                    2.2          1.3            0.2             3.7
1981
December 31, 1980                3.9          -              -               3.9
June 30, 1981                    5.7          4.7            3.0           13.4
1982
December 31, 1981                9.6          -              -               9.6
June 30, 1982                   13.5          6.0            8.7           28.2
1983
December 31, 1982               15.6          -              -              15.6
June 30, 1983                   17.8          7.5           10.9           36.2
1984
December 31, 19831'             18.9          -              -              18.9
June 30, 19841/                 20.0          7.5           15.3           42.8
1/ Estimated completion date.
2/ Estimated closing date.
May 19, 1978



GUYANA
BLACK BUSH IRRIGATION PROJECT
PROPOSED PROJECT ORGANIZATION
Ministry of Agriculture
L~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~JGyn AgiuGu                                                     Guyana
Marketing
evelopme                  Corporation
_  _  _       Drainage Bard                           I 
1~~~~ IriainIor
F ''    ,                                        -                                                               
II~~~~~~1  ~~~           Hydraulcs                  Land Development
Lands Department  |              uana Rice Board             Extension Division              Departmen                    Department        l
-    Project Manager   |                                                                                                        I
*             Co~~~~nsultants-Engineering
and Supervision                                                                                                                 _
LandI                                                       I
Lands                    Guyana Rice                    Extension                   Hydraulics                  Development
Division                     Board                       Division                     Division                      Division
* Land Titles             Credit and Production       0      Extension             0   Administration           0       On-Farm              *       Supervised            0     Distribution
and Leases                     Inputs                   Assistance and              and Coordination               Development                Agricultural Credit                 and
* Collection             *Machinery Services                 Training              * Fiscal Management          *  Administration of         0      Crop Loans                    Marketing
of Rents              *  Seed Production           *    Soil Testing           0  General Planning             Settlement Schemes         *  Development Loans                    of
and Taxes              *  Research & Field              and Fertilizer           *    Final Designs                                        * Technical Assistance              Food Crops
Trials                       Trials                   and Technical                                                    on
*   Rice Storage            0     Cultivation                    studies                                               Farm Management
Drying and Milling                Practices            0   Tender Process
*     Marketing             0   Water use and            *       Contract
*     Pest and                    Management                  Administration
Disease Control          0       Use of               0      Supervise
Improved Varieties             Construction
*   Operation and
Maintenance
*    Collection of
Project Charges
m _      MD < Statutory Body Attached to Ministry                                                                                                                                                      X 
__        Cooperating Agencies
World Bank - 17522



GUAYANA
BLACK BUSH IRRIGATION PROJECT
PROPOSED CONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT SCHEDULE
CALENDAR YEAR                                                                TOTAL
U.S. $
1979              1980              1981               1982              1983               1984           -000
CONSTRUCTION OF MAJOR CIVIL WORKS                                                         557                372
Berbice Pumping Station                                                            _   _                                                                                            929
Torani Canal Improvement                                                                                   294                                                                      294
Carije River Improvement                                        1                                           9                                                                       294
1 71              113
Manarabisi Pumping Station                                                         _   _   _ -       _   _                                                                          284
Block IlIl Scheme
Manarabisi and                                                                                                                                                                      480
Seaford Canal                                                                                 192          288
Improvements                                                                       -   i       ---   - 3      - 1
Black Bush Polder Pumping Station                                                        3 I    -   -227                                                                            568
B.B. Polder Main Canals & Drains                                                                           801                534                                                 1,780
Front Land Scheme                                                                                         4083,305                             3,30
a) Irrigation System                                                                                                                                                            11,021
b) Drainage System
c) Land Development
d) All-weather Roads
BUILDINGS                                   ~~~~~~~~181  449               170                                                                                        800
EQUIPMENT PURCHASE                                           30          603 0                                                                                                       120
Administratior, Engineering & Supervision                   3        _   T
2,040              80
Irrigation & Drainage Pumps                                                         _      0    -   _    6       |                                                                2,840
Operation & Maintenance                                                                              1 _ 3 -   _   -                                                               1,200
Extension. Applied Research & Seed Production                         1                  36                                                     1181
On-Farm Development                                                        200           400               260                                                                      860
Rice Production & Processing                                                             560 -   -  _              -                                                                960
Spare Parts                                                 50        150                                                                                                           200
MANAGEMENT & TECHNICAL SERVICES                              57         181811189
Engineering & Supervision                                  57            28        1|                      1            _     108         _       95                                667
Consultant Services                                        195        495                954               627                492        1   1  249                               3,012
Extension, Research & Seed Production                                    5                 06                                  67                 34
a) Ministry of Agriculture                                     _        5                60|  --                              6 - 67     -                         T               233
bl Guayana Rice Board                                          -   - _ 6    -       |   32  |       _       3                4 3_5 i -   _      3                         -        159
Project Preparation Facility                               280               1                                                                                                      280
Feasibility Study For Stage II                                             2        2                                                            711                                400
793       1,998              6.866             9,586              4,549              3,721                             27,513                i
World Bank-17521



GUYANA
BLACK BUSH IRRIGATION PROJECT
Present Land Use and Proposed Cropping Pattern
A.  Present Conditions                                                B.  Future Land Use & Cropping Pattern Without Proiect             C. Proposed Cropping Pattern at Proiect Full Development
Land          Land         Crop Area            Total      Cropping         Land       Land          Crop Area           Total    Cropping        Land      Land        Crop Area          Total        Cropping
Area          Area-         (Acres)           Crop Area   Intensity         Ares       Ares           (Acres)          Crop Area  Intensity    Area         Area          (Acres)        Crop Area    Intensity
(Acres)         (%)    Spring    Autumn         (Acres)       (             (Acres)      (7)      Spring    Autumn       (Acres)       (          (Acres)    (X7)   Spring    Aututm       (Acres)       n  n
Black Bush Frontlands       29.600        (56)       -          -             -           -             29,600    (56)          -          -           -           -          29,600   (56)        -          -          -              -
Cultivated Lands          19 000        100       2.280    17,500       19.780          104           19,000    100         2.980    17.510    20.490           108         25,500   100    14,540    23,280   37,820               128
Rice                                                                  14,000                                    74 2,800    12,600    15,400                  110         20,200    79    14,140    18,180   32,320               160
Sugarcane-               1,000          5      (1,000)    1,000        1,000          100            1,000       5       (1,000)    1,000       1,000         100          1,000      4      1,000      1,000    1,000            100
Food Crops                 200          1         180        100         280          140              200       1          180         110        290        145             500      2       400         300       700          171
Coconuts /               3,800         20      (3,800)    3,800        3,800          lOS            3,800      20       (3,800)    3,800       3,800         100          3,800    15    (3,800)    3,800    3,800               100
Non-Cultiv-ted Lands    10.600                                                                        10,600                                                                 4,100
Reef Soils               2,800                                                                       2,800                                                                 2,500
Arable Rice Lands        7,800                                                                       7,800                                                                  1,600
Block III Frontlands        19,400         (37)       -          -            -           -              19,400    (37)         -          -           -            -          19,400   (37)       -          -          -
Coltivated Lands          12,900        100       3.690    11.690       15,380          119           12,900    100         4.890    11,690    16.580           129          12,900   100       8.25       9.530   17_780            138
Rice                    12,000         93       3,600    10,800       14,400          120           12,000      93        4.,800    10,800     15,600         130          12,000     93      8.160      8,640   16,800            140
Food Croxq                 100          I          90         90          180         180               100      I            90         90        280        180             100      1         90         90       180           180
CoconutsL'                 800          6        (800)       800         800          100              800       6          (800)      800         800        100             800      6       (800)       800       800           100
Non-Cultivated Lands       6 500                                                                       6.500                                                                  6.500
Reef Soils               1,100                                                                       1, 100                                                                 1,10
Arable Rice Lands        5,400                                                                       5,400                                                                  5,400
Black Bosh Po1der-'          4.000          (7)      -          -             -           -              4,000      (7)         -          -           -            -           4.000    (7)       -          -          -              -
Cultivated Lands           4.000        100         375      2.625       3,000           75            4,000    100            675     2,675       3,350         84           4 000   100       2,480      3,330    5.810            145
Rice                     2,500         63        _         2,250       2,250           90            2,500      63           300     2,300       2,600        104           2,500    63       2,000      2,250    4.250            170
Food Crops               1,500         37         375        375          750          50            1,500      37           375        375        750         50           1,500    37         480      1,080    1,560            104
Total Proiect:              53,000         100                   -            -           -              53,000    100          -          -           -            -          48,800    100       -          -                         -
Coltivated Lands          35.900        (68)      6,345    31,815       38,160          106           35,900    (68)        8,545    31,875    40,420           113         42,400      87    25,270    36.140   6140.41             15
Rice      2/            28,500         79       5,700    25.650       31.350          110           28,500      79        7,900    25,700    33,600           118          34,700    82    24,300    29,070   53,370               154
Sgarcane-                1,000          3      (1,000)    1,000        1,000          105            1,000       3       (1,000)    1,000        1,000        100           1,000      2    (1,000)    1,000    1,000              100
Food Crops               1,800          5         645        565       1,210           67            1,800       5           645        575      1,220         68           2,100      5        970      1 470    2 440            116
Coconuts                 4,600         13      (4,600)    4,600        4,600          100            4.600      13       (4,600)    4,600       4,600         100           4,600    1t    (4,600)    4,600    4 600               100
Non-cultivated Lands    17 100           32        -          -             _           _             17100        32         -          _           _            _           6 400    1         -          -          -              _
1<
1/  Figures in ( ) show the three areas of Frontlands, Block III and Black Bush Polder -
as percentage of the total project area.  Those given for individual crops are the
percentage of the coltivated land in that area.
2/ Crops occupying land all year.
3/ Includes only the area of the polder benefitting fro. project works.
October 18, 1977



GUYANA
BLACK BUSH IRRIGATION PROJECT
Cropping Pattern, Production, Farmgate Prices.
Production Costs, and Incremental Value of Production
Rice                                                                  Food Crops
Autumn      Spring        Total       Cropping                                               Cropping
Land        Crop        Crop          Crop       Intensity   Sugarcane   Coconutsl/         Crop         Intensity    Total
(%)                                                    (%)
WITHOUT PROJECT
Land Area (acres)                            28,500                                                           1,000        4,600           1,800                     35,900
Cropped Land Area (acres)                                 25,700       7,900       33,600           118       1,000        4,600           1,220            68       40,420
Yields (tons (bags) acre)21                             1.01(16.1)  1.09(17.5) 1.03(16.5)                          3.23/   1,250               3.35
Production (tons)_/                                       25,957       8,611       34,568                     3,200            5.75        4,087                     41,855
Prices (G$/ton)5/                                            296         296          296                       277            0.10          694
Gross Value of Production (G$ '000)                        7,683       2,549       10,232                       886          575           2,838                     14,531
Cost of Production (G$/acre)                                                          185.40                    422           78.60          800
Cost of Production (G$ '000)                                                        6,229                       422          362             976                      7,989
Net Value of Production (G$ '000)                                                   4,003                       464          213.4         1,862                      6,542                 OD
WITH, PROJECT
Land Area (acres)                            34,700                                                           1,000        4,600           2,100                     42,400
Cropped Land Area (acres)                                 29,070      24,300       53,370           154       1,000        4,600           2,440           116       69,810
Yields (tons (bags) acre)2/                             1.22(19.8) 1.32(21.1)  1.26(20.3)                          3.63/   1,250               3.79
Production (tons)4/                                       35,465      32,076       67,541                     3,600            5.75        9,248
Prices (G$/ton)5./                                           296         296          296                       277             0.10         694
Gross Value of Production (G$ '000)                       10,500       9,500       20,000                       997          575           6,418                     27,990
Cost of Production (G$/acre)                                                           238.85                   467            78.60         932
Cost of Production (0$ '000)                                                       12,747                       467           362          2,274                     15,850
Net Value of Production (G$ '000)                                                   7,253                       530           213.4        4,144                     12,140
Incremental Production (tons)                                9,508      23,465       32,973                       800                        5,161
Incremental Net Value of Production (G$ '000)                                         3,250                         66                       2,282                      5,598
1/  Yield in nuts/acre/year.  Production in million nuts.  Price per nut.
2/  In long tons (2,240 lb) = 16 bags of paddy (140 lb).
3/  Yields are given in sugar.  Assumes 11 tons cane/l ton sugar.                                                                                                                     m X
4/  In long tons (2,240 lb).                                                                                                                                                           " u
5/ Based on price of G$ 18.50 per 140-lb bag of paddy = G$ 0.132/lb = G$ 296/long ton.
6/ US$2.2 million equivalent.
October 31, 1977



GUYANA
3LA.K BUSH IRRIGATION PROJECT
3.5 Acre Farm Budget
(in G$)
Land       Cropped                                       1/                   2/
Crop          Area         Area         Yield        Price           GVP               In uts         Gross Benefits
-Ac.)      (Ac.-)        (T/Ac.)      (   )        (Per ac. per      (Per ac. per      (Per ac.)  (Total)
crop)             crop)
3/
Rice          3.3         5.0           1.25         296           37              190.140           179.60       898
Food Crops      .2         .3           4.0          694           2776             -469.26          2308.70       693
Total         3.5         5.3                                                                                    1,591
Cropping Intensity: 151%
Gross Farm Benefits
Less:  Hired labor                                                 -
Family labor                                              276
Interest V/                                                98                           374
Net Farm Benefits                                                                                 1,217
Project Charges
Operation and maintenance                                                                  154
Investment recovery
Net Farm Income                                                                                   1, 63
Estimated Net Income Wfithout Project                                                               592
Incremental Net income                                                                              471
1t/Gross value of production.                                                                                                   m m
2/ Production costs less labor.
3/ 20 140 lb. bags.                                                                                                               U.
or/ 9% per annum.
June 28, 1977



GTU'ANA
BLACK BUSH IRRIGATION PROJECT
8.0 Acre Farm Budget
Land       Cropped                                       1/                   2/
Crop          Area          Area        Yield       Price           GVP                Inputs         Gross  Benefits
(Ac.)       (Ac.)        (T/Ao.) (- /Ton)          (Per ac. per      (Per ac. per      (Per ac.)  (Total)
crop)             crop)
3/
Rice          7.8         12.5          1.3         296          389.80            196.91            187.89       2,349
Food Crops     .2           .75         3.9         69h         2706.6             460.00           2246.60         562
Total         8.0         12.75                                                                                   2,911
Orooping Intensity: 160%
Gross Farm Benefit                                                                                                    CI
Less:  Hired labor                                               49.00
Fpmily labor                                             414.4o
Interest  4/                                             236.34                          699
Net Farm Benefits                                                                                  2,212
Project Charges
Operation and maintenance                                                                    352
Investment recovery                                                                          120
Net Farm Income                                                                                    1,740
Estimated Net Income Without project                                                               1,152
Incremental Net Income                                                                               5893
z:
1/ 'ross value of production.
2/ Production costs less labor.
3/ 14 10 lb. bags.
4/ 9% on wvorking capital.
June 28, 1977



GUYANA
BLACK BUSH IRRIGATION PROJECT
15.0 Acre Farm Budget
(in G)2
Land       Cropped               ( G                                         2
Crop          Area          Area       Yield        Price          GVP               Inputs         Gross Benefits
(Ac.)      (A.          (T/Ac.)     ($/Ton)      (Per ac. per      (Per ac. per      (Per ac.
crop)             corp)
3/
Rice          13.3       23.5          1.3          296          384.80            201.12           183.68       4,316
Food Crops     1.2        1.5          3.9          694        2,706.60            483.oo         2,224          3,336
Total         15.0       25.0                                                                                    7,652
Cropping Intensity: 167X~
Gross Farm Benefits
Less: Hired labor                                                         818.4C                                            e
F!mily labor                                                        768.oo
Interest 4/                                                         525.74                        2 112
Net Farm Benefits
Project Charges
Operation and maintenance                                                                              660
Investment recovery                                                                                    525
Net Farm Income                                                                                             773 i
Estimated Net Income W-dithout Project                                                                      2,884
Incremental Net Income                                                                                      1,471
1/ Gross value of production.
2/ Production costs less labor.
3/ 22  140 lb. bags.
:/ 9% on working capital.                                                                                                      tn
June 28, 1977



GUYANA
BLACK BUSH IRRIGATION PROJECT
28.0 Acre Farm Budget
(in G$)
Land       Cropped                                       1/                   2/
Crop           Area          Area       Yield        Price           GVP              Inputs           Gross  Bene its
(Ac)       (Ac)          (T7/c)       ($/Ton)      (per ac. per    (per ac. per         (per ac.)   Total)
crop)            crop)
Rice           28         50.4          1.3          296           384.80           187.85             196.95       9,926
Food Crops    -              -
Total          28         50.4
Cropping Intensity: 180
Gross Farm Benefits
Less:  Hired labor                                              1,412.20
Family labor                                               296.0C
Interest    4/                                             952.46                       2 66,
Net Farm Benefits                                                                                    7,26
Project Charges
Operation and maintenance                                                                      1,232
Investment recovery                                                                            1 400
Net Farm Income                                                                                       ml; t
Estimated Net Income Without Project                                                                 3,857
Incremental 1jet Income                                                                                777
17 Gross value of production.                                                                                                   a'
2/ Production costs less labor.
2/ 22 140 lb. bags.
9_ 9f on working capital.
June 28, 1977



GUYANA
BLACK BUSH IRRIGATICN PROJECT
Rioe Purchases, Exports and Local Sales by Guyana Rioe Board
Calendar Year
Unit     1969     1970      1971     1972    1973    1974      1975      1976
1/
Deliveries to GRB      Thousand      69.8     80.3      78.5     81.2    75.1    77.1      106.3   115.4
tons
Average Value          G$/ton        216      208       215      215     259      354      439       n.a.
Value of Deliveries    G$/million   15.1      16.7      16.9     17.5    19.4    27.3    146.7    n.a.
Export Quantity        Thousand      62.3     59.3      67.5     69.7    47.8    50.8      81.9      76.3
tons 1/
Earnings               G$ million   19.2      81.1      21.5     25.3    25.0    49.0      84.8      78.1
Average Vnlue          G$/ton        308      305       316      362     523      965     1035      1023
Local Sales            Thousand      11.0     13.1      12.4     12.8    19.7    24.9      31.8      33.6
Quantity              tons l/
Earnings               G$ million    2.8       3.2       3.0      3.1     5.1      7.0      8.8      n.a.
Average Valuel/        G$/ton        2)49     236       242      245     259      279      277      n.a.
Long tons (2,240 pounds)
2/ Since February 1, 1978, the price of rice locally sold is G$ 500.00 per ton.                              X x
Source:  Ministry of Economic Development, Government of Guyana.
March 30, 1978



GUYANA
BLACK BUSH IRRIGATION PROJECT
Projection of Economic Prices
Unit           Economic Prices                  Financial Prices
(1987-2027)                        (1977-2027)
Rice (milled) Ton                  852                                460
Food crops    Ton                  694                                694
Sugar         Ton                  868                                277
Coconuts      Nut                   .10                               .10
1/In constant 1977 prices in G$ at farmgate.
January 12, 1978
e m
X 
I" 0"



- 75 -
ANNEX 6
Page 3
GUYANA
BLACK BUSH IRRIGATION BROJECT
Rice Price Structure
(G$)
1977       1978       1979   1980-2027
Milled Rice:
f.o.b. Georgetown-/ (per ton)                   804        917     1,034      1,171
Less:  Marketing costs (per ton)                 77         77         77         77
Processing costs (per ton)              250        250        250        250
Total cost (per ton)                    327        327        327        327
f.o.b. Price Less Costs (per ton)               477        590        707       844
Value of By-products (from 1 ton of rice)         7          7          7          7
Economic Farmgate Price (per ton
milled rice)                                  484        597        714       852
Economic Farmgate Price (per 140 lb
bag paddy)                                     19.40      24.00      28.70     34.20
Financial Farmgate Price (per 140 lb
bag paddy)                                    18.50      18.50      18.50      18.50
1/ Prices are in constant 1977 G$.
February 7, 1978



Gu"YANA
BLACK BUSH IRRIGATION PROJECT
'Fertilizer price Structure
1977       1978       1979        1980       1985
UREA - C.I.F. Georgetown (G$/ton)              385.50      404.78     420.00      443.32     549.72
Add:  handling (per ton)                   16.50     170.00       17.30      18.20       18.20
transport and distribution(per ton) 34.00       36.oo       35.65      37.76       37.76
Farmgate price (per ton)                       436.oo     457.78      472.95      499.28     605.68
Economic price (per 112 lb. bag)                21.80       22.89      23.65       24.96      30.28
Financial price (per 112 lb. bag)               15.72        -           -          -           -
TSP - J.I.F. Georgetown (G$/ton)               374.62     393.25    J419.54       445.80     579.54
Add:  handling (per ton)                   16.50      17.00       17.30       18.20      18.20
transport and distribution(per ton) 34.00       35.00       35.65      37.76       37.76
Farmgate price (per ton)                       425.12      445.25     472.49      501.76     635.50
Economic price (per 112 lb. bag)                21.25       22.26      23.62       25.09      31.78
Financial price (per 112 lb. bag)               17.54        -           -          -           _
1/ Prices given in constant 1977 G$.
June 8, 1977
tD m
>4



- 77 -
ANNEX 7
Page 1
GUYANA
BLACK BUSH IRRIGATION PROJECT
Guyana Rice Board
Income and Expenditure Account
(G$ Million)
1973           1974            1975            1976            1977
INCOME
Local Rice Salesi/                           5.05            9.78           8.70            9.10            N.A.
Export Rice Sales                           23.86          37.37           75.19           78.13
Total Rice Sales:                  28.91           47.15           83.89           87.23          82.42
EXPENDITURE
Cost of Rice Sales                          23.36          28.19           56.69           59.69           64.75
Gross Profit on Rice Sales                   5.55          18.96           27.20           27.54           17.67
lTotal:                            28.91           47.15           83.89           87.23          82.42
Gross Profit                                   5.55           18.96          27.20           27.54           17.67
Profit or (Loss) on:
Rice Factories                            (0.18)          (0.10)         (4.03)          (8.38)          (6.50)
State Farms                                0.44           0.26            1.36            0.56            1.54
Stock Feed Mill                           (0.04)          0.09            0.23           (0.37)           -
Rice Wa                                    -              (0.01)          -                               _
Rice Flour Mill                            -               _              _               _               _
Other Income                               0.11           0.08            0.16            0.24            0.16
Total:                              5.88           19.28           24.92           19.59           12.86
Less
Administration and Other Expenses            2.07            2;95            5.96           6.61            7.25
Net Income:                         3.81           16.33           18.96           12.98            5.61
Less Grants and Aids to Rice IndustryY       3.33            9.46           9.58            9.61            8.00
Surplds/(Deficit):                  0.48            6.87            9.38            3.37           (2.39)
1/ Implicit subsidy on local sales (G$ Million):
1975         5.90
1976         5.35
1977         7.47
2/ Includes producer subsidies, crop incentives, bonus, etc.
N.B. Only the 1973 and 1974 figures are audited; the other data are "interim."
January 12, 1978



GUYANA
BLACK BUSH IRRIGATION PROJECT
Guy-na Rice Board
Balance Sheet
(G$ Million)
September 30                                                                                     September 30
1973      1974       1975       1976       1977                                                   1973       1974       1975       1976       1977
ASSETS                                                                                            LIABILITIES
Current Assets:                                                                                  Current Liabilities:
Stocks and Stores                  6.84      13.70      35.37      38.18      42.28              Sundry Creditors                    4.64        8.74       6.05       2.00       4.47
Debtors                            4.72       3.60       9.10       8.75      13.47              Bank Overdrafts                      9.10       9.38     24.94       34.34     49.48
Pre-paid Expenses                  0.38       0.62       98395
Cash in Hand and at Banks          0.78       0.85       0.67       -          1.31                  Total Current Liabilities:   13.74        18.12      30.99      36.34      53.95
Total Current Assets:          12.72      18.77      45.13      46.93      67.06            Long-term Loans                       -           -         2.89       3.92        3.63
Fixed Assets                        10.11      12.80      14.28      14.41      13.37            Government of Guyana Debentures   24.89          28.75      30.59      37.15      44.02
Works in Progress                    25.58     30.80      35.29      49.68      62.39            General Reserves                      13.21      13.99      20.85      30.24      33.61
Deferred Receivable (Loans)                                                                      Net Surplus                            0.48       6.87       9.38       3.37      (2.39)
Net of Provision for Bad Debts   3.91         5.36       -          -          -
Total Assets:                  52.32      67.73      94.70   111.02      132.82                  Total Liabilities:              52.32      67.73      94.70    111.02    132.82
N.B.  only the 1973 and 1974 figures are audited; the other data are "interim."
January 12, 1978



- 79 -
ANNEX 7
Page 3
GUYANA
BLACK BUSH IRRIGATION PROJECT
Summary of Annual Cash Incomes for Representative Farm Sizes
Range of farm sizes (ac)               0-5       5-10      10-20    20-50
Number of farms                       3348        1465      832        68
Average farm size (ac)                 3.5           8       15       28
Area in each size (ac)           11718      11718    12474      1890
Percent of total area               31         31        33        5
Estimated net farm income
after family labour allowance
and project charges (G$)         1063        1740     4335      4634
Estimated net farm income
without project (G$)               592       1152      2884     3857
Incremental net income (G$)           471         588      1471      777
US$ equivalent (US$)                  185         231       577      305
June 29, 1977



- 80 -
ANNEX 7
Page 4
GUYANA
BLACK BUSH TIRRIGATION PROJECT
Cost and Rent Recovery Indices-/
(GS)
Representative size farms                          3.5ac.        8ac.        15ac.         28c.          Total
I                  ~~~~~Proj.ect
1.  Gross xalue of .roduction                       1158          2313       6149          9138          (G$'000)
2.  Less:  Production (cash) Costs                   473          1252       3668          6274
3.  Equals:  Net cash income (1-2)                   685          1061       2481          2864
4.  Less:  Depreciation                               -             -          -             -
5.  Imputed value of family labor                    141           182        170            98
6.  Imputed value of management serwices              35            53        124           143
7.  Imputed return on own capital                     -             -          -             -
8.  Allowance for risk/uncertainty                    68           106        248           286
9.  Ganeral taxes                                     -             -          -             -
10.  Equals rent/surplus                              441           717       1939          2331            27060
11.  Rent as a percentage  of net cash income          64            67         78            82
12.  0 & M charges                                     73           168        315            588
13.  Capital charges                                   -            120        525          1400
14.  lotal direct charges                              73           288        840           1988            9754
15.  Rent recovery index (14 .10)                     16            40         43             85             36%
16.  Public sector outlays (capital -0- O&M)                                                                59726
17.  Cost recovery index (14 416)                                                                             16%
18.  Farmers income PC, in project year 8             249           438       1051           1261
at full development
19.  Estimated critical consumption level
(CCL same project year)                         N.A.
20.  Estimated tiational  PCI - 1985                  N.A.
a/All items are incremental.  Total project charges rents and outlays have been discounted at 10%
October 31, 1977



- 81 -
ANNEX 8
Page 1
GUYANA
BLACK BUSH IRRIGATION PROJECT
Incremental Economic Benefits
1978         1979         1980         1981         1982         1983         1984       1985-2027
---------------C-------------USS                 '000)
I. Frontlands
A. Without Project
Rice                                 543          815        1,167        1,212        1,291        1,368        1,468        1,501
Food Crops                           120          120          120          121          122          123           124          124
Sugarcane                            736          816          902          902          902          902          902           902
Coconuts                              69           69           69           69           69            69           69           69
Total:                     1.468        1.820        2 258        2.304        2.384        2.462        2.563        2.596
B. With Project
Rice                                 543          815        1,315        1,601        2,147        2,774        3,790         4,162
Food Crops                           120          120          201          233           288          346          422          449
Sugarcane                            736          816          949        1,061        1,061        1,061        1,061         1,061
Coconuts                              69           69           69           69           69            69           69           69
Total:                     1.468        1.820        2,534        2.964        3.565        4.250        5.342        5.741
Incremental Benefits (B-A)                    0            0          276          660        1,181        1,788        2,779        3,145
tI. Block III
A. Without Project
Rice                                 542          863        1,280        1,354        1,474        1,597         1,772        1,819
Food Crops                            84           84           84           84            84           84           84           84
Coconuts                              16           16           16           16            16           16           16           16
Total:                       642          963        1,380        1.454        1.574        1,697        1.872        1.919
B. With Project
Rice                                 542          863        1,348        1,418        1,574        1,792         2,086        2,181
Food Crops                             84           84           86           88           94          100          107          111
Coconuts                               16          16           16            16           16           16           16           16
Total:                       642          963        1,450        1.522        1.684        1,908        2.209        2,308
Incremental Benefits (B-A)                    0            0           70           68          110          211          337          389
III. Polder
A. Without Project
Rice                                   92          138          197          205          216          231          250          255
Food Crops                           383           383          383          383          383          383          383          383
Total:                       475          521          580          588          599          614          633          638
B. With Project
Rice                                   92         138           216          257          332          427          563          610
Food Crops                           383           383          492          550          648          755          892          941
Total:                       475          521          708          807          980        1.182        1.455        L1 5
Incremental Benefits (B-A)                    0            0          128          219          381          568          822           913
Total Incremental Benefits                    0            0          474          947        1,672        2,567        3,938        4,447
February 8, 1978



- 82 -
ANNEX 8
Page 2
GUYANA
BLACK BUSH IRRIGATION PROJECT
Economic Costs and Benefitsl'
Project Cost
Operation and
Year         Capital     Maintenance        Total          Incremental Benefits
------------------------- (US$TO00) --------------------------
1. (1978)         537              -            537
2. (1979)       1,653              -          1,653                      -
3. (1980)       6,228             50          6,278                    474
4. (1981)      10,985            129         11,114                    947
5. (1982)       5,356             67          5,423                  1,672
6. (1983)       3,859            121          3,980                  2,567
7. (1984)           -            185            185                  3,938
8-28; (1985-2005)      -            225            225                  4,447
29. (2006)       3,700            225          3,925                  4,447
30-50. (2007-2027)      -            225            225                  4,447
1/ In constant 1977 prices.
February 7, 1978



4,i>> ~                                                                     f: 0 GUYANA
BLACK BUSH IRRIGATION PROJECT
Proiect Areas
Project Areas
Project Road
---Drainage Canals
Distributary Canals
N          LZ      Homestead Areas
Coastal Road
Estate Bou ndrwies
A   L   B    I   N   0                            ~~~~~~~~~~~No 27   Estatte Numbers
Bl s Bu G   A                 UR                              <          
C,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~U
E; S                                 _-Tu A\ T   E                           -0 
lvvrJtb^vnlssfits   IVE S TO K  A TA EBISI0
______________p_A_                                                                                                           0: 
::  ,4   %   h .                                                    /       S K E L  O N  A- C             ' J A N DD 
<1!2~~~~~~~~~~~               I V E 5 T 0 C K         M A N A R                 SA  T I  T I    klrn2/        0M 
-r r0ti   A N j,_.d&It- -  M --beilr  L:j






IBRD  12979
t              t-n        (n      sI                ''VT                                           tYX''  DE  ]'f'?~~~~~~~I  A  ' 
f   '                                                     I              \                                                  f / z g  :~~---N-'7  
\,                              e  }                      (                 . \                           SR.             /<l 7:0-:~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 'N' 
ATAN
A T                     $ L                                A N T IJ                                                                                      ," 0        
F                    /                         BLCKBAHLRRIATIN  PRJC '7~     o     
''c' >A' ~                                 PROE  AREA                                            - PUMPIYG                                 A
'A   \   9  AMST~ERDAMI               -STMJAN    ~/%1 RIAI-Nk\                                                                                )
IOIT~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Al.S 1,17UTAN
SASUESTATE  -             oBLACK B,SH             V 5% ANA RASBA.,     o                                            
<   ACK  [UL-CS                                                       -tN
4           "           /7                   /~~~~~~~~~~~~~1     A I                                                         -
Z~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ,/                                       vESTCCKRPAL                                             '         "
aE k~~~~~~ 
I `~~~~~~~~                                                                       t~II
I ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~' ~ ~ ~     ~         ~          ~         ~          
GUYN
A nL'&,~~~~~ U    ~   ~       GeeKa LocaionAra                                                                               1A
PAN-USED      PROECT RODE'  NIRUNAI
K-'  RN-P NA PLANTNL                       -TE-'01 O-D."
GUYANATRYCAAL
ALAN ST 1SA7



