Document of
FILE COPY                             The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2335-GUA
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO
GUYANA
FOR THE
BLACK BUSH IRRIGATION PROJECT
May 19, 1978
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perforinance of
their offcial duties. Its eontents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Guyana dollar (G$)
G$1.00        = US$0.39
G$1.0 million = US$390,000
US$1.00       = G$2.55
ABBREVIATIONS
CARICOM     - Caribbean Common Market
CIDA        - Canadian International Development Agency
D & I Board - Drainage and Irrigation Board
GMC         - Guyana Marketing Corporation
GRB         - Guyana Rice Board
GUYSUCO     - Guyana Sugar Company
IDB         - Inter-American Development Bank
IFAD        - International Fund for Agricultural Development
IRRI        - International Rice Research Institute
LDD         - Land Development Division
MAG         - Ministry of Agriculture
MARDS       - Mahaicony Abary Rice Development Station
UKODM       - U.K. Overseas Development Ministry
USAID       - U.S. Agency for International Development
GOVERNMENT OF GUYANA
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
GUYANA
BLACK BUSH IRRIGATION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
BORROWER:                    Guyana
BENEFICIARY:                 Ministry of Agriculture
AMOUNT:                      US$10.0 million
TERMS:                       50 years, including 10 years of grace
PROJECT DESCRIPTION:         The project seeks to increase Guyana's export
earnings through rice exports, in which the
country has comparative advantage. Under the
project, 6,000 families, of which 98Z fall
below the poverty line, would benefit directly.
Increased production of rice and food crops
on about 75,500 acres of cultivated land
would be achieved through rehabilitation
and improvement of irrigation and drainage
systems, and roads and on-farm development
and improvement of agricultural supporting
services. The project includes establishing
new pumping plants, enlargement of main canals
and distributaries, construction of rice
drying and storage facilities, supply of farm
machinery and maintenance equipment, applied
research, seed production, training of
extension agents and farmers, establishment
of an extension service, and consultant
services for design and construction of civil
works and for strengthening agricultural
development. The project faces three principal
risks: (i) Government's ability to provide
domestic financing; (ii) the Guyana Rice
Board's ability to manage the rice industry
properly; and (iii) shortage of experienced
professional and technical staff. To help
minimize these risks, Guyana would (i)
utilize $2.5 million in local currency
resources generated from a proposed line of
credit from Canada for commodities, and the
financing from all the other cofinanciers
will finance a moderate proportion of local
costs; (ii) secure technical assistance to
strengthen the capabilities of the Guyana
Rice Board; and (iii) secure in-service
training of staff by project consultants.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
ESTIMATED COST:                     --------------- US$ Million --------------
Local     Foreign         Total   % of Total
Civil Works                    6.785        8.815        15.600      36.4
Buildings                      0.559        0.241         0.800       1.9
Equipment, including
pumps                     0.361        6.000         6.361      14.8
Engineering and
Supervision               0.667         -            0.667       1.6
Consultant Services            0.297        2.715         3.012       7.0
Extension, Research
and Seed Production       0.382         -            0.382       0.9
Project Preparation
Facility                   -           0.280         0.280       0.7
Feasibility Study              0.100        0.300         0.400       0.9
Contingencies:
Physical                  1.374        2.754         4.128       9.6
Price                     5.234        5.970        11.204      26.2
TOTAL              15.759       27.075        42.834    100.0
FINANCING PLAN:                            ---- US$ Million -----
Total       % of Total
IDA                                    10.0           23
IFAD                                   10.0           23
USAID                                   7.5           18
IDB                                     6.0           14
Government and CIDA /1                  9.3           22
TOTAL                        42.8          100
ESTIMATED DISBURSEMENTS:               ------------- US$ Million -------------
FY79   FY80   FY81   FY82   FY83   FY84
IDA, Annual                  0.4    0.7    1.8    3.9    2.1    1.1
Cumulative Totals            0.4    1.1    2.9    6.8    8.9   10.0
RATE OF RETURN:                 13.0%
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT:         Report No. 1714b, dated May 19, 1978.
1/   Includes CIDA (US$2.5 million) in local currency.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF IDA TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
-ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO GUYANA
FOR THE BLACK BUSH IRRIGATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to Guyana for the equivalent of US$10.0 million on standard
IDA terms to help finance the Black Bush irrigation project. Cofinancing
arrangements with the International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD),
the US Agency for International Development (USAID), and the Inter-American
Development Bank (IDB) for US$23.5 million are about to be concluded. In
addition, it is expected that the Canadian International Development Agency
(CIDA) will contribute US$2.5 million equivalent in local currency generated
from a commodity import credit now being negotiated.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        The Bank's most recent economic report (Economic Memorandum on
Guyana, Report No. 1544-GUA, dated June 7, 1977) was distributed to the
Executive Directors on June 17, 1977. Updating economic missions have
visited Guyana in August and November 1977 and in March 1978. Basic data
are shown in Annex I.
Background
3.        The economic activity and population of Guyana are concentrated
along a narrow coastal strip where sugar and rice are grown. With the excep-
tion of bauxite mining, the vast hinterland remains undeveloped. The more
advanced mining sector has assumed increasing importance in the economy; both
the sugar and rice industries are relatively efficient. Economic development
has been retarded by a difficult physical environment, a limited resource base,
and by sharp fluctuations in output and in income stemming from the vulner-
ability of the economy to exogenous shocks such as weather and fluctuations
in international prices and demand. As a consequence, income, while fairly
evenly distributed, is among the lowest (US$540 per capita in 1976) of any
country in the Western Hemisphere. Real growth of the economy in recent
years has been highly variable, but on average little more than the increase
in population. Agricultural growth has been slow, export performance uneven.
It has not been possible to reduce the persistent high level of unemployment
which reached over 15% in 1977.
4.        Since independence in 1966, the development strategy of Guyana
has been to increase the participation of the public sector in the economic
activity of the country and to promote producer, consumer and marketing co-
operatives. The Government has expanded state enterprises, created new state-
owned financial institutions, and nationalized the country's bauxite/alumina
and sugar industries. The growing role of the public sector is reflected in
the increase of its share of gross domestic capital formation from 40% in
1968 to 90% in 1976.



-2-
5.        In recent years, the country's economy has been adversely affected
by a number of changes in external economic conditions. A serious balance of
payments situation developed in 1973 when adverse weather conditions and a
depressed aluminum market led to diminished export receipts, forcing the
Government into the Eurodollar market. The same year, public sector savings
deteriorated sharply as a result of a large wage increase to government
employees. The quadrupling of oil prices at the end of the year delivered
the final blow, leaving the economy severely weakened at the beginning of 1974
with critical balance of payments and budgetary management problems. However,
the boom in sugar prices later that year, an improvement in weather conditions
and the strengthening of the world aluminum market, unexpectedly brightened
the economic picture. As a result, average annual export receipts in 1974 and
1975 were more than double the level in 1973, more than compensating for the
steep rise in the import bill. Real GDP grew by an annual average of 7% in
1974 and 1975. Moreover, the introduction of a progressive tax on sugar ex-
ports, with rates which rose with increasing world prices of sugar, permitted
the Government to utilize the windfall to finance a major expansion in public
sector investment in 1975 and to accumulate almost US$70 million in foreign
exchange reserves. As a consequence, in 1976, despite the decline of sugar
prices back to more normal levels and despite significant production short-
falls in bauxite, alumina and rice, resulting from poor weather, the autho-
rities had sufficient resources available to maintain high import levels and
to continue expanding the ambitious investment program begun in 1975. By the
end of 1976, however, Guyana's gross foreign exchange reserves had been almost
completely depleted.
6.        With the end of the sugar boom, Guyana is belatedly confronting the
full impact of the 1973 petroleum price increase. The necessary adjustment
has been made particularly difficult by the fact that the temporary flood of
sugar earnings led to a greatly expanded level of public sector investment
and a resulting high import bill, neither of which can be sustained. In
addition, a sizable expansion of Central Government current expenditures in
1976, coupled with the drop in sugar revenues, and continuing consumer sub-
sidies led to a deterioration in gross public sector savings in 1976 to about
1% of GDP. This occurred at a time when the growing participation of the
public sector in the economy and a shrinking private investment made a strong
public sector savings performance important for financing investment at an
adequate level. Investment reached almost 40% of GDP in 1976. One consequence
of this was a current balance of payments deficit of over 30% of GDP. In
absolute terms, the deficit exceeded US$135 million and gross international
reserves fell from US$100 million to US$27 million during the year.
Recent Economic Developments
7.        While Guyana's balance of payments improved somewhat in 1977 as a
result of commodity and travel restrictions introduced by the Government, the
country continued to lose foreign exchange reserves. Exports declined from
their already low 1976 level. Sugar exports were especially hard-hit by low
world prices, a poor spring sugar crop in 1977, the loss of a bilateral
contract, and the devastating impact of a 4-1/2-month long sugar strike.
Rice exports also dropped in the first part of the year as a consequence of



-3-
bad weather and resulting low production levels in 1976; despite record pro-
duction levels in 1977, because of a late autum harvest, exports for the year
as a whole did not show any increase over 1976. As a result, notwithstanding
a 13% rise in bauxite and alumina receipts, total export receipts fell
slightly below 1976 levels. The Government's attempts to contain imports
last year through expenditure cutbacks and commodity and travel restrictions
were successful in reducing imports; nevertheless, the current account
deficit was about US$100 million in 1977. The terms of trade, although
improved when compared with 1976, continued adverse to Guyana. Dwindling
net capital inflows, affected by sharply reduced foreign exchange disburse-
ments in the investment program, were inadequate to fill the gap. Increased
short-term deposits at the Bank of Guyana from Venezuela and Brazil only
partially compensated for dwindling net capital inflows. As a result, net
foreign exchange reserves were highly negative and the country had accumulated
about US$40 million in commercial arrears by the end of the year.
8.        As a consequence of the import cutback, investment reductions,
modest growth in bauxite/alumina output, and the reduction in sugar production
consequent to the strike, real GDP growth fell by 6.2% in 1977. At the same
time, the removal of some consumer subsidies, in addition to further import
restrictions on consumer goods resulted in an estimated 11% rate of inflation
in 1977.
9.        During 1977 the Government's import reductions were accompanied by
an approximate 30% cutback in public sector investment. Essentially, the
Government continued high-priority ongoing projects to which external finan-
cing was attached, and postponed the completion of other projects. Central
Government financing of public corporation investment has been virtually eli-
minated, and only those corporations which generated their own internal and
external financing are proceeding with capital spending.
10.       Unfortunately, the Government's investment cutbacks were accompanied
by further deterioration in public sector savings, reflecting the reduction
in sugar revenues, losses in the operations of several public enterprises,
as well as the impact of the minimum wage increase on the Central Government
wage bill. As a consequence, despite cutbacks in Central Government current
expenditures, public sector savings became negative in 1977. Accordingly,
Guyana depended entirely on gross external inflows, domestic borrowing,
and money creation to finance investment in 1977. Nevertheless, although
gross external inflows declined, they were adequate to finance almost half of
the total investment program. The accumulation of balance of payments arrears
resulted temporarily in increased liquidity in the banking system, which the
public sector used to help finance its budgetary deficit. This, of course,
is not a sustainable method of financing public investment.
The Development Plan
11.       Guyana has recently drawn up its Third Development Plan for the
period 1978-81. It emphasizes export promotion and production increases, and
apparently constitutes the minimum investment necessary to maintain a momen-
tum of development in the economy. Total public sector investment in the



-4-
next three years (1978-80) is projected at about G$930 million and is ex-
pected to vary from 19% to 25% of GDP annually, about four-fifths of the level
attained in 1975. Approximately four-fifths of total investment is allocated
to the export-oriented productive sectors and related infrastructure. The
projects in the proposed investment program include only those which are
ongoing or for which external financing is likely to be secured. The proposed
Black Bush irrigation project, and the Upper Demerara forestry project which
has been appraised by the Bank, account for G$84 million of the G$460 million
total outlay for new projects.
12.       Agriculture, forestry and fishery are to receive about 36% of the
investment program. Projects in these sectors would begin to yield returns
and expand exports toward the end of the plan period. Projects in the manu-
facturing and mining sectors together claim about one-fourth of the plan
outlay and are also expected to contribute to higher export earnings by
1980-81. Infrastructure projects in transport, communications and power
which are considered essential to the development program have been allocated
about one-fifth of the total investment in the program.
13.       Among the projects included in the social sectors, education and
training account for the bulk of the investment. A substantial proportion of
the amount allocated to education would be utilized by the Bank/IDA-financed
second education project. The remainder of the projects included in the pro-
gram are of small magnitude. Since these projects are so numerous and widely
dispersed, they are not readily susceptible to external financing.
14.       Guyana's longer term prospects depend substantially upon the comple-
tion of export-oriented projects. The Government is particularly conscious
of the role of these projects as a means of achieving sustained improvement
in the country's economic position and is mobilizing resources, both internally
and externally, to meet the needs of these priority investments.
15.       In the years ahead Guyana will be faced with sharply increased
amortization payments on the external public debt. Gross external inflows would
have to average about US$100 million annually through 1980 if Guyana is to reple-
nish its foreign exchange reserves to a suitable level and avoid difficulties
in servicing its external debt. Mobilizing the required levels of public
sector capital inflows will depend upon an improved capacity to prepare and
execute projects and especially upon increasing the levels of public sector
savings.  In view of this situation, Guyana has entered into discussions with
the IMF regarding the measures that will lead to effective domestic and
external demand management.
16.       Following the adoption of a comprehensive set of policies to
restrain domestic demand and mobilize public sector resources, it should also
be possible to mobilize the external resources needed to cover the external
financing gap, eliminate the commercial arrears and begin the restoration of
the foreign exchange reserves. However, even with the measures likely to be
taken by the Government, including increasing revenues and reducing current
expenditure growth, there will still be a domestic financing gap for the
public sector investment program, unless external loans and credits cover a
large part of local costs. The ability of Guyana to carry out its investment
program without creating unacceptable pressures upon prices will require



government policies of substantial stringency, as well as the willingness of
the international community to give additional assistance to Guyana. Moreover,
the country's precarious external liquidity position in the immediate future
and the country's low income level suggest that a high proportion of such
external assistance should be offered on concessionary terms.
17.       Guyana's growth in real GDP over the next two to three years is ex-
pected to be low, primarily because of the continuing constraint on the capacity
to import. After 1980, it should be possible to maintain real growth rates of
4% to 5%, provided domestic policies are followed that encourage production and
savings in both the public and the private sectors.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN GUYANA
18.       The first Bank loan to the country was made in 1961 to the then
British Guiana for agricultural credit and that loan has been repaid in full.
Since independence in 1966, Guyana has received, net of cancellations, US$40.8
million in loans from the Bank and US$13.5 million in credits from IDA for
eight development projects. Reflecting the development needs of the economy,
past lending to Guyana has been for physical and social infrastructure. 39%
of Bank lending has been for sea defenses, highways and power. Two education
projects designed to improve secondary education and strengthen agricultural
and vocational skills account for 33% of Bank lending to the country while
assistance to agriculture and livestock development account for the remaining
28%. Annex II contains a summary of Bank loans and IDA credits as of March 31,
1978, with notes of the status of ongoing projects. There has been no IFC
operation in Guyana. Recently, a refrigeration project has been proposed for
IFC financing.
19.       In general, while the execution of Bank Group projects has been
satisfactory, the pace of project implementation has been slow. Shortage of
skilled technicians, institutional weaknesses, lack of a central office to
coordinate and monitor project implementation, and lack of enough resources
to meet local costs account for delays in project implementation. Since all
the ongoing projects (except for the Second Education project) were appraised
before the substantial rise in world inflation in 1973-74, these projects
have been faced with substantial cost overruns to be met by Guyana. The Bank
Group has been assisting the Government to obtain financing from external
sources to meet the financing needs of some of these projects. As a result
of these efforts, a financing package to meet the cost overruns of the Bank-
financed Tapakuma irrigation project is being worked out with the UK Overseas
Development Ministry (ODM) and the OPEC Special Fund.
20.       As indicated already, despite its resource potential, Guyana's
development has been impeded by inadequate infrastructure, shortage of skilled
manpower and institutional weaknesses, especially in coordinating and executing
development projects. Consequently, earlier Bank Group operations in Guyana
have been mostly aimed at strengthening both the physical and social infra-
structure and the institutional setup in the Government. The two Sea Defense
projects (Ln. 559 and Ln. 765) were designed to protect the coastal agricultural



lands and the country's administrative and population centers from tidal
inundation. The Highway project (Cr. 301), while supporting agricultural
operations, included technical assistance to the Ministry of Works in prepar-
ing a national transport development strategy. Acting as the executing agency
of the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), the Bank organized a
transport sector study and helped in setting up the Central Transport Planning
Unit. The Power project (Ln. 875), cofinanced by Canada and the UK, was de-
signed to increase modestly the thermal generation capacity and integrate
the national power system through frequency conversion and interconnection.
Also it contained provision for training and institutional improvement. As in
the case of the transport sector, the Bank, acting as the executing agency of
the UNDP, organized a survey of Guyana's hydropower potential.
21.       With a view to developing a relevant educational system and reducing
manpower constraint, the Bank Group has assisted Guyana with two education
projects (Cr. 139 and Ln. 583 for the First Education project and Cr. 544 and
Ln. 1106 for the Second Education project). These projects included multi-
lateral secondary schools, community high schools and teacher training
facilities, and emphasized agricultural education and rural training. The
second education project includes the development of curricula for technical
institutes, fellowships for technical teachers and a study to assess the
effectiveness of the vocational and technical education and training system in
meeting Guyana's needs. This study would help identify priorities for long-
term investment in education and training.
22.       The Bank Group has financed two directly productive projects, namely,
the Livestock project (Cr. 221) and the Tapakuma irrigation project (Ln. 1016).
Both these projects seek to utilize Guyana's land resources so that the country
can fulfill its role as the food supplier to the CARICOM while developing
efficient livestock and rice production systems. The Livestock project has
helped to reduce imports of meat and dairy products and is expected to lay the
basis for an export-oriented livestock industry. The investment already made
in the agricultural development program in the Tapakuma irrigation project has
enhanced yields in rice, thus contributing to increased export earnings. In
order to assess the potential in agriculture, a sector review was completed in
1977 under the Bank/FAO Cooperative Program.
23.       The Bank Group's lending strategy for the next two years is aimed
at projects which would increase production for export as rapidly as is
feasible. Within this overall strategy, emphasis has been placed on develop-
ment of agriculture and forestry. Together with the ongoing Tapakuma irriga-
tion project and the IDB-financed Mahaica-Mahaicony-Abary irrigation project,
the proposed Black Bush irrigation project would help utilize the country's
agricultural potential and increase both export earnings and rural household
incomes. Similarly, the recently appraised forestry project in central Guyana
would not only utilize the abundant forestry resources and open up the interior
of the country for settlement, but also contribute significantly to export
earnings. These programs to expand export-oriented production require comple-
mentary investments in training and institutional improvements. Assistance in
those areas is being arranged under programs financed by other bilateral and
multilateral agencies.



24.       The Bank Group has also sought to secure assistance for directly
productive projects from other external aid agencies. In the proposed Black
Bush irrigation project, as well as in the forthcoming forestry project, co-
financing from both bilateral and multilateral sources is being arranged,
so that the IFAD, USAID, IDB, and CIDA will join IDA in financing the proposed
project; it is also expected that the forestry project will bring together
financing from the European Development Fund and the European Investment Bank.
25.       Apart from these, a water supply and sewerage project for the
capital city has been proposed for Bank financing. A feasibility study for
this project financed by the USAID has been completed and the components for
external financing are under review in Guyana. As the ability of the economy
to execute development projects improves, it is expected that follow-up
projects in agriculture and forestry will be developed for Bank Group assist-
ance in later years.
26.       As noted above (para 7), Guyana is at present in the throes of
serious balance of payments difficulties. Until a package of measures to
increase domestic savings has been adopted, it is difficult to consider Guyana
creditworthy for appreciable amounts of lending on conventional terms. Even
after such measures have been adopted, however, a substantial amount of Guyana's
external capital requirements will have to be obtained on concessional terms,
given the modest balance of payments prospects and the low level of per capita
income. In view of this, Guyana is considered, for the time being, as having
quite limited creditworthiness, warranting a blend of Bank and IDA resources
from the Bank Group. On this basis and considering the high social priority
and export orientation of the Black Bush irrigation project, it is proposed
to make the Bank Group's contribution to this project on IDA's terms; for the
future it is expected that modest amounts of Bank loans will also be proposed,
always provided that the economic management of the country warrants it.
27.       Bank Group financing accounts for about 8% of Guyana's total ex-
ternal debt outstanding and disbursed and about 4% of debt service. It is
estimated that by 1980 the Bank Group's share of total external debt outstand-
ing and disbursed would increase to 11%, and of total debt service to 5%.
PART III - TIE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR AND RICE PRODUCTION IN GUYANA
28.       Guyana's agricultural sector contributes about 25% to 30% to the
GDP.  Its share in the country's exports has varied between 37% and 55%,
depending upon weather and international market prices. Output consists
mainly of rice and sugarcane, which occupy 85% of the total crop area and
employ about 70,000 or about one-third of the country's labor force. Develop-
ment of livestock and fisheries has been receiving increasing attention in
recent years.
29.       Out of the country's total area of 53 million acres, land in agri-
cultural use amounts to only about 3 million acres, while the rest is made up
of wild forest lands or savannahs. The principal agricultural zone is along



-8-
the coastal plains, which contain about 600,000 acres of arable land and
almost 90% of the country's population. Development of this area has entailed
extensive capital investment in sea defense, flood protection and drainage
works, which account for 30% to 40% of the annual capital outlay for agricul-
ture.
30.       While sugarcane cultivation is mainly done by state-owned estates,
rice production is dominated by small farmers. The distribution of holdings
by size indicates that over two-thirds of the farmers have less than 10-acre
holdings. Land tenure information is scarce. It is estimated that about
half of the cultivated lands are state-owned lands leased to farmers; the
remaining half are private freehold lands. While most of the farms are
operated by freeholders or leaseholders, there is a relatively small number
of landless agricultural workers.
31.       From the mid-1960s to the early 1970s, agricultural output barely
kept pace with population growth. The factors which accounted for this
stagnation are several: with the expansion of rice acreage which largely
accounted for the production increases, the supporting services needed to
achieve higher yields were not fully available. The pricing policy adopted
in the mid-1960s, which actually lowered farmgate paddy prices, had an adverse
effect on production and led to a shift from rice to other crops. The wide-
spread adoption of mechanization caused harvesting losses with traditional
varieties which were not suited to modernized farming and the shortage of
tractors and plows caused delays in land preparation and planting. Delays
in land preparation and harvesting caused by inadequate drainage and wet
lands have substantially contributed both to lower yields and poor quality
rice.
32.       In 1969 Government launched a rice modernization program.  This,
together with investments in irrigation and drainage development, intro-
duction of high-yielding rice varieties and major increases in paddy prices
paid to farmers since 1972, has reversed the trend and production of milled
rice has more than doubled between 1973 and 1977. Rice production, which
hit a 17-year low of 94,000 tons in 1972, increased significantly and
reached 160,000 tons in 1975. There was a sharp decline in output in 1976
because of exceptionally heavy rainfall, but 1977 has turned out to be a
banner year with an estimated output of 225,000 tons.
33.       The rice industry employs about 75% of the agricultural labor force.
Rice cultivation is mechanized even on small farms. Subsidized inputs, tech-
nical assistance and guaranteed prices provided by the Guyana Rice Board (GRB),
as well as improved water control facilities, have contributed to increased
rice output in recent years. Development of drainage and irrigation facil-
ities is a precondition for increasing double cropping and improving rice
yields. The expanding network of water control facilities has enabled double
cropping of rice on 110,000 acres of rice lands. The Second Five-Year Plan
(1972-76) and the forthcoming Third Development Plan (1978-81) have accorded
high priority to the development of agriculture. A comprehensive plan to
rehabilitate existing irrigation and drainage systems and construction of new



- 9 -
systems, including roads and on-farm development, and improvement of agricul-
tural supporting services for about 450,000 acres in the coastal area is being
undertaken by the Government. The Bank-financed Tapakuma irrigation project
(41,750 acres) in the northwest coastal region, the IDB-financed MMA irrigation
project (98,000 acres) in the central coastal region, and the proposed Black
Bush irrigation project (75,500 acres) in the southeastern coastal region form
part of the comprehensive plan of agricultural development for export-oriented
agriculture.
34.       The Rice Modernization Program, which was completed in 1975, was
assisted by the USAID. As part of the program, six large-scale drying and
storage facilities were constructed and funds were provided for rice milling
equipment. A new central rice research station was established and improved
varieties of rice seed were introduced in an effort to improve quality. A
follow-up project for further improving the rice industry has been proposed
to the USAID. The proposed Black Bush irrigation project would be the Bank
Group's second operation for improving field operations and land utilization
and enhancing the export potential of the rice industry.
35.       Inasmuch as it controls both the sugar and the rice industries, the
Government plays a critical role in the agricultural sector. The principal
agency charged with the responsibility for the rice industry and technical
services is the GRB, which is a statutory body under the Ministry of Agri-
culture (MAG). GRB's agricultural support services and subsidized inputs
are aimed primarily at increasing yields on small farms which constitute
the mainstay of Guyana's rice industry. Apart from providing production
credit to farmers, the GRB is the principal buyer, processor and marketing
agent for rice. Under the marketing arrangement with CARICOM, the GRB obtains
premium prices for its exports. Profits from export sales are used to provide
subsidized inputs to the rice industry and price support for locally consumed
rice. In addition to the GRB, the newly created Guyana Agricultural Coopera-
tive Development Bank (AGBANK) provides credits to farmers.  To deal with
commodities other than rice, the Government has established the Guyana Sugar
Company, the Guyana Marketing Corporation and the Guyana Agricultural Products
Corporation to look after the production, processing and marketing of farm
products. Through expanded facilities in the Guyana School of Agriculture
and establishment of six rural training centers and an in-service training and
communication center of the MAG as part of Bank/IDA-supported second education
project (Ln. 1106 and Cr. 544), the supply of agricultural technicians,
teachers and agricultural staff will be increased. While agricultural exten-
sion is the responsibility of the MAG for all crops other than rice, the
GRB is responsible for extension services in the rice industry. Given the
agricultural potential of the country and the emphasis placed on agricultural
development, available extension assistance is inadequate. It is estimated
that out of 33,000 farm families in Guyana, perhaps only 25% receive the
benefits of extension services and a national agricultural extension program
is being launched by the Government.
36.       Despite the predominance of small farms in rice production, Guyana's
rice industry is highly mechanized. There is currently an average of one



- 10 -
tractor for 75 acres in the coastal zone. Notwithstanding the relatively
large number of privately owned tractors and farm machinery, their utilization
is low, because of lack of repair and maintenance facilities and because of
the availability of GRB's machinery hire services at subsidized rates. This,
in turn, has made it difficult for the GRB to properly maintain its equipment
fleet and causes delays in harvesting and land preparation during periods of
heavy rainfall, thus affecting yields. Also, inadequate development of feeder
and farm-access roads causes delays in transporting paddy to the dryers and
mills which lead to spoilage and deterioration in rice quality. Feeder roads
and farm-access roads are currently being developed with assistance from the
USAID and the European Development Fund. Assistance to improve machinery
maintenance facilities is expected to be provided shortly by the UK ODM.
37.       Given the relatively low capital intensity of schemes to rehabilitate
and extend irrigation and drainage systems in areas already under cultivation,
Guyana has given high priority to such investments over schemes for opening
up new lands for settlement which would have a higher capital intensity and
longer gestation period. Furthermore, the application of an integrated agri-
cultural development approach to increase productivity of lands already cropped
would not only help Guyana achieve its production targets in a cost-effective
manner relatively quickly, but also bring improved delivery systems to Guyana's
small farmers. The ongoing Tapakuma irrigation scheme and the proposed Black
Bush irrigation project are based on this strategy. As in the case of the
Tapakuma irrigation project, the proposed project is aimed at improving the
incomes of small farmers whose present per capita income is less than US$75
per annum.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
38.       The feasibility study for the rehabilitation of the irrigation and
drainage system in the Black Bush Polder and adjacent lands (see map) was
financed by the USAID. A supplementary study to cover other lands abutting
the Polder was financed by the Bank under the project preparation facility
in 1976. The project was appraised in April 1977. A supplementary project
data sheet is contained in Annex 3. A report entitled "Staff Appraisal
Report, The Black Bush Irrigation Project: Guyana" (1714b-GUA) dated
May 19, 1978 is being circulated separately to the Executive Directors.
The credit was negotiated in Washington, DC from March 10 to 16, 1978
with a delegation led by Mr. Harold Wilkinson, Secretary to the Treasury.
Project Objectives
39.       The principal objective of the project is to build up Guyana's rice
export potential quickly by improving the productivity of its numerous small
farmers. The project would, over a six-year period, rehabilitate and extend
irrigation and drainage facilities and provide on-farm development and agri-
cultural supporting services in order to increase rice production over 75,500



- 11 -
acres in the Black Bush Frontlands (29,600 acres), Block III (19,400 acres)
and the Polder (26,500 acres). Besides strengthening Guyana's comparative
advantage as a major rice producer and exporter in the Caribbean, the project
would directly benefit about 6,000 farm families, 98% of whom are below the
relative poverty level annual income of US$180 per person. Lack of full water
supply and suitable irrigation and drainage facilities, as well as inadequate
agricultural extension services, have kept agricultural yields at a low level
in the project area. The strongest impact of the project would be felt in the
Frontlands where cropping intensity is the lowest in the entire project area
and where, as a result of increased water supply and improved irrigation and
drainage facilities, double cropping of rice would be achieved.
Project Description
40.       The proposed project is designed to rehabilitate and improve the
physical infrastructure and agricultural supporting services, principally for
small-scale farming of rice and food crops. The main components of the project
are:
(a) A new pumping plant (1000 cusec) on the Berbice River for
transfer of additional water through the existing Torani Canal
to the Canje River, rehabilitation of the Torani Canal, bank
improvements on the Canje River, and two new pumping plants on
the Canje River to serve Block III and the Frontlands;
(b) enlargement of the main canals and distributaries in the Polder
for conveyance of water to the Frontlands, rehabilitation and
improvements of irrigation and drainage systems and roads and
on-farm development in the Frontlands, rehabilitation of the
main supply canal, the Seaford distributary and the main
regulators into the watercourses in Block III, and improvement
of existing facilities in the Polder to correct localized
problems with irrigation and drainage on about 4,000 acres;
(c) construction of a new project headquarters, rehabilitation
and expansion of the two existing operation and maintenance
stations, and provision of additional maintenance equipment;
(d) construction of rice-drying and storage facilties, mainly in
the Frontlands area, and provision of additional farm machinery
and spare parts to meet the demands for land preparation and
harvesting with the higher intensity of land use;
(e) an agricultural development program including applied research
for variety trials and fertilizer response on different soil
types, production of improved seed and seed testing, and a train-
ing program for extension staff to develop an adequate extension
service in the project area and provide training to farmers; and
(f) consultant services to assist Government in implementation of
the project with surveys, investigations, final designs, tender



- 12 -
documents, contract administration and supervision of construction,
and to prepare a feasibility report for development of irrigation
of the livestock cooperative lands adjoining the project area.
The consultants would also assist with the agricultural develop-
ment program.
Project Implementation
41.       The construction phase of the project would be completed in 1983
and full development of agricultural production would be reached in 1985. As
in the case of the ongoing Tapakuma irrigation project, the MAG would be the
executing agency for this project also. MAG would carry out the project
through its various divisions responsible for irrigation, drainage and agri-
cultural development. The agricultural development program of the project,
including extension, applied research and seed production and equipment for
rice production and processing, would be launched in the early phase of the
project. GRB, which is already engaged in similar operations under the
Tapakuma project, would cooperate with the project consultants in implementing
the agricultural development program. It is expected that the early launching
of this program would result in improved yields valued at about US$0.5 million
in 1980 and about US$1 million by 1981 when civil works on major irrigation
and drainage system would commence. The value of the incremental output would
be US$4.5 million per annum when these works are completed in 1985.
42.       Within the MAG, the Hydraulics Division, under the policy direction
of the Drainage and Irrigation Board, would have responsibility for engineer-
ing planning, construction of project works, and operation and maintenance of
the completed project. The Extension Division would administer the extension
and training program, leading to establishment of an extension service
in the project area, and the applied research program for variety trials
and fertilizer response on different soil types. A Plan of Operations for
strengthening extension services in the project area and for implementing
programs for training extension workers and farmers, fertilizer and variety
trials, soil testing, and research on water management would be prepared
with the assistance of consultants and submitted to IDA no later than June 30,
1979. Minimum acceptable standards for control of the quality of rice seed
would be introduced for both private and public seed producers (Section 3.07
of Joint Project Agreement). GRB, which has the primary responsibility
to provide technical assistance to rice farmers and for rice research, would
participate in these programs with the MAG Extension Division. GRB would
have the main responsibility for agricultural credit and the supply of fer-
tilizers, chemicals and other inputs, machinery services for land preparation
and harvesting, technical assistance for pest and disease control and produc-
tion techniques, and the drying storage, milling and marketing of rice. The
Land Development Division would continue to be responsible for administration
of settlement schemes on land leased from Government, and the Lands Department
would administer the granting and registration of freehold lands, leasing of
government lands and collection of rent and land taxes.
43.       The AGBANK would  provide medium-term farm development loans, in-
cluding funds for purchase of farm machinery, to farmers in the project area.



- 13-
The Guyana Marketing Corporation would provide assistance in the distribution
and marketing of food crops, as part of its national responsibility to improve
the supply of food to local consumers.
44.       The construction of major project works would be by a contract
awarded through international competitive bidding. Small local firms would
be given subcontracts for specific work items and for construction of build-
ings. On-farm development would be executed by the Hydraulics Division as a
force account operation. GRB would supervise construction of the new drying
and storage facilities. Government would provide drainage pumps which are
already on hand. GRB would purchase tractors and mold board plows as a means
to improve land preparation and priority would be given to the Frontlands for
the use of farm machinery (Section 3.08 of Joint Project Agreement), since
the present availability of farm machinery in the Frontlands is relatively low
as compared to other project areas.
45.       A consortium of local and foreign consultant firms would assist the
Government in the implementation of the project and the agricultural develop-
ment program. Consultant services for a total of 560 man-months have been
provided for in the project and these services would be financed by the US
AID. A project manager and a project engineer, appointed by the MAG, would
supervise and manage field activities and operations, and coordinate the par-
ticipation of all departments, divisions and boards at the project level. The
appointment of the project manager and the project engineer and the employment
of a team of consultants acceptable to the Association and under terms and
conditions approved by the Association for implementation of the project works
and agricultural development program under the project would be a condition
of effectiveness (Sections 3.02 of Joint Project Agreement and 5.01 of Credit
Agreement).
46.       In order to ensure satisfactory accounting and audit of project
finances, MAG would maintain separate accounts for operations financed under
the project. HAG and its dependent departments, division and boards would
maintain separate accounts for the project and for each of the main components.
These project accounts would be audited annually by an independent auditor
satisfactory to the Association; and the audited accounts and the auditor's
report would be submitted to the Association within six months of the close
of each fiscal year (Section 4.02 of Credit Agreement). The Government
would arrange for the outstanding audit of GRB's accounts to be completed and
for a satisfactory plan prepared for improving GRB's accounting system and
financial management (Section 4.05 of Joint Project Agreement).
47.       Preparation of a project completion report would be the responsi-
bility of MAG. Monitoring of the project during execution would form an
integral part of the project. To set up a monitoring system for the project,
the Government of Guyana, after proper study, would submit a request to
IFAD for technical assistance. Assurances were obtained that the Government
would send IFAD and the Association proposals by not later than December 31,
1978, for establishing a satisfactory monitoring system for the project
(Section 3.09 of Joint Project Agreement).



- 14 -
Cost Estimates and Financing Plan
48.       The total project cost is estimated at US$42.8 million, net of
taxes, of which $27.0 million (or 63%) would be in foreign exchange. Phy-
sical contingencies are estimated at US$4.1 million and price contingencies
at US$11.2 million. The physical contingencies are estimated at 15% of the
base cost estimate, and price contingencies, which amount to 41% of the base
cost estimate, have been calculated on the basis of a rate of inflation of
9% for civil works and 7.5% for equipment until 1979, and 8% for civil works
and 7% for equipment thereafter. A rate of inflation of 10% per annum was
used in estimating the price contingencies for consultants and local staff
employed on the project.
49.       Apart from the proposed IDA credit of US$10.0 million, loans of
US$10.0 million from IFAD, US$7.5 million from USAID, and US$6.0 million
from IDB are expected to be approved shortly. In addition, it is expected
that CIDA will contribute US$2.5 million equivalent in local currency
generated from a commodity import credit now being negotiated. The terms
of financing of the IFAD loan are yet to be determined, but it is expected
that they would be concessional. The USAID's loan would be for 20 years,
with 10 years of grace, with interest at 2% for the first 10 years, and 3%
thereafter. The terms and conditions of the loan from IDB and the credit
from CIDA are yet to be determined, but it is expected that they would be
on concessional terms. The credit would become effective when the loan
agreements with IFAD, USAID and IDB have been executed (Section 5.01 of
Credit Agreement).
50.       The IFAD loan and IDA credit totalling US$20.0 million would be
used as a joint fund to finance civil works (US$10.32 million), equipment
(US$3.84 million), and Project Preparation Advance (US$0.28 million), while
the remaining amount of US$5.56 million would be unallocated. The loan
from the USAID would be used on a parallel financing basis to finance con-
struction of project headquarters, operation and maintenance stations,
laboratory and drying yards and paddy storage buildings (US$0.80 million),
equipment and spare parts for rice production and processing, on-farm
development, extension, research and seed production and administration,
engineering and supervision (US$2.16 million), and consultant services
for the project, including preparation of a feasibility study for develop-
ment of livestock cooperative lands (US$3.02 million); the remaining
amount of US$1.52 million would be unallocated. The components to be
financed out of the proposed IDB loan would be finalized at loan negotiations
between Guyana and IDB. In the light of this, it might be necessary to
revise the list of goods covered by the IFAD loan and IDA credit. External
loans and credits would provide US$9 million equivalent for local currency
expenditures. Of this, the IDA credit would provide US$1.5 million. The
Government's contribution would finance US$6.83 million of local costs to
cover the balance of estimated project costs. This contribution would finance
US$1.6 million of local costs for staff and services for engineering and
supervision; extension research, research and seed production, the feasibility
study for a Stage II project; and to support the consultants and internal
operational costs. An amount of US$5.3 million would be used to finance civil
works local cost. The Government would be the borrower and carry the foreign
exchange risk.



- 15 -
Summary of Costs and Financing Plan
(US$ million)
-------- Costs --------       ---------- Financing ---------
IDA/              Govt. & Other
Local   Foreign   Total       IFAD      USAID   Cofinancing
Civil Works               6.785      8.815   15.600   10.320                   5.280
Buildings                 0.559      0.241    0.800                0.800
Equipment, including
pumps                   0.361      6.000    6.361    3.840       2.160       0.361
Engineering and
supervision             0.667       -        0.667                           0.667
Consultant services       0.297      2.715    3.012                2.720       0.292
Extension, research
and seed production    0.382        -        0.382                           0.382
Project preparation
facility advance         -         0.280    0.280    0.280
Feasibility study for
cooperative lands       0.100      0.300    0.400                0.300       0.100
Subtotal                  9.151    18.351   27.502   14.440        5.980       7.082
Physical Contingencies   1.374       2.754    4.128    2.120        -          2.008
Price Contingencies       5.234      5.970   11.204    3.440       1.520       6.244
Total                     15.759    27.075   42.834   20.000       7.500      15.334
Percentage                  37        63        100         46         17         37
Cost Recovery
51.       The Drainage and Irrigation Ordinance of 1953 empowers the D & I
Board to collect actual operation and maintenance costs and recover the full
amount of capital investments from the beneficiaries. In practice, the
farmers are assessed only the operations and maintenance charges, and collec-
tion of these levies has averaged about 15% over the years. As a result,
Government has been subsidizing operation and maintenance costs for all
irrigation projects at an annual cost of about US$400,000.
52.       On lands farmed under government leases, which account for about
one-half of the project area, farmers object to repaying development costs
on lands which they do not own. Under the proposed project, the Government
would carry out a study, not later than six months before the estimated date
of completion of each drainage and irrigation system in the project, for
determining the extent to which the investment cost could be recovered over
a period of 40 years. Such study would take into account, inter alia, users'
ability to pay and the need to maintain economic incentives for them and the



- 16 -
appropriate interest rate to be used in the computation. The Government
would review with the Association and IFAD the conclusions and recommendations
of the study soon after this is completed. Assurances were also obtained that
the adequacy of the charges would be reviewed with the Association and IFAD,
at least once every two years (Section 4.06 of Joint Project Agreement).
Markets
53.       The project is estimated to increase annual production and exports
of milled rice by 21,000 tons by 1985, bringing total rice exports by Guyana
to about 200,000 tons.
54.       While CARICOM has provided a ready outlet hitherto, it is not ex-
pected that CARICOM will continue to absorb Guyana's rice exports at the
present level of premium prices. The annual rice import requirement of
CARICOM is currently 150,000 tons, and Canada, Cuba and the Central and South
American countries together import 250,000 tons. With the projected demand
increases, Guyana should be able to market the increased output, provided the
quality of Guyanese rice is further improved and an aggressive marketing
strategy is adopted.
55.       Both the GRB and the Government are aware of the need to improve the
quality of rice to expand exports. In order to ensure quality, additional
drying and storage facilities are being established under the project and the
USAID has under study a proposal to establish additional storage capacity.
Assurances have been obtained that the Government would assist in the improve-
ment and expansion of rice mills in the project area and would, for this pur-
pose, take measures adequate to enable the provision of credit on reasonable
terms to owners of these mills and take all action necessary to maintain rea-
sonable returns for rice millers that will permit improvement in the quantity
and quality of rice milled in the project area (Section 4.04 of Joint Project
Agreement). As the volume of rice for the export market expands, the GRB
would strengthen its marketing organization with suitable specialists.
A study financed by the USAID, which is now in progress, would analyze GRB's
marketing strategy and institutional capability and make recommendations
to improve the rice marketing system. Assistance for strengthening the
marketing services would be obtained as needed by the Borrower from external
technical assistance agencies.
56.       The additional output of 5,200 tons of food crops from the project
would be absorbed internally. The small incremental production of about 400
tons of sugar by the project would be absorbed by existing markets.
Procurement
57.       Contracts for the main project works (US$15.6 million) and imported
equipment (US$3.8 million) to be financed under joint financing arrangements
would be procured through international competitive bidding in accordance with
Bank Group guidelines. Local procurement of minor items of equipment and
supplies would be let on the basis of local procurement procedures acceptable
to the Association. Equipment to be imported with IDA/IFAD financing would



- 17 -
include irrigation pumps, and equipment, such as draglines, graders, and shop
and servicing equipment for operation and maintenance of project works.
Consultant services to be financed by the USAID would be under terms of
reference satisfactory to the Association. Domestic manufacturers in Guyana
would be accorded preferential treatment in bid evaluations, limited to 15% of
the c.i.f. price of imported goods or the actual tariff application, whichever
was lower, and regional preferences for other members of the Caribbean Common
Market (CARICOM) would be limited to 15% of the c.i.f. price of non-regional
goods or the difference in tariffs, whichever was lower.
Disbursement
58.       The IFAD loan and IDA credit would be disbursed against 66% of the
total expenditures for project works and 100% against the foreign cost (c.i.f.)
of directly imported equipment. For imported equipment purchased locally, the
disbursement would be at 85% of costs and for the ex-factory cost of equipment,
materials and supplies manufactured locally, the disbursement would be at 90%.
The credit would include the refinancing of the Project Preparation Facility
loan of US$280,000, made to Government in April 1976.
Benefits and Risks
59.       The project would directly benefit 6,000 farm families, of whom
83% operate farms of less than 10 acres. Family labor of these small farmers
would be utilized in food crop farming as well as in double cropping of rice.
Net incomes of small farmers with 3.5 acres (i.e. 58% of the farms in the
project area) would increase from the present level of US$40 per capita to
about US$70 per capita. The cropping intensity would rise from the current
level of 110.1 to 154.1 and 6,500 acres of unutilized land in the area would
be developed.
60.       The primary benefit of the project at full development would be an
incremental production of 21,000 tons of milled rice annually for the export
market. Export earnings resulting from this source are valued at US$8.2 million
annually. In addition, the project would produce 5,200 tons of food crops
destined for the domestic market. The value of these crops is estimated at
US$0.9 million annually.
61.       In addition to these benefits, the project would generate secondary,
unquantified benefits in terms of additional part-time and full-time employment
in commercial services related to processing and marketing of the increased
agricultural production in the area. Increased availability of food crops in
the domestic market would help the country improve nutritional levels and
achieve self-sufficiency in food.
62.       The project would help upgrade the production skills of farmers.
The creation of additional drying and storage facilities under the project
would not only help reduce crop losses, but also significantly improve the
quality of the milled rice for export. Improved facilities in the GRB's
maintenance station in the project area would help salvage a substantial
amount of GRB's equipment which is currently inoperable.



- 18 -
63.       The project is designed to rehabilitate existing irrigation and
drainage systems and no significant environmental impact is expected from
it. However, since occurrence of schistosomiasis is a risk associated with
such projects, the Government has taken note of the need to watch the situa-
tion in the project area in order to keep it free from occurrence of such
diseases.
64.       On the basis of the quantified benefits directly attributable to
the project and assuming an export price of rice at the world market level
and a shadow exchange rate of US$1=G$3, the project's economic rate of return
would be 13%; without shadow pricing foreign exchange, this rate of return
would be 12%. The rate of return, with shadow pricing, would still be 11% if
an increase of 10% in project costs and a reduction of 10% in project benefits
were assumed. To the extent that the CARICOM market can absorb until 1986 the
increased production from the project at the existing level of preferential
price for Guyana's rice, the rate of return would be 17%; without shadow
pricing of foreign exchange, this rate of return would be 15%.
65.       Project implementation would be exposed to three basic risks.
Firstly, the Government's ability to provide local currency financing on a
timely basis to meet the project's requirements is limited. The amount of ex-
ternal financing of the local currency costs of the project recommended here-
in should ensure availability of funds to meet local cost needs. The second
element of risk relates to the ability of the GRB to properly manage the rice
industry on the production and processing side as well as the marketing side.
External technical assistance to the GRB to strengthen its management and
marketing capabilities would be arranged by the Government to overcome this
risk. Assurances designed to strengthen the GRB have been obtained by the
Association (Section 4.05 of Joint Project Agreement). A third risk is
shortage of experienced professional and technical staff for implementation
and management of the project. This would be partly overcome by in-service
training which the project consultants would be required to provide.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
66.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between Guayana and the
Association and the Joint Project Agreement between Guyana, the Association
and the International Fund for Agricultural Development and the Report of the
Committee provided for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement
are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
67.       Special conditions of the credit are listed in Annex III.
Additional conditions of effectiveness are: (i) execution and delivery on
behalf of Guyana of the Joint Project Agreement and the agreements providing
for the loans IFAD, USAID and IDB; (ii) employment of project consultants;
and (iii) appointment of a project manager and a project engineer.



- 19 -
68.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
69.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
May 19, 1978



- 20 -
MANhX I
GUYANA              - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET                           Page 1
LAND AREA (THOU KM2)                    ----------- -
---------------                     GUYANA                              REFERENCE COUNTRIES (1970)
TOTAL      215.0                                      MOST RECENT                                   TRINIDAD
AGRIC.      32.3                       1960      1971   ESTIMATE           JAMAICA       BARBADOS  & TOBAGO
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                   230.Q**  360.0**  540.0**                670.0      960.0      1260.0
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION (MID-YR  MILLION)            0.6       0.7        0.9                1.9        0.2         1.0
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQUARE KM.                       3.0        3.0       4.0               170.0      464.0       200.0
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND       20.0       22.0      25.0               384.0      540.0       708.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (/THOU, AV)        43.3       39.1       32.4               38.5       26.9        32.5
CRUDE DEATH RATE (/THOU,AV)          12.2       8.3        5.9                8.6        9.4         7.1
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (/THOU)       48.9       38.5/a    38.0                32.2       46.3       .34.4
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YRS)      59.3       65.2      67.9                67.8       67.6        66.1
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               ..        2.8       2.7                 2.7        1.4         2.0
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (%)
TOTAL                                3.0        2.3***   1.9***               1.4***     0.2**       2.1
URBAN                                 ..        9.8       11.1                6.2          ..        3.1
URBAN POPULATION t% OF TOTAL)          15.5      31.6       40.0               37.1         3.7       24.1
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                      48.3       44.2      43.7                45.9       37.0        41.2
15 TO 64 YEARS                      50.4       52.6      52.7               50.4        54.7        55..
65 YEARS AND OVER                    3.3        3.2        3.6                3.7        6.3         3.7
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                    1.0       0.9        0.9                1.0         0.8        0.8
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.6/a     1.sj       1.7                1.7         1.6/a      1.3
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE, THOU)           ..        ..         ..               49.8          .        25.4
USERS (% OF MARRIED WOMEN)             .         ..         ..                 ..          .           .
EMPLOYMENT
_ -----_-_ _
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSAND)         175.0      210.0     220_0               600.0/a     90.0       35o.0/a
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE (%)        34.0       32.0Lg   30:9                 33.Or--    16.0        22.0
UNEMPLOYED (% OF LABOR FORCE)           8.oLb    15.0        5.3 /a            17.9/&      9.0        12.5
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
% OF PRIVATE INCOME RECOD BY-
HIGHEST  5% OF HOUSEHOLDS            18.a/C      ..         ..                 ..       19.s/b
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS           468s5C                  ..                 ..       44.07*
LOWEST  20% OF HOUSEHOLDS            4                                         ..        a.
LOWEST  40% OF HOUSEHOLDS           14...L.
DISTRISUTION OF LAND OWNERSHIP
=    _  _  _  _  _  _ ------ --- -__                 -_   _-_-
X OWNED BY TOP 10% OF OWNERS             ..        ..         ..                 ..       95.0
X OWNED BY SMALLEST 10% OWNERS           ..         ..        ..                 ..         0.5
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN            8100.0    4310.0    3270.0               2630.0      1890.0/c   2330.0
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON            ..         ..    1030:O.0           1710.0      420.07w   400.0/b
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED          440.0/d   210.0       190.0              240.0       100.0-    230.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES (% OF REQUIREMENTS)        101.0    104.0       104 0              103.0       94.0        97.0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)             35.0       47.0       580                26.0/      4 73.0      3 B4. 0
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE           ..       22.0                         5           7.0e       64.0
DEATH RATE (/THOU) AGES 1-4            5.6         ..         ..                4.2         2.2         1.8
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                      107.0      9B.0      114.0              106.0      105.0       iio.o/d
SECONDARY SCHOOL                     43.0      49.0       55.0               30.0       49.0        40.07o
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)              ..       13.0       13.0               12.0       13.0        15.0
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT
(X OF SECONDARY)                    14.0        5.1       5.2                 5.0        7.0         8.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE (S)                  ..      85.0         ..               82.0        97.0       88.0
HOUSING
PERSONS PER ROOM (URBAN)                1.7       2.1  .      ..                 .,         i.o/L       I.L
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER (%)                                63.9                          78.0 /     80.0 .      84.0 f
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY                            6
(% OF ALL DWELLINGS)                  ..         ..         .                27.0       59.0        68.0L
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY (%)                     ..        ..         ..                 ..
CONSUMPTION
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)         85.0     tos.o     346.0               376.0       347.0      276.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)          19.0      25.0       33.0               39.0        82.0        73.0
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAP)          163.0     482.0      464.0              625.0       626.0      1172.0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)                ..       1.7        1.9                4.6         3.8         5.9
----- - ---- - -A -------T- -  ------
SEtt NOTES AND DEFINITIONs ON REvERSE



- 21 -
ANNEX I
Onloas otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961, for 1970 between 1969 and 1971, and for Moat Recent Estimate between
197 3 and 1976.
0 1976 bese perid
ndDI.e to emigration population growth rate L. lower than tha rate of natural incrnase.
000Trinidad and Tobago h.s bean aelectad as an objective country since it is one of the daveloped coan trina of the carlbb.a. Cnac Market, and it
shares siilar probiama and da-elorenst objectives with Gu~yana.
GUYANA                 1960    /a  Ratic of population under 15 and 65 and over to total labor force;    /b  Inlucidas pareon  aesking work for the firet
time;    /c  1955-56,  -uloding aalf-enplyed poraon  in the high intone bracket;    /d  1963.
1970    IA  includes Aaeredia- poPulation;    Lb  Ratio of population under 11 end 61 and over to total labor force;    /0  Aa
percentage of empioyment;       /d  1967;    /n  Total, urban and rural.
MOST RECENT ESTIIATf,    /-  Mainly Persn ...   a.king Job for tha float timer;    /b  1972;    Ic  1969-71 avnga.
JAMAICA                1970    /a  Data based on official definition. which incldes thoaa willing to work, but nut ectively e..ekiag eaployment;
lb  1964-66;      L In.maids only.
RARBADGOS1970    Ra atio of population under 15 and 60 end one. to labor force 15-59  eoa-;    /b  Incam recipienta;                                     .  Regiatered.
not oil pr-ctiting in the country:         Id  Covermeent peraonnel, including nidwives;    Ia  1966;    /f  Total, urban
and rural;    jj  Inside only.
TRINIDAD & T~OBAGO    1970    Y.  13-64 years;    /b  Iau1oding nidwlv-e;    /c  1964-66;    /d  Co,eranent naintained and aided echcoole only;
- n    otal, urban an;d rurol;    /f  Inaide only;    /L  1966.
RB, May 11, 1978
BEPCNITION1 OP BOCIAL DIDIOCATORS
land Area (than bin2)                                               ~~~~~~~~Porloiun ear noseecrson - PupuIetbon divided by nsb-r of pract icino
Total - Total outface area  -oprleins land area and inland waters.                            el   n   female grduate  oaa  "traind" or 'certified' nuss   nd
ueric .J-os-  recen.t earner  of arclvrlarea eand tenporarily or pasma-                       atailiary persnnl with trainina or superienco.
unetly for crpe, Pastu-e, earket & kitchen gardens or to lie fallow.                      Posuatiom ear b-arital bed - PapuIetion dicidad by v-b-r of hospital beds
avala.ble in public and private general and apetiliaed hospita1 and
pgtP oar calta (1L01 - GNP.per capita astisatee at current market prices,                     rababilitation centers; ea1ldes nuralg homes and establialneents  for
cacltd by eanc       -reo  memthod as World Bank Atlas (1974-76 baais3;                 coatdia1 and prevetiva c.ar.
lOA0; 1970 sad 1976 data.                                                                  Me c..nita auei  f   are     oftt requirements) - Coeprtd from enegy
eqialn   cint food soppliea availabl e. In  outry per capita per day;
i'eiaiop    n vcl ccicc,aalable  upplisa unaprisa dommtin prduction, iporta lesa ep-rts, ard
Iouafo   ad-ermllion;   uA of July first:  if not  -nilable, overag                        changas Lt atck; eat supplies seclude animal foed, eands, qoanitiesuaad
oftw  cud-y-s  erltte  1)60, 1970 end 1976 data,                                           in food procseing and loasea In distrhutlom; raquir-ta wer  estimated
by PAD based on physiolgleal needa for uno-I activity And bealth cesaid-
Popula  tio    arr.   -   _pr ...ar lot - Mtid-yaar population per squar  bilomtar           srag envirooasatal temperaturs, body weights, age and sax disttrbutIons of
(10hctrs   f total area.                                                            population, and elloWig lit mot waste at ha-aae-bhld level.
Ponltio damaiv  - pe nu kr eof ci  irO. land - Computed as abov, fur                      Pat revile sung1, nO ertt (graMsBnan  - Proei  r "tt of Pencpt
agrliou~lturl lea,d onlly."                                                                  net spl  offade  day,;met su!pply ovf.fod Ia deftedt as above; ~raqufe-
atsfor eli nacetnies eatabliebad by USDA Eronasi  ~aeRcb Bevic
vital t-taispoide for s minima ellamnce of hi grasa af total prccaiu pen day, sad
Crude birth rare Pear thousand, avrage - Annoal lion birtbs par thoneend of                    00 graa of a-nmal and Pu1sa protein, of chick 10 gre    should he animal
oid-y_r pupulecion; te-yeuo,orickheavic sna-gsa andicins  19 160 -an  1970,                  protein; theas  -A-sded  are lonr then tAn-  o  75 gr-  tof tota  p-ttei
atd fiv-yea  overge -edgin 1975 for net recent -atleato.                                     and 23 gram  of animal protein asamavrge for tha world, poopoed by FAD
Crude ~death rate ra  to-sad. averae  - Annul deatha per thousad of aid-year                   In the Third Wdorld Pond BSrry.
population; te-pas- sitim,stic averagesenading in. 1960 and 1970 eod fire-                Pe  ant   rosaContfrmaimlad.22lan - Protein supply of fond
year aaregs  nding  n 1975For netrcn  etmt.drived fra  anisl  and puse  i g.                                                 m   per day.
Infant =ertaitr rts9 ic/r.ho9) - A-u-I deatha of intents coder one Peer of age             Bethrae/tou  a               1-4. -Annul doaths per thoueand in age g-op 1-4
pe  touad lion birth.                                                                   years, ta childe  Ithia age group; suggested as an indicator of
Lifancactaatr a  both fore) - Aver..ga atnbar of years of life rminin  atmlntio.
birth; usully five-year average  ending in 1960, 1970 and 1973 fox develop-
tag ouwtrise.                                                                             Edonetion
Gro- renrodotion rat   - Average canke  of Live daghters a woman will bean                   Adluatedarlmn  ea-ermr  col-Rrlsa   fala                                 spr
in , h rmnnal reroduction period if she  nexrge_re  prasent ag-pcotantgs. of primr  aoolaepuuain  includes childrn aged 6-11 year
fertility  rtete;pually five-year  vrage  ending io 1960, 1970 and 1971                     but adjuatad for different lengtha of primary Macsties; for cntries with
for deeopn  c-wrrine.                                                                       oni-eral educa tion, naro11mat may .exed 10%X ane  smem  pupils are below
Popolatbom gowin rate It  - tota  - Compoond ennul growth rates of ea-year               or abwe the  ftfinia1 school age.
poPu1-lato  for 1950-60, 1960-70 andII 190-75.                                            Adbtd  Iaalen ratio - secondry enh..  - Compotad as above; secondary
Ponoacio nooch rte Ct -uba  - Computed Ilke grath rate of total                          educationreeie  atia    ecyaso pprovd primary imatroctine;
population; diff-cent definition  of urban area  map affect comParability of                 provides genanal, vocaional or teacher training inatrrutiona far pupils
data among r-eri-ra                                                                          of 12 to 17 yaa-ra of age; o.errep-ada  cura.. aon g-11rall  amoodd.
Urbanoplto  ftf !tota) - Ratio of orbsa to total population; diff.arnt                       Years of ahoieewddfirtndscdlvl)-TtAlpaso
dafiiio          ofurba  area  may affeot coeparsbillty of data asmn   -antrias.            schooling; at aemaylvl l          aatias istuto   ma  hepartially er
completely seclue.
hen at 'coe    eret) - Childr-  (I-14 peara), *working-age (15-bkyas64vctoa stro_ ixa                               M 1of  -erada ) - V-raronl One rAr-ions inclde
an  rtired (61 years and nea) as percetagee cf mi-erppulatbon.                               tcebinal, iodnatri1 on other progra  which operat  ludpapndently or a
hAademd-c _ratio  - Ratio of population under 15 and 61 and ovr to those                       doparosnts of aetondary instirtutins
of agra 15  bhroogh 6-4.                                                                   Adult literac  race  MT   - Lit-tat adults (able to read and -ite) as pe-
trononc denedeocy atio  -Ratio of popolatioo under I  sod 65 and over to               cenage of total adult population aged 15 years andoer
rho lab-or-Oro in age group of 15-hA years.
feailo nlannina-acreocare founularive. thou) - Cumulative ounhen ci acceptors  Ocualaofg... pt..  H~~!
of hirt-noccre  devics undmoauspice  of na Ioa  fanly P1aoic    -gu-a          Proaeroom (ucheal - Averge nbke  of Pers ons per r-u  in occupied
since ince ption.                                                                           coustfaaa  d-eifag  to urban areas; dmnilinfe e-iude non-permanect
'oIVly innr -arc fTu  mria   esn   Percantagas of marriod woman of                           aruursed onoo-piad parra.
cbil-borir  ag  (1-44yeas)  ho  ne  irth-rootrol devices to all married         0ccnpnd dw     nawthou erd w            r MC  -Occupied co-cntionel dwelling
wmerc 0,~ aae  ago group.                                                                    in orban and ruraaras  ithot innide on outside piped water ferilitina
epercentage ofalocpisd dweligs
Epunloyment                                                                                  Oceatoeetrct HT ci al                lIIca) - Conven1tiona  dwellings with
Total Ishoc torce (th-noano   - Econunically atti- parsons, inotndi.g aned                     ciecticity it Giving quarters as percot of total dwrlinga io urbac aod
fo--e and unemployed but eaclding hoc..eni-ne, studeta, etc.; deOinjiri-                     rurl areas.
is variue coutries era not cooparabla.                                                      fRal1dwwelln  once   oelcoct-l   loxp-td as abov  for rura
lborxoc   nagiutr  (TI  - Agrioultural labor force. (in farming, foreetry,                    deellings  ny
hning. end ofilahior as prcetg rttllbrCr
Inmlpdf   flbrfre%) -  oM-plopd are usually defined a. persons wh.                      Consotia
are able end milling to tehe a Jab, out of a Job on e given day, remained ont              Radio receivers fear thou noeS  - All types of receivers for rado br-edrst
of.ajor, aed see king work foo a specified minimom Period not exce eding one                 to general public per thousand of PpoplatIon; s-oldes onliceased receivers
webk; maY not be cemparable between countrisa dna to different definitgona                   incoare  and in  area  when registration, of radio sets was Is effect;
of uneployed ead4sorc  of data, e.g., employment office etattlatg, espla                     date for racat years may oat b, caprs.able aine most cowtrie. abolished
serape, cmpuleor  coeplaymeni i..naurea.                                                     licens.ing.
pasege crsferthoucw        asegrcr  cpmrie moto.r cr  seating
lore datrihuion  -Percentage of private ioncoe (both in cask and kind)                   lestenight Persona; secludes   hulam1 ea  hearse  and militar
txcxlv4 by rithast II, richest 10, punrent 20%, ad P-not 40% nO han-                          vkcls
hol1ds.                                                                                     Electricity fkwh/reercr     l- Annul  oasateption of fadn-tria1, tmmercia.)
Di."Ib.q2-a of I  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~pblc ndpIvn  dlc atty toi kilewat hour Per ..Pit.,g'sal
Diarribrion ofland owsrshloParc...tageo  of land owned by w-althIest 10%              base.d on praducio  daa   ithout allowanc  for leases in grids hut allo--
and poorest 10%. of lead anners.                                                             log fo anIports sad a.Porta of elactririty.
He. I th end                                                          H-mp,itt~~~~~~~~~~Nesela ike/yr ear eas) - Par capita s-41e  cnaptnibon in hOlogram
_ad,an  uorition                                                                          sstimated From dossestin predatico  plus car imparts of nasmapint.
xuulti   P,e hsinian - Population divided by cute.r of practicing
physOisi..  qualified fro  a madi-I s.obun  at university lanaI.



- 22 -                                         ANNEX I
Page 3 of 4 pages
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1977                                          ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (%, 1970 prices)
US$ Mln.        %                                                 1975      1976      1977
GNP at Market Prices            417.3        100.0               Agriculture, fishing
Gross Domestic Investment       117.6         28.1                 and forestry                  -4.9       2.1      -5.1
Gross National Saving            20.2          4.8               Mining and quarrying             -       -11.8      -1.3
Current Account Balance         -97.4         23.3               Manufacturing and
Exports of goods, NFS           271.5         65.1                 processing                    12.8      13.6      -7.0
Imports of Goods, NFS           344.1         82.5               Construction                    30.8       1.9    -18.5
Services                        17.5       7.6      -5.3
GDP at factor cost              10.8       4.5      -6.2
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1975
Value Added                     Total Employed                   V. A. Per Worker
US$ Mln.         %                   ('000)      %                  US$               %
Agriculture                     146.6         24.3                 66.5       34.0                2204.5          92.9
Mining & Quarrying               48.7         15.3                 28.6       14.6                1702.8          71.8
Manufacturing                    62.5         11.2                 56.8       29.0                1100.4          46.4
Other                           206.4         49.2                 43.8       22.4               4712.3          198.7
Total/Average            464.2        100.0               195.7      100.0                2372.0         100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE (Central Government)
(G$ Million)
Est.
1974      1975        1976        1977
Current Receipts                305.2      495.1       399.8       351.8
Current Expenditures            232.6      291.7       412.2       402.4
Budgetary Savings                72.6      203.4       -12.4       -50.6
Capital Revenue                   1.3        3.3         2.7         2.7
Capital Expenditure             103.9      280.6       378.9       275.1
Overall Deficit                  30.0       73.9      -388.6      -323.0
MONEY, CREDIT and PRICES                    1972       1973       1974       1975      1976        1977
(Million G$ Outstanding Period)
Money and Quasi Money                      227.5      258.1      299.8      384.7      417.3      538.0
Bank Credit to Public Sector (net)          96.5      175.2      139.3      155.5      412.7      632.9
Bank Credit to Private Sector               85.0      101.8      105.9      117.4      120.0      113.0
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as Z of GDP           43.3       40.0       31.4       32.4       37.4       48.3
General Price Index (1970 = 100) a/        106.7      117.2      140.3      148.7      161.7      179.1
Annual percentage changes in:
General Price Index                          4.9        9.8       19.7        6.0        8.7       10.8
Bank Credit to Public Sector (net)          30.2       81.5      -21.6       11.6      165.4       53.4
Bank Credit to Private Sector                0.6       19.7        4.0       10.9        2.2       -5.8
NOTE:  All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period
covered.
a/ Annual Average.
not available
not applicable
- Zero



-23-                                         ANNEX I
Page 4 of 4 pages
TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                   MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1975-77)
Est.
1972     1976      1977                                           US $ Mln.     4
(Millions US$)
Exports of Goods, NFS            164.5    294.3    271.5            Sugar                             111.9      39.3
Imports of Goods, NFS            168.2    403.1    344.1            Bauxite and alumina               115.9      40.6
Resource Gap (deficit = -)        -3.7   -108.8    -72.6            Rice                               29.5      10.3
All other commodities              27.9       9.8
Interest Payments (net)           -5.1    -16.9    -17.3                 Total                        285.2    100.0
Workers' Remittances               -        -         -
Other Factor Payments (net)       -6.4     -5.4      -3.6
Net Transfers                     -0.1     -6.1      -3.9
Balance on Current Account       -15.3   -137.2    -97.4
Direct Foreign Investment         -0.2    -35.9      -6.5           EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31, 1976
Net MLT Borrowing
Disbursements                  13.4    107.5      58.5                                                    US $ Mln.
Amortization                  -2.5    -18.8    -23.9
Subtotal                      10.9      88.7      34.6              Public Debt, incl. guaranteed          380.5
Capital Grants                     -        -         -                Non-Guaranteed Private Debt               -
Other Capital (net)                -        -         -                Total outstanding & Disbursed           380.5
Other items n.i.e.                10.4     -7.3       2.3
Increase in Reserves (-           -5.8     91.7      67.0
increase)                                       DEBT SERVICE RATIO for 1977a/
Gross Reserves (end year)         36.8     27.2      22.0
Net Reserves   (end year)         -2.3    -11.9    -78.9                                                        '4
Fuel and Related Materials                                             Public Debt, incl. guaranteed            14.2
Imports                       13.4      53.9      68.6              Non-Guaranteed Private Debt               -
of which:  Petroleum        ..       ..        ..                Total outstanding & Disbursed           14.2
Exports
of which:  Petroleum        -         -         -
IBRD/IDA LENDING, Dec. 1977 (Million US $):
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                                                                       IBRD       IDA
Since October 1975                                          Outstanding & Disbursed                 20.1       6.7
US$1.00 = G$2.55                                            Undisbursed                             18.8       7.0
1.00 = US$ 0.392                                         Outstanding incl. Undisbursed           38.9     13.7
a/ Ratio of Debt Service to Exports of Goods and Non-Factor Services.
not available
not applicable
- zero



- 24 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 4 pages
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN GUYANA
A.   Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits
(As of March 31, 1978)
Loan or
Credit                                                  Amount (or Less Cancellation)
No.     Year      Borrower       Purpose              Bank       IDA      Undisbursed
Five loans and one credit fully disbursed
(Loans 285, 559, 583, 765 and 875 and Credit 139)    19.9          2.9
221         1970    Guyana         Livestock                       2.2            1.1
301         1972    Guyana         Highway                         4.4            1.5
1016        1974    Guyana         Irrigation            12.9                    8.6
1106/
544         1975    Guyana         Education II           8.0      4.0           11.6
Total (net of cancellations)         40.8    13.5           22.8
of which has been repaid              2.0       -
Total now outstanding                38.8    13.5
Amount sold                    0.8
of which has been repaid       0.8
Total now held by Bank and IDA I/ 38.8    13.5
Total undisbursed                    16.6      6.2          22.8
1/   Prior to exchange rate adjustments
B.   Statement of IFC Investments
(As of March 31, 1978)
There have been no IFC investments in Guyana.



- 25 -                   ANNEX II
Page 2 of 4 pages
C.   Projects in Execution 1/
Cr. No. 221   Livestock Project; US$2.2 Million Credit of November 27, 1970
Effective Date: April 15, 1971
Closing Date: December 31, 1978
Progress in executing the project has been slow due to the absence
of appropriate institutions to promote livestock development among farmers who
are unaccustomed to utilizing debt financing for on-farm investment. Wide-
spread cattle rustling and farmers'/ranchers' uncertainty about the financial
attractiveness of the investment package offered have also affected project
performance significantly and only about 50% of the IDA credit funds have
been disbursed so far. Arrangements have been worked out between the Associa-
tion and Guyana to accelerate the granting of long-term leases and to include
lending for dairy farming under the project and the Closing Date of the
project has been extended to December 1978. Since prospects for disbursing
credit to the private sector are dim, IDA has approved financing of additional
Government ranches and a large Government dairy farm, as well as a dairy
settlement scheme, comprising about 27 dairy settlers.
Cr. No. 301   Highway Project:  US$4.4 Million Credit of April 26, 1972
Effective Date: November 15, 1972
Closing Date: June 30, 1978
Start of construction was delayed until July 1973. In view of the
contractor's unsatisfactory performance, the Government, with the Association's
approval, has been executing the works on "force account." However, progress
has been slow and only about 65% of the work has been completed to date. Lack
of cement and construction materials in recent months as well as mechancial
problems afflicting the truck fleet have caused delays in project implementa-
tion in recent months. The Ministry of Works is in the process of remedying
this situation. The project is likely to be completed by December 1978 and
the Closing Date may have to be extended by nine months, i.e., to March 31,
1979.
Ln. No. 875   Power Project:  US$6.0 Million Loan of January 12, 1973
Effective Date: May 8, 1973
Closing Date: December 31, 1978
This project for which cofinancing has been provided by UK-ODM, CIDA
and the Bank has encountered delays in implementation and cost overrun of about
36%. Difficult relations between project consultants and the Borrower resulted
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 4 pages
in delays in project engineering and implementation and the engineering cost
of the project increased by 98%. The Bank reallocated its loan to meet the
increased engineering costs and the ODM and CIDA contributed a larger share
of the equipment and construction costs. Completion of the project is now
expected in June 1979. Because of inadequate tariff levels, GEC made no
contribution to its 1976 construction program and its rate of return was
negative; however, new tariff structure and levels granted by the Government
effective January 1977 has resulted in about 46% overall increase in the
company's revenues in 1977, allowing GEC to earn a 10% rate of return.
Attrition of qualified personnel of GEC and inadequate availability of local
funds continue to affect project implementation.
Ln. No. 1016 Tapakuma Irrigation Project; US$12.9 Million Loan of June 25, 1974
Effective Date: May 27, 1975
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The project continues to be about 18 months behind schedule due to a
delay in contracting consultant services for final design and supervision of
construction and agricultural development. Surveys, planning and design have
continued to progress. A civil works contract for the Tapakuma and Somerset-Berks
irrigation and drainage works and roads has been signed and construction started
in January 1978. Preparation of final designs are underway for the Johanna
Cecilia and Supenaam extension areas. Cost of civil works for the project has
increased about 130% over the appraisal estimate. In view of the financial
circumstances of Guyana, efforts are underway to secure additional external
assistance to meet the cost overrun. The agricultural development phase of
the project is progressing and applied research and seed production programs
are proceeding well. The applied research and extension services provided by
the project contributed to yields which were the highest in the country in the
spring and autumn crops of 1977. A program for extension training is helping
to resolve the scarcity of local agricultural staff, as well as serve as a
model for extension activities throughout the country. Availability of scarce
technical staff in the agronomic and civil engineering fields, however, will
constitute a growing constraint as project implementation proceeds.
Ln. No. 1106_ Second Education Prolect; US$8.0 Million Loan and US$4.0 Million
Cr. No. 544   Credit of May 9, 1975;
Effective Date: July 8, 1975
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The project encountered major delays in appointing consulting archi-
tects, engineers and quantity surveyors. Construction has started on the
Caribbean Animal Technician Training Center, and the institution is expected to
be ready for occupancy in September 1978. Construction contracts for all other
project institutions are expected to be signed during 1978, and it is now esti-
mated that the project should be completed about two years later than originally
scheduled. The major problem causing delays in design and construction of
project institutions is the ineffective administration of the civil works compon-
ent by the Project Unit. Preparation of master furniture and equipment lists is
proceeding satisfactorily. Curricula and syllabi for the community schools have



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 4 pages
been completed and those of the new secondary Teachers' Training College are
nearing completion. Specialists' services have been secured in the areas of
Rural Training, Agricultural In-service Training and Communication and Social
Studies. There is a delay in the implementation of the fellowship program
and only five fellowships have been granted up to now.



- 28 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2 pages
GUYANA
BLACK BUSH IRRIGATION PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  The project was prepared in two stages in about 5-1/2 years.
(July 1971-February 1976).
(b)  A firm of consultant (Harza Engineering Company-Aubrey Barker
Associates) prepared the project.
(c)  The project was proposed to the Bank in April 1975.
(d)  A preappraisal-cum-appraisal mission departed in March 1977.
(e)  The negotiations were completed on March 16, 1978.
(f)  The planned date of effectiveness is November 30, 1978.
Section II: Special IDA Implementation Action
None
Section III: Special Conditions
(a)  Conditions of effectiveness would be (i) execution of the
agreements providing for the IFAD, USAID and IDB loans for
the project (para 49); and (ii) employment of project
manager and project engineer and consultants to provide
professional and technical services for design engineering,
supervision of construction, extension training, applied
research, etc. (para. 45).
(b) Other assurances are that:
(i) adequate level of credits would be given to farmers and
privately owned mills and profit margins for milling would
be maintained, and priority would be given to Frontlands
for use of farm machinery (paras. 43, 44 and 55);
(ii) a plan of operations would be prepared by June 30, 1979 for
strengthening extension services and applied research, and
standards for control of quality of rice seed would be
introduced and applied specifically to the State Seed
Farm in the Polder (para. 42);



- 29 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2 pages
(iii) MAG, its dependent departments, divisions and boards
would maintain separate accounts for project expenditures,
which would be audited annually, and reports of audited
accounts would be submitted to the Association promptly
(para. 46);
(iv) GRB would review and improve its accounting system and
financial and marketing management capabilities
(paras. 46 and 65);
*                          (v)  a progressive system of project charges would be levied
on project beneficiaries and the system of charges
would be reviewed with the Association every two years
(para. 52); and
(vi) Guyana would submit proposals to IDA and IFAD not later
than December 31, 1978 to set up a monitoring system for
the project (para. 47).






lEPD-12979
-           - ,. R' 'T L~ eD _          ''  E'  iRD-1   
<~~~~~~                                    ~ ~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ,                                        ATE/EN EEC r 
* WEAN
A TL A N TIC    O C EA NTETO
-I-                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~I- X
.;-~  ~~~ -='                               I>0            ;r 0                                                           X     -     :i
SUGAR~~~ ~ ~            E RESTwt TE'
OWA .  P  I  I  M  P N C P l  NT -01 *AN                                                                  ,4R   -
SOGAR FPLACK LJiH F U        , -                   ;                                                       j
gAY                      -.EA                                     G7ERTRSAA                                                           & U Y A  N AA
<'i             B~~~~~LAND.,          IRGTINPOJC 
'MSTRDAM  PORT RMPARTDIAM R                                                                                      I A
.,.6  8     A,<                   Fh3JFK AREA *C  EUMPINGSTATE ONS
r          T -- DRATA  C        -          ERTON  BN E
DIT B        GUYCNA
AMRDANIGLSE~T ON7
(V1C .-'.N SAIN
1'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1- OD                                               SAEEUDR1
\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RIAECN \NENTONLBJDRE
A~~~~~~IT  UAYCNL
VA1  /        >1<~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LJ1T17



