Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2539-BD
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
FOR A
VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
May 10, 1979
This document has a restricted distibution and my be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
The Bangladesh Taka is pegged to the Pound Sterling
and the rate has been refixed on occasion, most recently
at 32.00 on April 16, 1979. Since, in addition the
Pound is floating relative to the US Dollar, the Taka/US
Dollar rate is subject to change. The rate below has been
used throughout this report except where otherwise stated.
US$1          =   Tk 15.1215
Tk 1          =   US$0.0661
Tk 1,000,000  =   US$66,131
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 through June 30
ABBREVIATIONS
MOM   -    Ministry of Manpower Development and Social Welfare
MOE   -    Ministry of Education
MOI   -    Ministry of Industries
BMET  -    Bureau of Manpower Employment and Training
TTC   -    Technical Training Center
VTI   -    Vocational Training Institute
NCSDT -    National Council for Skill Development and Training
ILO   -    International Labor Organization



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BANGLADESH
VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
Development Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:          People's Republic of Bangladesh
Amount:            US$25 Million equivalent
Terms:             Standard
Purpose:           To assist in increasing the efficiency, quality and
output of vocational training institutions, improving
employee productivity and strengthening the Government's
capability to plan, manage and evaluate vocational skill
training. The proposed credit would finance: construction,
furniture and equipment for the Secretariat of the National
Council for Skill Development and Training (NCSDT) and for
five Technical Training Centers (TTCs) at Barisal, Bogra,
Comilla, Khulna and Mymensingh; equipment for two existing
TTCs at Mirpur and Rajshahi; expenditures on additional
staff salaries and training materials for NCSDT, the five
new TTCs and for the introduction of short courses at four
existing TTC's (Mirpur, Rajshahi, Chittagong and Bangla-
German) on a declining basis;staff training for about 415
instructors for the TTCs and about 1,500 training personnel
for in-plant training; and technical assistance and fellow-
ships. The project would increase the output of skilled and
semi-skilled workers from about 600 per annum at present to
over 10,000 by 1983. The project faces no special risk
except that of delay because the project implementing agency
has not previously executed an IDA-financed project. The
technical assistance to be provided is intended to minimize
this risk.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated Costs:                                Local  Foreign  Total
------US$ million----
Items
Construction                   5.72   2.16     7.88
Site development             1.17   0.29     1.46
Building                    4.09   1.75      5.84
Professional services        0.46   0.12     0.58
Furniture & Equipment          0.53   2.48     3.01
Furniture                    0.36   0.19     0.55
Equipment                    0.17   2.29     2.46
Technical assistance           0.65   2.59     3.24
Fellowships                  0.01   0.58     0.59
Experts                      0.49   1.96     2.45
Staff training              0.15   0.05      0.20
Operating Costs                3.80   5.51     9.31
Salaries                    3.33   0.00      3.33
Consumable training
materials                  0.47   5.51     5.98
Total base cost               10.70  12.73    23.44
Contingencies                 4.52   4.43      8.95
Total project cost            15.22  17.16    32.39
Financing Plan:                               Government    IDA   Total
…-----…US$ million------
7.39      25.0   32.39
Rate of Return:   Not applicable



- 11iii
Estimated
Disbursements:                     FY80   FY81   FY82   FY83   FY84   FY85
----------------US$ million------------
Annual              .4   3.6    6.2      7.8    3.9    3.1
Cumulative          .4   4.0   10.2    18.0   21.9   25.0
Appraisal
Report:          Bangladesh - Staff Appraisal of a Vocational Training
Project May 10, 1979, Report No. 2316-BD






INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH FOR A
VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
credit to the People's Republic of Bangladesh for the equivalent of US$25
million, on standard IDA terms, to help finance a vocational training project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        A Basic Economic Report on Bangladesh, entitled "Bangladesh:
Development in a Rural Economy" (Report No. 455-BD, of September 15, 1974)
was distributed to the Executive Directors on October 1, 1974. The most
recent economic mission visited the country in June 1978 and its report
entitled "Bangladesh: Current Trends and Development Issues" (Report No.
2245-BD of December 15, 1978) was circulated on December 20, 1978.
Background
3.        When Bangladesh became independent seven years ago, the newly formed
Government inherited a shattered economy: the country had lost a large number
of its academic and business elite, while much of the physical infrastructure
had been demolished. Agricultural and industrial production and trade had
come to a standstill. Attempts to revive the economy were complicated by the
necessities to fashion a national government out of a provincial administra-
tion, to establish development institutions serving agriculture, industry,
trade and banking, and to reorient agriculture and industry after the loss
of the West Pakistan market.
4.        The first years of independence were difficult.  Bad harvests in
1972-73 were followed by damaging floods in 1974. International terms of
trade worsened considerably as prices of foodgrains, petroleum, fertilizer
and cement rose sharply while jute, the predominant export, stagnated. In-
flation, falling real wages, labor unrest and political instability added
to the troubles.
5.        Economic improvements in recent years, together with conditions of
greater political stability, have removed the crisis atmosphere affecting
economic policy making in the early years of independence when relief and
1/   Parts I and II of this report are substantially the same as Parts I
and II of the President's Report for the Oxbow Lakes Fishery Project
(Report No. P-2490-BD), dated March 15, 1979.



- 2 -
rehabilitation and then the achievement of economic stabilization were un-
avoidably the paramount concern of Bangladesh's policy makers. The present
time may therefore be characterized as a period of consolidation of the
country's economic recovery from the shocks of the early 1970s. It is also
a period which offers the policy makers an opportunity to focus anew on the
longer-term needs of development. In recognition of its need for a fund-
amental reorientation of policies, the Government wisely chose to put off a
new Five Year Plan by two years. The current Two-Year Plan (FY79 and 80)
calls for Bangladesh to clear the decks for future action (partly through a
screening of the 1400 projects on the present project list to weed out un-
economic projects) and to study and consider the development strategy and
policies to be incorporated in the next Five Year Plan beginning in July 1980.
Recent Developments and Near-Term Prospects
6.        On the political front, the most notable recent development has
been the parliamentary election held in February 1979. For the past several
years Bangladesh has been governed under martial law and without a parliament.
In the recent election, some 29 political parties and groups contested for
300 seats in the newly reconstituted national asembly. Roughly two-thirds of
the seats were won by the Nationalist Party headed by President Ziaur Rahman,
who was previously confirmed as President in elections held in June 1978.
The new assembly will have substantial powers, including control over the
country's finances. Martial law was lifted following the convening of the
new Parliament on April 2, 1979. It remains to be seen what specific impact
these political developments will have upon Bangladesh's economic policies
and prospects. One area, for example, in which the present government is
anticipating a salutary effect is in the investment climate; it is hoped that
both domestic and foreign investors will now be more inclined to assume a more
active role than in the past. It is also anticipated that the Government will
soon be able both to take major decisions on important policy issues and to
implement programs that have been pending the outcome of the recent election.
7.        FY78 was a relatively good one for the economy.  Mostly as the
result of a large grain crop, which recovered from the substantial decline
in the previous year, and a 10% increase in industrial output, GDP grew by
7.8% in real terms after only a 1.7% rise in FY77. For the third year in a
row, Bangladesh was spared major droughts, floods or cyclones. Foodgrain
output reached a record level of 13.3 million tons. The favorable results
in agriculture are explained not only by good weather but also by construc-
tive Government actions resulting in sharply increased supplies of fertilizer,
other agricultural inputs and credit, and a larger and more efficient procure-
ment effort, at prices attractive to farmers. Results for wheat have been
particularly encouraging. Jute output also increased substantially in FY78,
partly due to the Intensive Jute Cultivation Scheme (IJCS) which, in only a
few years' time, has risen to cover 500,000 acres and is expected to cover one
million acres in the current year. However, raw jute prices remained high due
to increased demand and the depletion of inventories in prior years. These
high raw jute prices and an increase in jute workers' salaries resulted in the
jute mills once more suffering large financial losses.



- 3 -
8.        A strong upturn in industrial output occurred because of a revival
in consumer demand, an improvement in investment, and more liberal avail-
ability of imported raw materials. Capacity utilization in industry was
stimulated by increased demand for jute goods and cotton textiles, and by
an intensification of construction activity.
9.        It is too early for an accurate assessment of the growth prospects
for FY79. Present indicationsare that foodgrain output has been below last
year's levels mainly due to adverse weather. A low level of government food-
grain procurement combined with food import arrivals below projected amounts
and high offtake rates have led to a currently worrisome food stock situation.
Remedial actions are underway. Investments in the public and private sector--
particularly in manufacturing--have shown some growth momentum and the con-
struction sector appears to be booming. Whether the overall GDP growth rate
for the year will still be ahead of population growth is uncertain.
10.       Recent fiscal and monetary developments present a mixed picture.
Last year's acceleration in economic growth and imports engendered rapid
growth in government revenues, which rose by about 25% in FY78. Current
expenditure meanwhile rose at about the same rate, reflecting partly a sub-
stantial upward adjustment in the very low salaries of government personnel.
The net result was only a small increase in the current surplus. At the same
time, development expenditures also rose rapidly. In spite of increased aid
disbursements, deficit financing amounted to Tk 1.1 billion, about 9% of cur-
rent revenue. Inflation again became a problem, and this is a worrisome
aspect of current developments in Bangladesh. Overall liquidity continued
to rise during FY78 and began to have its effect on the price level. The
cost of living increased by some 15% in FY78 as compared to 1% in FY77.
Seeking to keep inflation under control, the Government drew up a balanced
budget for FY79. But in spite of continued growth in current revenue and
large aid disbursements, there will still be substantial deficit. Reasons for
this include an apparent underestimation of the cost of the fertilizer sub-
sidy, the still heavy weight of the food subsidy, and the dampening effect of
wage increases on the revenue transfers by the public corporations. Expan-
sionary factors include the stepped-up grain procurement program, expanding
agricultural credit, and increasing financial needs of the private industrial
sector. It will be hard to contain the combined effect of these potentially
inflationary factors during the current year. Monetary and credit restraint,
and most importantly, increased efforts in domestic resource mobilization
will be required in order to create the conditions for balanced future growth.
11.       The most significant development in the FY78 balance of payments
was a 56% increase in import payments after a low import level in FY77.
Almost one fifth of this increase consisted of an increase in grain imports
needed to bring food stocks to a safe level; the remainder provided much of
the wherewithal for accelerated GDP growth: fertilizer, cement, spare parts,
industrial raw materials and capital goods. There was also a sizeable
increase in consumer goods imports.
12.       Although export earnings rose in FY78 by 8%, the surge in imports
resulted in a more-than-doubling of the trade deficit--from $405 million in
FY77 to $852 million in 'y7g8(It should be noted, however, that this was less



- 4 -
than FY75 and FY76 deficits which averaged $950 million.) The increased
export earnings in FY78 represented a continuation of a trend that began with
the 1975 devaluation. The main determinant of last year's improvement was a
16% increase in export prices, especially of traditional exports such as
jute and tea. Although raw jute exports declined due to supply shortages,
jute goods exports were buoyant, mainly due to fiber shortages in inter-
national markets, some substitution of jute for synthetics, and government
incentive policies, including special export bonus subsidies. Jute and jute
product exports still account for about 70% of total Bangladeshi exports.
The growth of minor and non-traditional exports in FY78 was modest as com-
pared with the previous year.
13.       An increasingly significant development in recent years has been
the upward trend in workers' remittances, mostly from migrants to the Middle
East. These remittances amounted to an estimated $83 million in FY78 and
are projected to reach $100 million this year. An offsetting effect, however,
has been the loss of trained Bangladeshis. This had led both to higher costs
for skills in short supply and to delays in implementing certain projects.
(An analysis of this labor migration and its costs and benefits is currently
underway; this study is being financed under the Bank's external research
program.)
14.       The balance of payments for the current year, FY79, is likely to
be marked by a slower growth in imports. The trade deficit is nevertheless
likely to be larger than last year's, partly because of an expected 5%
deterioration in the terms of trade after an improvement of 22% in FY78.
With development expenditures projected to continue to rise, both the Bank
and Government anticipate an FY79 current account deficit slightly over $1
billion. In view of the settlement of certain short-term liabilities and
amortization payments on medium- and long-term debt, the total gap to be
covered by foreign aid disbursements is estimated at almost $1,100 million.
Structural Conditions and Development Issues
15.       Notwithstanding recent gains, especially in foodgrain output and
per capita GDP growth, the salient conditions of Bangladesh are still mass
poverty, a unique environment prone to natural disasters, and dependence on
aid not only for investment financing but also for food and other recurrent
inputs. Life expectancy is short, child mortality is high, and human fertil-
ity remains largely unchecked. A large part of the adult population is
illiterate, ill-fed, ill-housed and underemployed. Although the economy has
largely recovered from the shocks suffered in the early 1970s, in a number
of areas it has yet to reach the FY70 levels. In FY78 per capita income
($91), domestic savings (3% of GDP), per capita rice production (notwith-
standing last year's record crop) and average nutrition levels remained
depressed below their pre-independence levels. The investment ratio (13%
of GDP in FY78) was restored to about the FY69 rate after some years of
depression to considerably lower levels. The country remains critically
dependent upon foreign aid, which covers some 75-80% of public investment.
16.       Bangladesh has not been self-sufficient in food for over two decades.
In spite of foodgrain imports averaging 1.8 million tons annually in recent
years (1.6 million tons in FY78), nutritional levels are believed to be



- 5 -
inadequate for half the population. Farm holdings are small and fragmented.
The density of population on the land is already extremely high, and land-
lessness is on the increase; almost half the rural population (comprising
nearly 90% of Bangladesh's 85 million people) is landless or virtually land-
less. Population growth is continuing at a rapid pace--about 2.7% annually.
The country's resources are essentially its land, water, and people. Other
natural resoures, excepting some natural gas deposits, are meager. The
infrastructure remains inadequate, and the lack of managerial and adminis-
trative skills has hindered the country's ability both to plan and to imple-
ment its policies and projects effectively.
17.       Another constraint on development is the segmented social order
characterizing rural Bangladesh. Agricultural change, which is critical to
overall development, is impeded by a rural power structure and social system
that often works to obstruct collective agricultural interests at the village
level. This system tends to allow development initiatives to be captured
by the better-off, as the national government has only limited control over
local behavior. Consequently, government and donor attempts to impose out-
side organization and direction in the interest of the poorest rural classes
have often been frustrated.
18.       Confronted by these formidable structural conditions and constraints,
the Government is currently using the period of its Two Year Plan (TYP), as
noted above, to rationalize certain policies and to clarify its medium- and
longer-term development strategies. The TYP itself recognizes population
control and rural development as top priorities. A nationwide framework for
family planning services has been established, and experiments have been made
with various types of rural development models. Steps have been taken to
provide incentive prices for foodgrains through appropriate procurement
policies, to reduce the levels of producer and consumer subsidies and to
improve the working of public sector corporations, most notably in the jute
manufacturing sector. Greater scope is being given to the private industrial
sector. And the Government has established a Project Implementation Bureau
as a means to help speed up the slow pace of project implementation. The
beneficial results of these reforms are not always readily apparent, and in
a number of cases will take considerable time to show. The TYP itself is,
of course, unlikely to change the course of development, since its period
is too short and most of the development budget during these two years (83%)
is preempted by ongoing projects. Moreover, the TYP's targets in the funda-
mental areas of employment creation and population control are unrealistic.
A further weakness is that the TYP does not clearly indicate which economic
projects are to be weeded out, nor what criteria are to be used to make
decisions about abandoning such projects during the remainder of the TYP
period.
19.       The TYP document lists five important areas where the policy makers
must make critical choices: (i) the respective roles of the public and
private sectors; (ii) the organization of agricultural producers; (iii) the
goals of the national education policy; (iv) the role of subsidies in agri-
cultural prices; and (v) the respective roles of foreign aid and domestic
savings in development financing. While outlining alternative solutions for



- 6 -
these major problem areas, the document does not present a full analysis
of the options. Moreover, it only raises the question of the creation of
non-farm employment for those who can no longer be absorbed by agriculture.
This problem is assuming increasing importance and requires concentrated
Government attention. Other key issues requiring urgent and detailed atten-
tion include pricing policy, improvement in levels of domestic savings,
expansion of export earnings, greater efficiency in project preparation and
implementation, and means to improve public sector management.
20.       Work on both a Perspective Plan (1980-2000) and the Second Five
Year Plan is still in a preliminary stage. Present indications are that the
Government will give emphasis to the following: (i) legal and institutional
changes to bring about a rural orientation and decentralization of planning;
(ii) achievement of food self-sufficiency by 1985; (iii) employment creation
and population control; (iv) drastic reductions in subsidies, and other
means to mobilize domestic resources; and (iv) a major new effort to reduce
illiteracy. It remains to be seen, of course, what specific new modalities
will be devised for achieving these broad objectives. But these are all
central objectives, and much of IDA's own economic and sectoral work program
is currently addressed to the analysis of rural development (including the
dynamics of demographic growth), food production, trade policy and industrial
development prospects, and domestic resource mobilization. Considerable
attention is also being given, particularly by IDA's resident mission, to
finding ways and means to improve aid coordination and project implementation.
21.       It appears to be generally appreciated, therefore, that in the
preparation of a development strategy and plan with realistic short and
medium-term targets, a clear set of priorities and a consistent resource
allocation pattern will need to focus on the following key areas: First,
and central to any program to raise living standards, is the need to check
the rapid growth of population. The main specific task is to increase effec-
tive delivery of family planning services, while continuing to motivate
families to practice birth control. The second key area, because of its
large potential for supplying food requirements and providing a broad dis-
tribution of benefits, is the need to increase agricultural productivity.
IDA is currently collaborating with the Government in the formulation of a
medium-term crop production plan. Farm yields are far below what is environ-
mentally and technologically feasible. The main constraints -- inadequate
incentives, inefficient delivery of inputs, and the slow progress of rural
development programs -- are essentially administrative in nature. The rural
power and social structure compound the inherent difficulties in mounting
and administering large programs that will reach effectively the many mil-
lions of people that live in Bangladeshi villages.  These difficulties must
be tackled with great resolve and singleness of purpose if they are to be
overcome. Third, exports and supporting agricultural and industrial devel-
opment are essential to the country's future economic viability. In this
connection, improved efficiency of the jute industry, expansion of labor-
intensive industries based on local raw materials (e.g. tea, fish, leather,
paper, spices, fruits, vegetables and handicrafts), and the promotion of new



- 7 -
industrial export products are essential elements of a successful export
strategy. The fourth key area is to increase domestic resource mobilization.
While the potential for increased public and private saving beyond the rate
of growth of the economy may be limited, some margin should be possible
through measures to increase taxation, improve tax administration and reduce
the very large subsidies to public corporations. While these elements of a
development strategy are not the only requirements to improve the economy,
they are among the most important and will themselves place heavy demands on
an understaffed and overburdened development administration. The fifth area,
therefore, is to strengthen the administration and to economize on the demands
placed upon it. Where administrative capacity is limited, administrative
controls in such matters as industrial policy, pricing, food policy and trade
should be minimized to the extent feasible and consistent with social objec-
tives. There remains considerable scope also for administrative economy in
these and other areas and through greater decentralization of authority and
responsibility.
22.       External Capital Requirements.  Even with significant improvement
in its domestic resource mobilization, Bangladesh will continue to need
substantial external assistance to support its development efforts. In the
short run, such support is becoming even more important in view of the fact
that the pace of development expenditures has begun to accelerate. It is
roughly estimated that aid disbursements, which amounted to $797 million in
FY78, should rise to $1,095 million in FY79. These would comprise $250 mil-
lion of food, $520 million of commodities and $325 million of project aid.
Since Bangladesh began the year with an aid pipeline amounting to $1,912
million, it should be possible to disburse about $625 million from that pipe-
line. Hence, about $470 million of disbursements from new aid would be
necessary. To yield disbursements at this level in FY79 and to build up
the pipeline for FY80, required FY79 commitments are estimated at approxi-
mately $1,600 million. On the basis of donor pledges and indications given
at the January 1979 Aid Group meetings, and taking into account actual and
prospective commitments by other donors, this target could be realized. It
is important to stress that Bangladesh's capital requirements must be met
to a large extent by external assistance, at least for the time being, if
economic growth and execution of current development plans are not to be
slowed for lack of financial resources. At the same time, the Government
must strive to increase exports, to be prudent in the use of foreign exchange,
and to make increased efforts to increase domestic resource mobilization.
Finally, in the context of the above-noted limitations of Bangladesh's devel-
opment administration, it should be recognized that substantial improvements
in administration are likely to take many years. Hence, the Government, IDA
and other external assistance agencies will have to tailor their requirements
in terms of project design, preparation and implementation to these admini-
strative realities. And in all cases, particular priority should be given
to those sectors and those types of financial and technical assistance where
institutional improvements are most needed.



- 8 -
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BANGLADESH
23.       Bangladesh became a member of the Bank and IDA in August 1972.  Ini-
tially, Bank Group operations in Bangladesh concentrated on the reactivation
of uncompleted projects, financed under credits made originally to Pakistan,
before 1971. Eleven such credits, amounting to US$148.6 million (including
US$44.1 million for the repayment of amounts that had been disbursed under
the corresponding previous credits to Pakistan and net of cancellations) were
made to Bangladesh. In addition, as of March 31, 1979, 30 new credits, ex-
cluding the consolidation credit of US$31 million referred to in paragraph
24 below, have been made totalling US$843.7 million. Of these, US$500 million
have been for seven program credits. The project credits have emphasized
agricultural development, but also included amounts for population, telecom-
munications, transport and industry. On June 18, 1976 Bangladesh became the
105th member of the IFC, but no IFC investments have been approved as yet.
24.       Agreement has been reached between Bangladesh and most of the bi-
lateral and multilateral donors concerning the assumption by Bangladesh of
portions of the debt contracted by Pakistan, before Bangladesh became inde-
pendent. This will lead to some increase in debt service and, while the debt
service ratio is not expected to exceed 20% over the next ten years, it may
do so by the mid-1980s, unless careful debt management policies are pursued
and aid is provided on appropriately concessional terms.   With respect to
the Bank Group, Bangladesh agreed to accept liability for portions of IDA
credits extended for projects visibly located in Bangladesh and completed
before independence. Based on this agreement, a consolidation loan of about
US$54.9 million, and a consolidation credit of about US$31.0 million were
signed on February 14, 1975. The Bank Group's share of Bangladesh's outstand-
ing external debt is not expected to rise significantly above the present
level of about 24% over the next few years.
25.       Annex II contains a summary statement of IDA credits and the Bank
loan made to Bangladesh as of March 31, 1979, and notes on the execution of
ongoing projects. While disbursement of the program credits has proceeded
satisfactorily, project credit disbursements have lagged far behind expecta-
tions, owing inter alia to delays in the release of local funds, approval
of contracts, employment of consultants, and appointment of staff. The Gov-
ernment has taken some steps to eliminate bottlenecks and the results are
beginning to be reflected in improvements in project implementation and dis-
bursement performance. However, serious implementation constraints remain
because of shortage of qualified staff, over-centralized bureaucratic proce-
dures and organizational deficiencies. Progress is being made on these issues.
For example, at the Government's request, IDA is providing assistance to im-
prove organization and procedures, especially in the ministries and agencies
dealing with agriculture and water resources. Further, the Government has
taken actions including improved procedures for recruitment of civil servants
and increased emphasis on training - which are important not only as steps
towards gradually improving the quality of public administration, but also
as evidence of its awareness of the problem and concern to do something about



- 9 -
it. On the organizational side, the Government is in the process of estab-
lishing planning cells in the main ministries and agencies and in strengthen-
ing the Planning Ministry. In this connection, IDA is providing assistance
both under specific projects and under the Technical Assistance Credits
(409-BD, 622-BD and 827-BD).
26.       Of the 23 new project credits totalling US$343.7 million, 14 credits
totalling US$241.5 million have been directed towards agriculture and rural
development (excluding subprojects of the Technical Assistance credits allo-
cated to this sector). Their basic objective is to support the delivery of
inputs, including assured water, through quick yielding projects with low
capital intensity. While the pace of implementation has been disappointing
so far, the fundamental need to improve agricultural productivity means that
projects geared to the rural sector should remain the cornerstone of future
IDA lending. However, in the shorter term, the rate of planned lending for
agriculture will be a function of progress in improving the currently limited
absorptive capacity of the project executing agencies. At the same time,
greater efforts in institution building are being made through closer super-
vision and technical assistance where necessary. Some progress has already
been made in correcting problems in ongoing projects. During the next few
months, proposed credits for rural works, low-lift pumps and a second rural
development project are expected to be ready for consideration.
27.       Industry has been the main beneficiary of the seven program credits
approved to date. For the reasons given in paragraphs 34-39 of my Report
and Recommendation on the Seventh Imports Program Credit (P-2373-BD, dated
November 29, 1978), program lending to Bangladesh will continue to be required
while efforts are made to correct basic structural weaknesses in the economy.
Nevertheless, the share of program lending in total lending on a year-to-year
basis is planned to decline gradually during the next few years. The indus-
trial sector has also benefitted from DFC and small industry projects. IFC
is currently in the process of identifying suitable investment opportunities.
28.       The enormity of Bangladesh's population problem makes this an ex-
tremely high priority sector, limited only by its absorptive capacity. The
first population project (Credit 533-BD) is now making encouraging progress
and a second population and family health project is expected to be ready for
consideration shortly. Improved education and availability of trained man-
power is also crucial. Past lending in this field has emphasized agricultural
and technical training and future operations, while maintaining a similar
basic emphasis, are expected to include assistance for primary and management
education as well.
29.       Given Bangladesh's immense needs, specific efforts to identify and
prepare projects in transport, industry, energy and power, telecommunications
and water supply and sewerage are now under way. In this connection, particu-
lar emphasis is being placed upon projects which provide infrastructure for
the rural sector, which process or provide outlets for its products, or which
reduce the strain on Bangladesh's foreign exchange resources. Such projects
could make a significant contribution towards supporting Bangladesh's



- 10 -
development efforts. In view of Bangladesh's difficult foreign exchange
position, IDA credits should cover all foreign exchange costs. However, all
external lenders are inhibited from achieving the levels of resource transfers
appropriate to Bangladesh's economic circumstances by difficulties in the
preparation and implementation of development projects. In addition, the
Government's capacity to carry out projects is constrained, inter-alia, by a
low domestic savings rate. In these circumstances, and in order to direct
IDA lending to those sectors - such as agricultural and rural development -
where the percentage of foreign exchange costs is relatively low, the financ-
ing of local currency expenditures also is justified.
30.       In addition to lending, economic and sector work provides the basis
for continuing dialogue between the Bank Group and the Government on develop-
ment strategy, and for the coordination of external assistance within the
framework of the Bangladesh Aid Group. Recent activities in this area have
concentrated on food policy, industrial investment strategy, and increased
domestic resource mobilization.
31.       The scope and complexity of Bangladesh's development problems will
continue to strain the physical, human, and financial resources of an already
overburdened development administration. Since substantial improvements will
take many years, external assistance agencies, including the Bank Group, will
have to tailor their requirements in terms of project design, preparation
and implementation to the administrative realities. They will also have to
contemplate higher amounts of technical assistance and supervision than is
the case in many other countries. Nevertheless, there are opportunities for
making significant progress in improving economic conditions for the people
of Bangladesh. Although progress is bound to be slow and will require pain-
staking efforts, these efforts are nonetheless worth making.
PART III - MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT AND VOCATIONAL TRAINING
32.       Although Bangladesh is a labor surplus country, it suffers from a
shortage of managerial and skilled manpower. This shortage, which seriously
impedes project implementation, industrial development and labor productivity,
can be attributed to three main factors: the small output of skilled per-
sonnel from existing training institutions; the almost complete lack of in-
plant training and retraining programs for industrial workers; and, more
recently, the depletion of the existing skilled manpower stock owing to emi-
gration, mainly to the Middle East. The latter has become a significant factor:
for example, during 1977, the Bangladesh Textile Mills Corporation lost 300
skilled workers to Iran; and the Bangladesh Steel and Engineering Corporation
and the Bangladesh Chemical Industries Corporation each lost about 300-400
skilled/semiskilled workers to other countries in the Middle East. Although
Bangladesh is a relative newcomer among labor-exporting countries, the
departure of manpower has accelerated during the last three years. In 1977
alone, about 15,800 Bengalis secured employment abroad, more than twice the
number in 1976. According to Bureau of Manpower, Employment and Training
(BMET) estimates, about 31,000 workers left Bangladesh between January 1976



- 11 -
and June 1978 for employment abroad, of which six Middle Eastern countries
(UAE, Iraq, Kuwait, Oman, Qatar and Saudi Arabia) accounted for over 80%
of the total.
33.       Apart from the existing shortage, the demand for skilled manpower
is likely to increase in the near future to meet the requirements of the
Government's development plans. However, its size is difficult to estimate
because no comprehensive assessment of Bangladesh's manpower needs has yet
been undertaken. The following estimates of annual skilled and semiskilled
manpower requirements are therefore no more than orders of magnitude. By
1983/84, Bangladesh's annual domestic requirement for additional skilled
workers is estimated at about 30,400, about one-half in the non-agricultural
sectors, and for additional semi-skilled workers at about 164,000, including
about 135,000 for the agricultural sector. For the manufacturing, construc-
tion, utilities and transport sectors alone, about 40,000 additional skilled
and semiskilled workers per year are expected to be required. External demand
for skilled and semiskilled Bangladeshi labor, mainly in the petroleum export-
ing countries of the Middle East, is conservatively estimated at about 10,200
per year, entirely in the non-agricultural sectors.
34.       Compared with the annual domestic demand for additional skilled and
semi-skilled workers in the non-agricultural sectors alone (40,000), the esti-
mated annual supply from existing formal and non-formal training programs is
about 2,000. Despite this enormous gap between existing supply and estimated
demand, the Government has not so far attempted to limit emigration partly
because of the practical difficulty of keeping people in the country against
their will and partly because of the financial benefits to the Bangladesh
economy. For example, remittances from Bangladeshi workers in the Middle East
and Western Europe amounted to $83.4 million in 1977 and the value of goods
shipped under the Government's Wage Earners' Scheme was estimated at about
$60 million. In 1978, remittances amounted to $107 million. At these levels,
remittances already constitute Bangladesh's second largest source of foreign
exchange earnings. While these short-term benefits are obvious and relatively
easy to quantify in financial terms, the short- and longer-term costs to the
economy of reducing the country's already limited stock of experienced skilled
and semiskilled manpower are more difficult to estimate. The Government and
IDA are currently undertaking a regional study of labor migration with a view
to quantifying its costs and benefits and providing a basis for specific
manpower export and development policies.
35.       To summarize, the existing and potentially increasing shortage of
skilled labor is a significant impediment to Bangladesh's development. It
makes the impleidentation of development projects and the achievement of
production targets difficult; and it limits productivity gains achieved by
increasing other inputs to the production process. While the current rate of
emigration of skilled and semiskilled workers may not be sustained owing to
changes in development priorities and in employment opportunities in some
Middle Eastern countries, Bangladesh's own needs, and its industrial devel-
opment in particular, will require a much greater supply of skilled manpower



- 12 -
than the present output capacity of its training institutions. Bangladesh
must therefore strengthen its infrastructure of institutions and programs to
meet these short- and medium-term requirements.
Vocational Training
36.       Vocational training in Bangladesh is undertaken by three Ministries:
Manpower Development and Social Welfare; Education; and Industries. The
Ministry of Manpower conducts two-year training courses in fourteen trades
at five Technical Training Centers (TTCs) for secondary school dropouts and
other unemployed and/or underemployed workers normally with not less than
eight years' schooling. It is also responsible for an Apprenticeship Training
Scheme. Within the Ministry, the Directorate of Training is charged with
implementing and supervising both programs. The Ministry of Education offers
two-year certificate courses in ten trades at twenty-three Vocational Training
Institutes (VTIs) and at thirteen Polytechnics (only in the afternoon shift).
However, each VTI provides only two trade courses.The entrance requirement for
the Ministry of Education's VTIs and Polytechnics is grade VIII graduation.
The Ministry of Industries operates training programs at the Bangladesh
Industrial Technical Assistance Center, and the Textile Institute, and short
courses within state corporations. In 1976, the total output from all these
courses was just over 2,000, of which 600 were trained in the TTCs, 800 in
the VTIs and Polytechnics and 700 in the Ministry of Industries' schemes.
Financing
37.       By international standards, Bangladesh spends only a small share
of its resources on education and training. In 1978/79, for example, recur-
rent expenditure on education and training totalled about Tk 1,390 million,
13.2% of central government current expenditure and 1.1% of estimated GDP;
development expenditure, expected to total Tk 720 million in 1978/79, accounts
for about 5.2% of the Annual Development Program (ADP). Vocational training
accounts for about 2% of recurrent educational expenditures but has increased
at an average rate of about 88% p.a. over the 3-year period 1976/77-1978/79,
an indication that the Government now recognizes its importance. However,
the 1978/79 budget for vocational training (Tk 29.4 million) remains inade-
quate for the task of producing the requisite numbers of skilled/semi-skilled
workers to meet both domestic and foreign manpower demands.
Issues
38.       The main issues in vocational training concern its relevance to
the needs of the economy, the quality of output from vocational training
programs, the utilization of vocational training institutions and the lack
of coordination among the ministries involved in skill training. First,
regarding its relevance, too much emphasis has been given to pre-employment
training at the established training centers, at the expense of in-plant
training and retraining as a means of increasing workers' skills, productivity
and earnings potential. Training plans have been made without prior assess-
ment of the labor market, the manpower needs of state enterprises or the
activities of other ministries which require skilled manpower. This has
resulted in an imbalance between the supply of and demand for the numbers



- 13 -
and types of workers trained. Admission to courses is limited to candidates
with formal educational qualifications, although occupations such as masonry
and plumbing require only basic literacy and numeracy skills. Second, regard-
ing the quality of output, the skill level of students graduating from existing
training programs is low owing, inter alia, to inadequate testing standards,
insufficient training materials, inexperienced and, until recently, poorly
motivated instructors and the virtual absence of training supervision. Third,
regarding its efficiency, there is considerable underutilization of existing
facilities, the existing two year courses are too long for basic skill train-
ing and there is little or no coordination or common purpose between the three
main Ministries responsible for vocational training.
Strategy for Expansion and Improvement
39.       Recognizing the need to develop a coordinated vocational training
system, the Ministry of Manpower has been working on proposals to establish
closer relationships with industry and other ministries. The first of these,
a National Advisory Committee proposed in 1976, was never implemented because
it was felt that an advisory body would be ineffective. The second, an inter-
ministerial council, was convened in 1977 to decide on the programming and
budgeting of training for various ministries. A program was approved but
could not be implemented because of the lack of resources. The Government
has now upgraded and expanded this body to form the nucleus of the National
Council for Skill Development and Training with a Secretariat located in the
Bureau of Manpower Employment and Training, responsible for planning voca-
tional training and the development of national skill standards. The Ministry
of Manpower's plans for the development of vocational training during the next
seven years (1978-85) originally included the following: three existing TTCs
at Mirpur, Chittagong and Rajshahi would be improved and expanded; three other
TTCs under construction, at Khulna, Rangamati and Bogra, would be completed;
and four new TTCs would be built at Comilla, Mymensingh, Faridpur and Barisal.
This program would have increased the annual output capacity of TTCs from
about 1,400 to about 3,400 under the regular two-year program. The Ministry
of Manpower also planned to introduce an accelerated (one-year) modular train-
ing program as a second shift at all TTCs so that by 1983 the TTCs would have
produced a further 6,600 trained workers, giving a total output capacity of
10,000 trained workers per year. The Ministry of Manpower also planned to
establish a National Skills Development Institute and an Islamic Center for
Technical and Vocational Training and Research. While the overall objectives
of these plans and the Government's request for assistance were desirable,
implementation appeared unrealistic in light of their total capital cost,
their implications for recurrent expenditures and management capacity. As
a result of discussions between the Government and IDA, the proposals were
modified and the project described in paragraphs 43-49 of this report was
prepared.
External Financing in Vocational Training
40.       Since 1972, the Government has received extensive technical assist-
tance from multilateral and bilateral sources: the Swedish International



- 14 -
Development Agency (SIDA) is assisting the Ministry of Education to develop
VTIs and the Vocational Teacher Training Institute at Bogra; the Federal
Republic of Germany is providing financial and technical assistance for the
expansion and improvement of the Bangla-German TTC; ILO/NORAD have assisted
in the extension and improvement of the Marine Diesel Center at Narayanganj.
A recently approved UNDP project (July 1978) aims at (a) upgrading the skill
levels of selected managerial and supervisory staff at the Bangladesh Textile
Mills Corporation (BTMC) and skilled workers in selected mills, (b) establish-
ing central training and advisory services for BTMC mills, and (c) improving
machine productivity by establishing suitable preventive maintenance systems
and repair services.
41.       UNDP/ILO assistance has also been extensive (US$8.0 million between
1973-78). It has organized training programs for deck personnel, low-lift
pump operators and mechanics, the improvement and development of employment
services, a manpower survey, and management development and training assist-
ance to the Bangladesh Road Transport Corporation (Truck and Bus Division).
In addition, since 1973, UNDP/ILO has been financing the services (US$2.2
million) of international experts, spares and equipment to:
(a) assist in the organization and training of staff of the Bureau
of Manpower, Employment and Training (BMET); and to support
activities for all existing and future training centers as well
as broad, industry-based training schemes;
(b) upgrade two training centers (Mirpur, Rajshahi);
(c) assist in the initial planning for design, construction,
operation and routine inspection of new TTCs (Bogra, Comilla,
Faridpur, Mymensingh, Khulna, Barisal and Rangamati); and
(d) assist in making three of the new TTCs (Rangamati, Khulna
and Bogra) operational.
This project has fallen short of its objectives, mainly because the inade-
quate operational budget allocated by the Government did not permit sufficient
counterpart staff to be appointed to the various sections of the BMET. A
project revision to adjust project objectives to the revised Government
training strategy is now underway.
Bank Group's Role in Education and Training
42.       Previous Bank Group lending in the education sector includes:
Credit 407-BD (1973) which aimed to improve and expand institutions providing
education and training in technical and agricultural subjects; and Credit
621-BD (1976) which aimed to expand and improve agricultural and rural train-
ing. IDA assistance for education to date has been concentrated on agriculture
and the major share has gone to the Bangladesh Agricultural University (BAU).
Although BAU has become the main source of trained agricultural manpower in
the country, in the past its teaching and research programs tended to be over-
specialized, whereas Bangladesh's present state of agricultural development
requires technicians with more generalized training. Significant progress



- 15 -
has been made over the past few years in improving the practical relevance of
BAU's teaching and research efforts. In addition, Credit 621-BD is expanding
the training capacity for middle-level agricultural manpower through assistance
to seven Agricultural Training Institutes and the Bogra Academy, but training
shortages are projected even with this higher capacity. In technical education,
new facilities have been constructed for five polytechnics that will provide
technician training (under Cr. 407-BD) and equipment has been provided to
eight others. All five polytechnics have started in new facilities which
became operational on a limited basis in December 1978. Efforts are under
way to revise curricula to give a practical orientation to technical education
and to improve the quality of teaching staff. The eight IDA-assisted poly-
technics are also being used on a second shift basis for vocational training.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
43.       The project was identified initially by an education and training
sector mission that visited Bangladesh in October/November 1977. It was
prepared by a Government working committee, chaired by the Secretary,
Ministry of Manpower Development, Labor and Social Welfare and assisted by
a UNESCO project preparation team, which completed its work in May 1978.
Following project appraisal in August/September 1978 and a post-appraisal
mission in January 1979, credit negotiations took place in Washington,
April 5-12, 1979, at which the Government was represented by a delegation
led by Mr. A.B.S. Safdar, Secretary, Ministry of Manpower Development and
Social Welfare. Attached as Annex III is a Supplementary Project Data Sheet
and, following Annex III, a project map. The Staff Appraisal Report entitled
"Bangladesh - Vocational Training Project" (Report No. 2316-BD dated May 10,
1979) is being circulated separately to the Executive Directors.
Project Concept
44.       Against the background of Bangladesh's manpower development and
vocational training needs outlined in Part III of this report, the project's
principal objectives are threefold: (a) to increase the efficiency, quality
and output of technical training centers; (b) to raise the skill level and
productivity of existing workers employed in Bangladesh's public sector cor-
porations; and (c) to strengthen the Government's capability to plan, manage
and evaluate the further development of vocational and skill training. The
project therefore seeks to achieve both quantitative and qualitative goals and
is designed to address the country's shorter-term incremental and replacement
needs for skilled manpower as well as the longer-term institutional develop-
ment of the vocational training system.
Project Components and Description
45.       The project includes:
(a) construction of, and furniture and equipment for:



- 16 -
(i) five Technical Training Centers (TTCs) at Barisal, Bogra,
Comilla, Khulna and Mymensingh; and
(ii) the Secretariat of the National Council for Skill
Development and Training (NCSDT) in Dacca;
(b) additional equipment for two existing TTCs at Mirpur and
Rajshahi;
(c) provision of and/or support for:
(i) salaries of additional staff required for the
Secretariat of the NCSDT;
(ii) training materials and salaries of instructors required
for the five new TTCs to be constructed under (a)(i) above;
(iii) training materials and salaries of additional instructors
required for the phased introduction of six month training
courses at four existing TTCs (Bangla-German, Chittagong,
Mirpur and Rajshahi); and
(iv) training materials and stipends for the introduction of
in-plant training at six public sector corporations;
(d) initial and refresher training for about 415 additional
instructors for the five new and four existing TTCs and for
about 1,500 training officers/supervisors for the in-plant
training schemes; and
(e) technical assistance, including about 41 man-years of consultant/
specialist services and about 49 man-years of fellowships.
46.       Technical Training Centers (TTCs).  The five new (Barisal, Bogra,
Comilla, Khulna and Mymensingh) and four existing (Bangla-German, Chittagong,
Mirpur and Rajshahi) TTCs included in the project were selected following
a detailed training needs assessment conducted by the Government, with ILO
assistance, during the second half of 1978. Their courses would include,
inter alia, drafting, general mechanics, welding, auto and diesel mechanics,
wiring, armature winding, plumbing, masonry and pump maintenance. Commencing
January 1, 1980 with the second (afternoon) shift, the present two year
course would be replaced by a six month course at the existing Bangla-German,
Chittagong, Mirpur and Rajshahi TTCs and training at the five new TTCs, con-
struction of which is expected to be completed by December 31, 1982, would
be carried out on the basis of six month courses from the outset. In this
connection, the Government has agreed to replace the existing two year train-
ing courses with training modules of employable skills of not more than six
months duration by January 1, 1982 (Section 3.09 of DCA). To accommodate this
expanded program, the TTCs would require about 415 new instructors who would
be recruited from public sector corporations (experienced skilled workers and
foremen). Subject to minimum qualifications of six years! primary education
and five years'industrial experience in their trade and following appropriate



- 17 -
literacy, numeracy and skill tests, these instructor-trainees would undergo
six months or 720 hours of instructor training at the Bangla-German, Chittagong
or Mirpur TTCs where technical assistance for this purpose is already being
provided, mainly by ILO. The project includes technical and financial assist-
ance to continue and strengthen instructor training at these three institutions
and also to provide short refresher training for 170 existing TTC instructors.
To ensure the availability and quality of instructors for TTCs, the Government
has agreed to appoint them on the basis of the results of skill and trade
tests and to give preference to persons with relevant industrial experience
(Section 3.12 of DCA).
47.       The project includes residential accommodation for instructors at
all TTCs in accordance with the Government's policy and the need to provide
incentives for the recruitment and retention of teaching staff. All project
TTCs, excepting Bangla-German, Chittagong, Mirpur and Rajshahi where facil-
ities are already available, also include boarding accommodation for students/
trainees. In addition, to expedite the start-up of the new TTCs and to
facilitate the introduction of the six month training course at the four
existing TTCs, the project includes provision for salaries and consumable
training materials for the five new TTCs commencing January 1, 1983 for two
years and for the four existing TTCs from January 1, 1980 for five years, the
latter in respect of the additional staff and incremental training materials
required.
48.       In-Plant Training.  The project includes provision for the introduc-
tion of in-plant training to improve the skill level and quality of the labor
force in six public sector corporations. In-plant training schemes would be
developed by technical assistance experts who would assist in: the diagnosis
of training needs, the preparation and organization of training programs and
materials, and the implementation and evaluation of training within the
corporations. They would also help develop a cadre of personnel in the
corporations which, over time, could create effective training programs to
promote productivity as well as meeting the internal training needs of the
corporations. Under this component of the project, the apprentice training
scheme for recognized skilled occupations would be revised and closely coor-
dinated with TTC courses to ensure continued personal and skill development of
trainees. An ILO-sponsored National Management Development Program is now
training about 150 supervisors and training officers to establish a training
infrastructure within the corporations; course topics range from determination
of training needs and the preparation of training plans to the evaluation
of training programs. This program would be coordinated with the IDA-financed
component under which about 1,500 first line supervisors would receive short
courses in instructional techniques, industrial relations, safety and produc-
tion methods, as well as the technical subjects necessary to prepare them for
routine, on-the-job upgrading of production workers. A technical assistance
expert financed by the project would organize the courses. In addition, 28
man years of fellowships would allow selected training managers and training
officers to gain experience abroad on the organization and management of
training within enterprises in the same sectors as their own.



- 18 -
49.       A National Council for Skills Development and Training (NCSDT) has
recently been established comprising inter alia Ministers or Secretaries of
the Ministries of Manpower, Education, Industries, Finance and Planning and
representatives of the Employers' Association and the Trades Unions. The
Council's mandate includes preparing draft legislation or administrative
regulations/resolutions pertaining to training, formulating national training
policies, approving training plans and recommending allocation of financial
resources. It will also be responsible for evaluating existing and approving
new curricula and national skill standards and tests. The NCSDT will be
assisted by a Secretariat within the Ministry of Manpower Development and
Social Welfare, headed by the Director General, Bureau of Manpower Employment
and Training (BMET) and the Secretariat's functions will be divided between
three divisions: a Directorate of Training Operations, responsible for tech-
nical training centers, in-plant and apprentice training and staff development;
a Directorate of Planning, responsible for labor market analyses, training
needs assessments, the planning and evaluation of training and the collection
of statistics; and a Directorate of Standards, responsible for curriculum
development, setting skill standards, trade testing and the production of
teaching materials. About one hundred professional level staff are required
for the Secretariat and they are expected to be recruited from among existing
chief instructors and engineering technicians from industrial enterprises.
All staff would receive training through: (a) a fellowship program financed
by the project, (b) participation in courses organized by technical assistance
experts financed under the project, and (c) working as counterparts to the
experts. To facilitate the establishment of the Secretariat, which is funda-
mental to the future organization of vocational training in Bangladesh, the
project also includes provision for the construction of a headquarters build-
ing and for the salaries of the additional staff required for a period of five
years commencing January 1, 1980.
Cost Estimates
50.       Total project costs are estimated at $32.4 million, including about
$1.7 million in import duties and taxes. The foreign exchange component is
estimated at $17.2 million or about 56% of total project cost. Cost esti-
mates are based on unit prices at September 1978 levels. The major elements
in the cost estimates are: civil works, including site development and pro-
fessional fees, for five Technical Training Centers and the Secretariat of
the NCSDT ($7.9 million); furniture and equipment for these facilities and
equipment only for two existing Technical Training Centers ($3.0 million);
incremental operating costs (salaries and consumable materials) for five years
($9.3 million); and technical assistance -- fellowships, experts and staff
training -- ($3.2 million), making a total base project cost of $23.4 million.
Physical contingencies ($2.3 million) and price contingencies ($6.7 million)
total about $9 million.
Financing
51.       The proposed $25 million credit would finance the full foreign ex-
change costs and $7.8 million local costs or about 79% of total project cost,
net of taxes and duties. Financing for the remaining $7.4 million, including



- 19 -
$1.7 million for taxes and duties, would be provided by the Government. In
order to facilitate payment of local currency expenditures by the implementing
agency, the Government would establish a revolving fund of Tk 750,000 in a
commercial bank and replenish it at least monthly to this level (Section
3.10 (b) of draft DCA). A condition of effectiveness of the proposed credit
would be that the Government had established this revolving fund and made the
initial deposit of Tk 750,000 (Section 5.01 (c) of draft DCA).
Implementation
52.       Project implementation would take five years.  The project would
be implemented by a Project Implementation Unit in the Secretariat of NCSDT,
staffed on a full-time basis by a project manager, a coordinator/vocational
training officer, a project architect, a procurement officer, a project
accountant and additional supporting staff (Section 3.07 (a) and Schedule 5 of
draft DCA). The Director General of the Secretariat would serve as project
director. Directors of the TTCs would be responsible to the project director
for the educational development aspects of the project and would assist in
the supervision of civil works. Assistance in project implementation would
also be provided by technical assistance experts financed under the project
(Section 3.02(a) of draft DCA). Agreements, on terms and conditions satis-
factory to the Association, for the provision of technical assistance experts
and fellowships would be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed credit
(Section 5.01 (a) of draft DCA).
53.       Construction of the civil works components would be undertaken by
pre-qualified contractors in three phases: Advance Procurement of Building
Materials; Building; and Site Development and External Works. Although
detailed designs and layouts for the Technical Training Centers were prepared
several years ago, they are no longer appropriate and a private architectural
firm would be hired to redesign the Technical Training Centers, design the
headquarters building for the Secretariat of the NCSDT and supervise the
construction of all facilities included in the project. The appointment of
this firm, on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA, would be a condition
of effectiveness of the proposed credit (Section 5.01(b) of draft DCA). The
five sites needed for the TTC facilities included in the project have already
been acquired and surveyed; the site for the Secretariat of NCSDT will be
acquired by December 31, 1979 (Section 3.05(b) of draft DCA).
54.       Administrative supervision of the above architectural services,
including the preparation of equipment and furniture lists, tenders for the
civil works, equipment and furniture and their execution, delivery and
installation respectively would be carried out by the project implementation
unit. The services of equipment, curriculum, training and other specialists
to be employed for the establishment of the Secretariat of the NCSDT would
also be available to assist in project implementation.
Procurement and Disbursement
55.       Because the value of contracts for civil works, bricks and aggre-
gates, and furniture would be relatively small (less than $0.5 million), they
would be awarded after local competitive bidding under Government procedures



- 20 -
satisfactory to IDA. However, foreign contractors would be free to partici-
pate. Equipment, building materials (excluding bricks and aggregates) and
training materials exceeding $50,000 equivalent in value would be procured
on the basis of international competitive bidding in accordance with IDA
Procurement Guidelines and local manufacturers/suppliers would be accorded a
margin of preference of up to 15% of the c.i.f. cost of competing imports or
the actual customs duty, whichever is lower. Contracts that cannot be grouped
into packages of $50,000 equivalent or more would be awarded on the basis
of local competitive bidding procedures satisfactory to IDA, provided that
such contracts do not exceed $1.5 million equivalent in total (equivalent
to about 15% of the estimated total cost of equipment, building and training
materials). Off-the-shelf items costing less than $15,000 equivalent for
each contract would be awarded on the basis of prudent shopping after obtain-
ing not less than three price quotations, provided such contracts do not
exceed $0.5 million in total (equivalent to about 5% of the estimated total
cost of equipment, building and training materials). Prior IDA approval
would be required for all civil works contracts exceeding $0.2 million
equivalent and all other contracts exceeding $50,000 equivalent.
56.       Disbursements from the credit account would be made for (a) 100%
of the c.i.f. cost of directly imported building materials, equipment and
furniture; (b) 100% of the ex-factory price of locally manufactured building
materials, equipment and furniture; (c) 100% of expenditures on expert ser-
vices, staff training, and overseas fellowships; (d) 60% of the cost of
building materials, equipment and furniture procured locally (e) 60% of local
expenditures on civil works including building materials procured locally;
and (f) an average of about 80% of expenditures on incremental consumable
training materials and staff salaries (100% in calendar years 1980, 1981 and
1982, 80% in 1983, and 48% in 1984). Applications for withdrawals from the
credit would be fully documented except that reimbursement of expenditures
on salaries under category (f) above would be made against certified state-
ments of expenditure. It is expected that the credit would be fully disbursed
by March 31, 1985. The implementing agency would maintain separate project
accounts and have its accounts audited annually by independent auditors
acceptable to IDA (Section 4.01 (c) of draft DCA).
Operation and Maintenance
57.       Responsibility for the operation and routine maintenance of the
physical facilities and equipment would lie with the Chief Instructor of the
Technical Training Centers. Adequate budgetary allocations would be made to
ensure assignment of trained personnel and maintenance staff at each institu-
tion and provision of maintenance materials, utilities, spare parts for in-
structional equipment and training materials (Sections 3.07 and 4.02 of draft
DCA). Approval by the National Economic Council of Project Proformas, includ-
ing adequate provision for staff, materials and maintenance of project insti-
tutions, would be a condition of effectiveness (Section 5.01 (d) of draft DCA).
Monitoring and Evaluation
58.       A system would be developed with the assistance of a consultant for
evaluating the external and internal effectiveness of the training activities



- 21 -
financed under the proposed project. External evaluation would focus on the
effect of training both on the enterprise, and the trainee. Statistics would
be gathered annually from representative enterprises in each industrial sector
covering: (i) expenditure on training; (ii) workers' wages without training
and with training; (iii) annual output per worker; and (iv) capital invest-
ment. For the individual trainee a career follow-up scheme would be devised
to record his progress. Internal evaluation would be concerned with the
training costs of different training modes and delivery systems. It would
aim at identifying the lowest cost system. Implementation of the evalution
system would commence not later than June 1, 1982 and the Government would
make available for IDA review annual evaluation reports during the life of
the project (Section 3.11 of draft DCA).
Benefits and Risks
59.       The project is consistent with the Government's plan to expand
vocational training and increase the skilled manpower needed for industrial
development and for the replacement of skilled workers emigrating to the
Middle East. It would help accelerate the output of skilled and semiskilled
workers, and thus increase the productivity of the industrial and manufac-
turing sectors by achieving a higher ratio of skilled workers to unskilled
workers, thereby reducing the need for extensive on-the-job training.
Industry would also benefit from the program for in-plant training and
upgrading of unskilled workers. In addition, an increase in skilled workers
would enable the country to capitalize (through foreign exchange remittances)
on overseas employment opportunities without disrupting domestic production,
project implementation and productivity. By 1980, with the introduction of
shorter courses, double shifts and upgrading programs, the output of existing
TTCs would increase from about 600 to over 2,500 workers and by 1983, when
project-financed facilities would be fully operational, the total annual
output from the Ministry of Manpower's technical training centers would be
about 10,350 skilled and semiskilled workers in 18 different occupations. The
indirect output from in-plant training would be about 8,500, comprising some
1,500 apprentices and 7,000 production workers. By 1983, project training
would account for 85% of total output from the national vocational training
system and would meet about 40% of the total estimated skilled and semi-skilled
manpower requirements of the non-agricultural sectors.
60.       A major benefit would be the better quality of training given grad-
uates entering the job market through establishing training standards devel-
oped with the participation of industrial enterprises hence making training
more practical. The quality of training would be further enhanced by funds
provided under the project for consumable training materials to foster prac-
tical rather than theoretical instruction; project financing of incremental
staff salaries would also assist in ensuring that sufficient instructors of
requisite quality are trained and employed. The project would institute a
shorter, six-month modular-type course, a system which is both cost effective
and practical in Bangladesh. The proposed coordination of institutional train-
ing (TTC) with in-plant schemes would reinforce this practical orientation.



- 22 -
61.       The project would also have significant institutional benefits.
The creation of the National Council for Skill Development and Training with
its Secretariat would help ensure national coordination and avoid duplication
of programs, thereby enabling a more efficient use of resources. It is
expected also to assist Bangladesh's planning capability, foster standard-
ization of qualifications throughout the system, and promote the evaluation
of vocational training. The project would benefit vocational education in
general by strengthening training institutions, mainly by assisting the
Directorate of Training Operations to strengthen its headquarters and regional
staffs in the supervision and administration of TTCs.
62.       Although an implementation schedule has been discussed and accepted
by the Government, experience has shown that implementation usually takes
longer than planned when ministries and agencies are involved in their first
Bank project. Therefore, intensive supervision and training of project staff
will be needed to assist the Bureau of Manpower, Employment and Training in
implementing the project. Problems have also been anticipated in the recruit-
ment and retention of qualified instructors, and staff of the Secretariat of
the NCSDT. For instructors, recent salary increases over 30% plus the provi-
sion of housing for instructors at all TTCs should attract suitably qualified
personnel from industry, but alternative employment opportunities still exist
in the Middle East. The appointment of suitably qualified staff would there-
fore be closely supervised and remedial action (e.g., increasing the output
from instructor training programs) recommended should shortages develop.
A further risk is that the Government might not provide sufficient funds for
training materials after the project is completed, particularly if the short-
age of resources remains critical. However, it is believed that the benefits
realized through increased domestic industrial production and workers' remit-
tances from abroad would be sufficient to motivate the Government to continue
to allocate adequate funds to the project facilities to enable them to operate
effectively.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
63.        The draft Development Credit Agreement between the People's
Republic of Bangladesh and the Association and the Recommendation of the
Committee provided for in Article V, Section 1 (d) of the Articles of
Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
64.        Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. Additional conditions of effectiveness include (a) the conclu-
sion of agreements, on terms and conditions mutually agreed between the
Government and IDA, for the provision of experts and fellowships under the
project (para 52); (b) the appointment of architectural consultants to provide
design and supervision services (para 53), (c) the establishment and initial
funding of the revolving fund (para. 51), and (d) approval of the Project
Proforma (para. 57).



- 23 -
65.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
66.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
May 10, 1979                                              by I.P.M. Cargill



- 24 -
ANNEX _
TABLE 3A
BANGLADESR - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
BARGLADES                                                 /Ia
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. IN.)                                                     - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
TOTAL             144.0                                                      SAME        SAME      NEXT HIGHER
AGRICULTURAL      101.1                                  MOST RECENT      GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME         INCOME
1960  Lb    1970 Lb ESTIMATE lb        REGION /c   GROUP /d    GROUP /e
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                    40.0         60.0       90.0            167.4       182.9        432.3
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)          ..           ..      28.0              65.7       88.9        251.7
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
TOTAL POPULATION, KID-YEAR
(MILLIONS)                          53.9        70.8       82.7
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL)  4.8            6.4        9.2             12.8        15.0         24.2
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. EM.                        374.0        492.0     574.0              85.2       46.8         42.7
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    566.0          730.0     818.0             322.6      254.1         95.0
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                           44.3         46.4      46.2              44.0       43.6         44.9
15-64 YRS.                           52.5        51.0       51.1             52.9        53.3         52.8
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                     3.2          2.6       2.6               2.9         2.9          3.0
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                2.7          2.8        2.1 /f           2.2         2.4          2.7
URBAN                                             6.2        7.4              4.2         4.0          8.8
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       49.8         50.3       49.5             45.1        44.3         42.2
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER TBOUSAND)       27.2         22.9       28.1             17.3        19.7         12.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                3.5          3.1         ..              3.2         2.9          3.2
F.AMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)         ..        345.6     655.1
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..             ..       4.7              13.7        14.6        14.2
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1970-100)              106.2        100.0      93.7              95.6        96.4        104.3
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                     89.0 LI      89.0      93.0              91.1        92.3        99.5
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)            42.6 I         *-       58.5             49.6        50.0        56.8
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE          9.2  a        ..       8.0              12.6        13.9         17.5
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE         ..           ..         ..               ..          ..          7.5
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    38.7           43.3       45.0             43.1        45.8         53.3
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                               ..           ..      140.0             99.5       102.7         82.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 '-         45.0       56.0             30.0        26.4         31.1
URBAN                                 '-         13.0       22.0             66.3        63.5         68.5
RURAL                                 *'         47.0      61.0              17.2        14.1         18.2
ACCESS T0 EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 *'          6.0        5.0             15.7        16.1         37.5
URBAN                                 ..           ..       40.0             66.9        65.9         69.5
RURAL                                 ..           ..         ..              2.5         3.4         25.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN           10000.0 /h   7600.0/h 11000.0             8830.8    13432.7        9359.2
POPULATION PER NURSINC PERSON   110000.0 /h  72030.0/h 56070.0               8479.3      6983.3       2762.5
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            11000.0 /1   8120.0 /i 5200.0             1624.5      1157.6        786.5
URBAN                                 ..           ..         ..               ..       183.3        278.4
RURAL                                 ..           ..         ..               ..      1348.8       1358.4
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED              ..          ..         ..               ..        19.S         19.2
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                 ..           ..         ..               ..         5.2
URBAN                                 ..           ..         ..               ..         4.8
RURAL                                 ..           ..         ..               ..         5.3
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                 ..           ..         ..
URBAN                                 ..           ..         ..               ..         1.8          2.3
RURAL                                 ..           ..         ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                 ..           ..         ..                ..       25.9         28.3
URBAN                                            3.0 ..       .
RURAL                                  ..          ..         ..                ..        8.7         10.3



- 25 -                                               ANNEX I
TABLE 3A
BANGLADESH - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJISTED AVERAGES
BANGLADESH                                              /a
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
SAME        SAME     NEXT HIGHER
MOST RECENT     GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME        INCOME
1960 Lb     1970 Lb ESTIMATE /b       REGION /c   GROUP /d    GROUP /e
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 47.0        61.0       73.0            59.1        62.9        75.8
FFHALE               26.0         42.0      51.0             38.4       45.9         67.9
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  8.0        19.0       25.0            19.9        14.4        17.7
FEMALE                1.0          8.0      11.0              9.9        8.8         12.9
VOCATIONAL (PERCENT OP SEGONDAN Y)  1.0         1.0         ..              1.5        6.6         7.4
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                              ..        49.0       50.0            38.2        38.5        34.3
SECONDARY                            ,.        26.0       24.0            23.5        19.8        23.5
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        21.6           ..      23.0             35.6       36.7        63.7
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           ..         0.4        0.4 fL          2.2         3.1         7.2
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           ..         6.0         ..            14.9        31.1        71.1
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           ..           ..        ..              ..         2.8         14.1
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                    ..           ..       5.0              6.4        6.0         16.3
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..            ..        ..              ..         1.4          1.6
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    19400.0      24500.0   26200.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   15.2        16.5       17.0            21.3        24.2        28.0
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              87.0        86.0       78.0            62.8        60.7        54.1
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  3.3         3.5
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                36.0        34.6       34.4             35.8       39.8         37.8
MALE                                 58.7         55.8      55.3             52.4       53.3         50.3
FEHALE                               11.4        11.8       12.1             15.6       19.6         20.9
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.3          1.4       1.4              1.3        1.3          1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF NOUSEHOLDS   18.3 /k       16.7 11      .             18.6       20.3         19.5
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  44.5 /k      42.3 L       ..            42.8        45.1        48.9
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    6.9 1k       7.9 L       .               7.3        5.7          5.9
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   17.9 A       19.6 L       ..             19.3       16.8         15.7
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE 'POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..     110.0            80.2        88.5        155.9
RURAL                                ..           ..      90.0            67.2        71.9        97.9
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..        ..              ..       100.8        143.7
RURAL                                ..           ..      29.0             39.8       42.0         87.3
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW POVERTY
INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..           ..      61.0             50.3       46.0         22.9
RURAL                                ..           ..      70.0             44.6       48.0         36.7
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a    The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group.  Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1973 and 1977.
/c    South Asia;  /d  Low Income ($280 or less per capita 1976);  /e  Lower Middle Incocme ($281-550 per capita,
1976); /f The 1970-75 growth rate is abnormally low due to the effects of the war of independence and
the mass population movement across the borders during that period. Presently, the average population
growth rate is estimsted at 2.82 per annum; /i Av. 1961-65; /h Registered, not all practicing in the
country; /i Govt. establishments only; /i 1972; /k 1963-64; /1 1966-67.
September, 1978



- 26 -
DEFINITIO6S OF SOCIAL INDICATORS                                                       Page 3
N2ta The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme values of the indicator and the meot
populated country in each group.  Coverage of countries among the indicators depends on availability of date and is not uniform.  Due to lack of date,
group averages for Capital Surplus Oil Exportere sod indicators of access to water and axerete disposal, housing, income distribution and poverty are
simple population-weighted geometric means without the exclusion of extreme valus,
LASD AREA (thousand sq. kb)                                                               Population per hospital bed - total, urban. and rural - Population (total,
Total - Total surface area comprising land area and inland waters,                          urban, and rural) divided by their respective number of hospital beds
Agricuitura) - Most recent estimate of agricultural area used temporarLly                   available in public and private general end specialized hospital and re-
or permanently for crops, pastures, market and kitchen gardens or to                     habilitation centers.  Hospitals are establishments permanently staffed by
lie follow.                                                                              at least one physician.  Establishments providing principally custodial
care are not  included.  Rural hospitals, however, include health and aedi-
ANP PeR CAPITA (US$) - GNP per capita estimtes at current market prices,                     cal centers not permanently staffed by a physician (but by a medical Cr
calculated by sane conversion method as World Bank Atlas (1975-77 basis);                sistant, nurse, midwife, etc.) which offer in-patient accomodation and
1960, 1970, and 1977 data,                                                               provide a limited range of medical facilities.
Admissions Per hospital bed - Total number of admissions to or discharges
etERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA - Annual consumption of commercial energy                      from hospitals divided by the number of beds.
(oual and lignite, petroleum, natural gas and hydro-, nuclear and geo-
thermal electricity) in kilograms of coal equivalent per capita.                     HOUSING
Average eie of household (persons oer household) - total, urban, and rural-
POPULATICN AND VITAL STATISTICS                                                              A household consists of a group of individuals who share living quarters
Total pc 8ulation. mid-year (millions) - As of July 1; if not available,                    end their -in meals.  A boarder or lodger may or my not be included in
overage of two end-year estirates; 1960, 1970, and 1977 data,                            the household for statistical purpoes.   Statistical definitions of house-
Urbao  population (Parcent of total) - Ratio of urban to total popula-                     hold vary.
tion; different definitions of urban areas my affect comparability                     Average number of persons Per room - total, urban, and rural - Average num-
of data among countries,                                                                 ber of persons per room in all, urban, and rural occupied convenrional
Populatoc-  density                                                                        dwellings, respectively.  Dwellings exclude non-permanent structures and
Per  sq. km. - Mid-year population per square kilometer (100 hectarsa                     unoccupied parts.
uf total are.                                                                          Access to electricity (percent of dwellings) - total, urban, and rural -
Per up  in  agricolturo land - Computed ma  above for agricultural land                   Conventional dwellings with electricity in living quarters as percentage
only                                                                                     of total, urban, and rural dwellings respectively.
Population age structure (Percent) - Children (0-14 years), working-age
(15-64 ynars), and retired (65 years and over) as percentages of mid-                EDUCATION
your population.                                                                      Adlusted enrollment ratios
Population growth rate (percent) - total, and urban - Compound annual                    Primary school - total, and female - Total and female enrollment of all ages
growth rates of total and urban mid-year populations for 1950-60,                        at the primary lewel as percentages of respectively primary school-age
1960-70, and 1970-75.                                                                    populations; normally includes children aged 6-11 years but adjusted for
Crude birth rate (per thousand) - Annual live births per thousand of                        different lengths of primary education; for countries with universal edu-
old-your population; ten-year arithmetic averages ending in 1960 and                     cation enrollment may exceed 100 percant since some pupils are below or
1970 and five-year average ending in 1975 for most recent estimate,                      above the official school age.
Crude death rcte (per thousand) - Annual deaths per thousand of mid-                     Secondary school - total,  nd female - Computed as above; secondary educe-
Year population; ton-year arithmetic averages ending in 1960 and 1970                    tion requires at least four years of approved primary instruction; pro-
and five-year average ending in 1975 for mast receot estimate.                           vides general vocatioml, or teacher training instructions for pupils
Grons reproduction rate - Average number of daughters a woman will bear                     usually of 12 to 17 years of age; correspondence courses are generally
in her nornal ouproductive period if she experiences present age-                        excluded.
specific fertility rates; usually five-year averages ending in 1960,                   Vocatiomal enrollment (percent of secondary) - Vocational institutions in-
1970, snd 1975.                                                                          elude technical, industrial, or other programs which operate independently
Pancly planning - acceptors, annual (thousands) - Annual number of                         or as departments of secondary institutions.
acceptors of birth-control devices under auspices of national family                  Pupil-teacher ratio - primary, and secondary - Total students enrolled in
plannng program.                                                                         primary and secondary levels divided by numbers of teachers in the corre-
unily planning - users (parcent of married woaen) - Peroentage of                          spending levels.
narriod woman of child-bearing age (15-44 years) who use birth-control                Adult literacy rate (percent) - Literate adults (able to read and write) as
devices to all married women in same age group.                                          a percentage of total adult population aged 15 years and over.
FOOD AND NUTRITION                                                                      CONSVMPTION
Indes of food production per capita (1970-100) - Index number of per                    Passenger cars (per thousend population) - Passenger care comprise motor cars
capita annual production of all food commdities,                                       seating less than eight persons; excludes ambulances, hearses and military
Per capita supply of calories (percent of requiremants) - Computed from                  vehicles.
energy equivalent of net food supplies available in country per capita                Radio receivers (aer thousand population) - All types of receivers for radio
per day.  Available supplies comprise domestic production, imports less                broadcasts to general public per thousand of population; excludes unlicensed
sporce,  and changes in stook.  Net supplies asolude animal feed, seeds,               receivers in countries and in years when registration of radio sets wao  is
quantities used in food processing, and losses in distribution.  Re-                   effect; data for recent years may not be comparable since most countries
quirenents were estimated by PAO based on physiological needs for nor-                 abolished licensing.
vol activity and health considering envirormartal temperature, body                   TV receivers (per thousand population) - TV receivers for broadcast to general
weights, age and sex distributions of population, and allowing 10 per-                   public per thousand population; excludes unlicensed TV receivers in coun-
uent for waste at housebold leveol                                                       cries and in years when registration of TV sets was in effect.
Per capita supply of protedin (ara  per day) - Protein content of per                   Newspaper circulation  (per thousand population) - Shows the average circlo-
capita net supply of food per day.  Net supply of food is defined as                      ion of "daily general interest newspaper", defined as a periodical publi-
above.  Requiremeneo for all countries established by USDA provide for                   cation devoted primarily to recording general news.  It is considered to
o mn.unr      allowance of 60 grams of total protein per day and 20 grams                be "daily" if it appears at least four times a  eeh.
of animal and pulse protein, of which 10 grams should be animal protein.              Cinema annual attendance per capita per year - Based on the number of tickets
These standards are lower than those of 75 grams of total protein ani                    sold during the year, including admissions to drive-in cinemas and mobile
23 grams of animal protein as an average for the world, proposed by                      units.
FAP is the Third World Pood Survey.
Per capita protein supply from animal and pulse - Protein supply of food               EMPLOYMENT
derived iron animals and pulses in gr-as per day.                                     Total labor force (thousands) - Economically active persons, including armed
Child (ages 1-4)  .ortality rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths per thous-                  forces and unemployed but excluding housewives, students, etc.   Defini-
and in age group 1-4 years, to children in this age group.                               tions in various countries are not comparable.
Female (percent) - Female labor force  se percentage of total labor force.
HEALTH                                                                                   Agriculture (percent) - Labor force in farming, forestry, hunting and fishing
Life enpectancv at birth (years) - Average number of years of life                          as percentage of total labor force.
ronuin-g at birth; usually fie-year averages ending in 1960, 1970,                   Industry (percent) - Labor force in mining, construction, manufacturing and
and 1975.                                                                                electricity, water and gas as percentage of total labor force.
Infant mortality rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths of infants under                   Participation rate (percent) - total, male, and feamle - Total, male, and
one year of age per thousand live birhts.                                                 'emale labor force as percentages of their respective populations.
Access to s-fe water (percent of poPulation) - total, urban  and rural -                    These are mLO's adjusted participation rates reflecting  pge-oem
Number of people (total, urb-n, and rural) with reasonable access to                      structure of the pepulatino. and long time trend.
safe .ater supply (includes treated surface waters or matreated but                   fromomic dependency ratio - Ratio of population  nder I) and 65 and opec to
uncontaoinated water such as that from protected boreholes, springs,                      the labor force in age group of l5-64 years.
and sanitary wells) as percentages of their respective populations.
In an urban area a public fountain or standpost located not more                     INCOME DISTRIBUTION
then  200 matoso fto.  a house may be considered as being within rea-                 Percentage of private income (both in cash and kind) received by richest 5
sonable access of that house.  In rural areas reasonable access would                     percent  richest 20 percent, poorest 20 percent, and poorest 40 percent
imply that the housewife or members of the household do net have to                       of households.
spend a disproportionate part of the day in fetching the family's
water needs.                                                                         POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
Access to excreta disposal (percent of population) - total, urban, and                   Estimated absolute poverty income level (US$ per capita) - urban and rural -
rural - Nuaber of paupla (total  urban, and rural) served by mac.ats                        Absolute poverty income level is that income level below which a minimal
disposal as percentages of their respective populations.  Excrete                         nutritionally adequate diet plus essential non-food requirements is not
disposal may include the collection and disposal, with or without                         affordable.
treatment,  of huban surreta and waste-water by water-borne systems                   Eftimated relative poverty Income level (US$ per capita) - urban and rural -
r the use of pit privies and similar installations.                                      Relative poverty ineoe level is that income level less than one-third
-opultion per physician - Population divided by number of practicing                        per capita personal income of the country.
physicians qualified from  a medical school at university level.                       Etimated paputan  below poverty Incom  level (oecent) - urban end rural
Population per nursing person - Population divided by number of                             Percent of population (urban and rural) who are either "absolute poor" or
practicing male and female graduate nurses, practical nurses, and                         "relative poor" whichever is greater.
vssistant nurses.
Efocomic and Social Date Division
Economic Analysis and Projections Department



- 27 -                                                                ANNEX I.
ECONOMICO MEED9ET DATA
(Amaounts in milliPonTs oyf U.S. dollars)
Actual                         Estimated           1960-   1965-    1973-            1976917v.          S~77
Av. 19)67-69  i972/73  1775         1976/77           1977/78           1965     1970      1978            196-6  197/5  07
'.'133AL ACCOU1NTS                                                                                              __
In Constant 1972-1973 Prices & Exchange Rates               n;aoAnnual Growth Rates                As Percent ofGU
rot,S LkosiseLic Prodact          6UlC2- -3-DTT-6,514  Y            ,55               7,833-            47       J           .            98.5   101.8   101.1
IP  from. 'terms of Trsde ()         89          -      -117        -149                -88                                                1.5    -1.8    -1.1
e,tuic Insane              6,101    583-3    6,-397         7,107              j7745             5.6      2.5       5.8           100.0   100.0   100.0
sps'rn (inot. NFrS)                 879        747       703         506                 791           20.6      6.8        0.7           14.4    11.0    10.2
esposts   (imprt capacity)  598        369       197         24~3                315           12.3   -14.6        -3.2             9.8      3.1      4.1
I-'so,rce Gap                        281       378        506         263               TW6                                                 -4.6     7.       6.1
J'nsumcption Expenditures           5,668    5,817    6,404         6,764               7,521             5.7      3.6       5.2            92.9   100.1    97.1
-.nvstment   1  (ic]l. stocks)    714           394       499          660                700            13.3      8.8      12.2            12.9      7.8      9.0
k, ceztic Savings                    433         16        -6         343                 M2             4.3    10.0        72.0             6.8    -0.1       2.9
.Nati-sis  Savings                    416        32         10         378                279             8.7    20.5       56.3             7.1      0.2       3.6
eIERCIJANDISE TRADE                            Annual Data at Current Prices                                                                As Percent of Total
Usrorts
Capital goods                        .        100       135          227                3168.                             22.9               .     16.8    23.5
Tintermediate goods (acLfuels)       .        176       386          270                459                       .       21.9              .      30.4    34. 1
is~els and related materials
of which;  Petroleum               ..        23       155          141                166              .        ..      48.5              ..     10.0    12.5
Consumption goods                    ..       428       726          227                406~                      . .     rZA 4                    42.8     3o. 1
total Merch. TTmports Ceif)         547     -7 27    1 ,40 2        865               1,349                               12.2                    100.0   100.0
Elcoorts
"srimary products (mmcl. fuels)      .        145       119         220                 203                       .        7.0              .      40.9    40.8
Thjel s and related materials
of which: Petroleum
,Yanufactured goods                  .        195       239          240                294..                      .       8.5              .      59.1    59.2
Total Merch, Exports (fob)          48I     -3TO        358        7609                                                    7.9                    100.0   100.0
Touarism wsid Border TrauLe
rschacndise Trade Indices                       Average 1972-73   130
Paport Price~ Index              --61         100       133 -       118                 137..                     .        6.5
imoprt Price Index                  52       100        215         189                180..                      .       12.5
onsof Trade Index               118       100        62           62                 76..                      .      -5.6
Exports Volume Index               148       100         80         115                107..                      .        1.5
%ALUS; ADDED BY SECTOR               As coal rata so 1972-73 :Prise; and Exchange Pates    -          Žirage Annual arowth Rates            A,, Percent of Total
Agriculture                      3,542    3,403    3,712          4,020              4,318..                      .        4.8            59         59       57
industry and Mininig               420       412       466          582                642              .        ..       9.2              7          7        8
Service                 ~~~~~2,050    1,848    2.146     2,442               2.645                                7.4             34        34        35
Total                            6,012    5,663    6,324          7,044              7,605                                6.1            100        100      100
PURlItC FINAN4CE                                                                                                                              As Percent of ,r-
(cen,tr ~Government)
Current Receipts                   317       280        469         563                665               .        ..     34.2            5.3        7.2      8.5
Current Expenditures               365       364       419          464                553              .         ..     16.8            6.1        6.4     -7.1
Busdgetary Savings                 -48       -84         50          9912-0.8                                                                      0.8       1.4
Othoer Public Sector                 .         .         .            ..                                 .        .
PubIlic Sector Investment          421       239        248         516                514              .         ..     10.3            7.0        3.8      8.
us $ million Lji
CURRENT EXPENDITIURE DETAILS                              Actual                  Estimated       DETAIL 0ON                            At Av.  1977/78  P and ER
As % Total Current Expend.)               1969/70 1972/73 1974/75 1976/77         1977/78       PUBLIC SF1115                        Nwo-Year Plan   7, of Total
Education                                    .        -15.5  'I9T5    12-.4         13.0        IlR'VESTMENT PROGRAM                      (1978/79 - 1979/80)
Otier Social Services                       .         4.5      3.6      4.2          4.9        iScial Sectors                               287        13.2
Agsiculture  and                                                                                Agriculture                                  600        27.6
Other Economic Services                    .         5.0    12.5       6.6         7.0        industry and MI,ning                         380         17.5
Admi,nistration and Defense                  ..      70.4    57.1    61.5           61.2        Power                                        314         14.4
Other                                       .         4.6    12.3    15.3           13.9        Iranspart and commeunicatiors,               387        17.8
Total Current Expendituires                         100.0   10 0. 0   -100.0       100.0        Other                                        206         9.5
______________________________________________________________________ Total Expenditures                           2,174        100.0
SELECTED INDICATORS                                   1960-      1965-        1973-               FINANCING
(Calculated from 3-year- averaged data)               1965       1970         1976
Average ICOR                                             .        TS-7fl      0.89                    Putic 7.-star Savings                   557         25.6
Import Elasticity                                        ..       1.29        1.11                   Pragram aid counoterpart                  838        38.6
Marginal Domestic Savings Rate                           ..      0.22         0.05                   Foreign Project Aid                       605        27.8
Marginal National Savinigs Rate                          .       0.35         0.05                   Oflsher (incl. dom. borrowing)            174         8.0
Total Fintancing                      2,174        100.0
LABOR PORCE AND                                   Total Labor Farce                                     Value Added Per Worker (1972- 73   Prices & Exc. Rates)
OUTPUT PER WORKER                   In Millions          % of Total            19 61 -73          In US.Dollars         Percent of Aven ge          19 70 -73
19 60/61    19 7 ZL319 60/61  1972/73  Growth Rate              19 69/70   19 72/73    19 69/70   19 72/73   Growth Rate
Agriculture                         16.1         20.5      85        78           2.0                ..         166          ..76
Ind:ustry                            1.0          1.8       5         7          5.0                 ..         229           .         105
Der-vice                             18           3.9      10        15           6.7                ..         484          .           2
Total                   18.9        2~~~~~~~~~6.2    100  T00        2.8               248          217        100          10-0         -4.9
not applicable         - nil or negligible
not available         -  less than half the smallest unit shown
Rote: Figures are on fiscal year basis (JulY I-Juae aOb Oats prior to 1972/73 pertain to erstwhile East Pakistan.
/I Plan targets.



ANNEX I
-28 -
86162103 OF P1000870 BMNAL ASSIdSiNE AND8 DEBT
lensonte irs ml'ir s of 13.S. do7.1ars at correct petees)
Aetal.                          Esimoated      Prljjctog        Averass annua  Grvl,O
7S69/7.9     7S7Z173       bORn1/t      ZS1!37'    Reti. ted        773d1977/7                 1974 - 1978
S9(2  BALANCE OF F-hYINSS
EVort. (ioel. NPS)                            515           369           358           329            588             648                       13.7
80port4.(incl. NFS)                          -639         -747         -1,402          -957        -1,427          -1,779                         9.8
ReAS486e  uSsnce (I-N)                       -124         -378         -1,044          -428                        -1                             7.4
Intcre-t (net)                I
Direct 7neet-ent Thele,    t8
Wdreers' Raeittaoee           I                 ..           45              7           66             83              92                           -
Bari-te cnDCur rTen t   t                                 -
Private Strcet Devestprlot                                  482            397          229            396             400                       13.6
Of ricial Capital doonto                       .
Bobbie M&iT L..n
Publi -nroans                                             76            527           273           411             695                         5.2
-rlv,wntn                                    ,,                          -25          -16            -51             -54                           -
-RCtp3S7nte.                                                79           3 57          73t7    6 4  4.8l
other 1861T Leans
Diboeeot.                                                 ..
-R6D=89t._
Net Disboeseaeots                              .
C pital Tea   ti2                                                         33los net      44             1              -33                                   Actual Ltnd Period                    Estbeutel
Chsog  In L. tIoSes   -    aec)                 .           -20          -196           -60             24              23                           ________________
Cr000 Reserves (end peried)                     .           107           263           293            269          EB i                             19/2/13   1914/-5   1975/76   b/19777   1977/76
_47ANt DiRT 344VIC01
Ptblie Debt Out. & lleb-red          228       1,366      1,812      2,065        2,556
GRANf A9D 10AN  C080IIT87l5TS
Officis  Scenic & Grant-like                                514           368           338            452           lotoreet no  Bublie Debt             -          10         21          25          27
topayre<nte on. P,blie Debt          -          25         78          17          51
Ocblbe 0,LT Lcons                                                                                                    Total Public Debt Seric                         3          99          42          78
irB5                                         ..             -             -             -              -           Ieth-  Debt Senic0 (net)
rDA                                                       68            150            50           211           rntal Debt Service (net)
t-ier   oIreilotrei                                        11            87            84             74
t     -vref,ents                             ..          204            628           200           376     Burden on. Eort S_rinej ,          )
soppliers                                    ..            55            17             2
Fi_Co'     i__ltotoine ....-                                                            5             13          Poblic Debt Sernice                           a.0        22.4         7.9         13.7
Bends                                        ..-                                                                  Total Debt Service
pbl   LoTsD, t.e.-. ._t                                                                                                                                 .t  L
Total Public M9LT Loans                         ..          338           932           341            684                 Ternc   ot lice.
Ave-ge  Te,e of Pbotl   Debt
Actual Debt  ttitttediog en rone 30, t978                              I:t. no r Prior Year DO4D                     2.0          1.5        1.4          1.3
SITERBTAL D343                                      Di0b-eed.d                                                                     t Percent  bmoot. uo 0 Price Yver D1&D   5.0   5.7        0.9          2.5
.3ecrl  3ank,
7DA                                                     554                         21.7                          TBRI Debt Put. & Dibersed
Other !Mltilbtercl                                        64                         2.5                                an r     Public Dlbt O&D           -       4.0         3.0         2.7          2.2
Gonoeroneeno                                           1,746                        68.4                                uc 0 Public Dsbt service           -         -         1.6         7.5         4.4
Tnnnlieno                                                111                         4.3
itbenoiol rn1titntione                                   26                         1.0                          'DA Debt Cat.& Disboreed
3onds                                                                                   -                             as     Public Debt O&D            7.1       18.7        21.0        22.7        21,7
Publo  ebts tbn.e                                          ^                                                                     i an   'Public Debt Seee-oe  -    2.3         2.0         7.5         4.9
Tota7 Publib  M&LT Debt                                2155                         DO0.O
Other MhL,T Debto
Sh-rt-ten Debt (dieb. only)
.  net applicable                                                         e   ist.f vetimato
net uvti  bl.e                                                         -  .il yr negligible
..  net  -vilable  eparatly                                                --   less  thon half  the
btt ircluded ib tetal                                                     smallest u-it shebn
Nvenb-e 1979



- 29 -
ANNEX II
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BANGLADESH
A.   STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of March 31, 1979)
US$ Million
Anount
(net of cancellations
Loan or                                                     and exchange adjustments)
Credit                                                                         Un-
Number  Year   Borrower            Purpose                  Bank      IDA   disbursed
One loan and eight credits fully disbursed                  54.9    329.1        -
339    1972   Bangladesh   Cyclone Area Reconstruc-
tion (replaces Credit
No. 228-PAK of 1971)                  25.0       2.7
340    1972   Bangladesh   Chandpur Irrigation II
(replaces Credit No.
184-PAK of 1970)                      13.0       1.1
341    1972   Bangladesh   Tubewells (replaces
Credit No. 208-PAK
of 1970)                              14.0       2.0
343    1972   Bangladesh   Telecommunications (re-
places part of Credit
No. 145-PAK of 1969)                   7.3        .3
367    1973   Bangladesh   Chittagong Water Supply
(replaces Credit No.
42-PAK of 1963)                        7.0        .1
368    1973   Bangladesh   Dacca Water Supply and
Sewerage (replaces
Credit No. 41-PAK of
1963)                                 13.2        /b
407    1973   Bangladesh   Education (replaces
Credit Nos. 49-PAK
and 87-PAK of 1964 and
1966)                                 21.0       4.8
408    1973   Bangladesh   Highways (replaces Credit
No. 53-PAK of 1964)                   25.0       5.7
409    1973   Bangladesh   Technical Assistance                        4.0       .3
410    1973   Bangladesh   Cereal Seeds                                7.5      5.2
424    1973   Bangladesh   Inland Water Transport
Rehabilitation                         8.7       1.1
487    1974   Bangladesh   Second Telecommunications                 20.0      13.1
527    1975   Bangladesh   Ashuganj Fertilizer                       33.0       8.3
533    1975   Bangladesh   Population                                 15.0     11.7
542    1975   Bangladesh   Barisal Irrigation                         27.0     23.7



- 30 -
ANNEX II
A.   Bank Loans and IDA Credits to Bangladesh (Cont'd)
US$ Million
Amount
(net of cancellations
Loan or                                                     and exchange adjustments)
Credit                                                                         Un-
Number  Year   Borrower            Purpose                  Bank     IDA   disbursed
605    1976   Bangladesh   Karnafuli Irrigation                      22.0      14.9
621    1976   Bangladesh   Agricultural and Rural Training            12.0     10.5
622    1976   Bangladesh   Technical Assistance II                     7.5      6.2
631    1976   Bangladesh   Rural Development                         16.0      14.6
632    1976   Bangladesh   Bangladesh Shilpa Bank                    25.0      19.0
676    1977   Bangladesh   Imports Program V                         75.0       2.8
724    1977   Bangladesh   Shallow Tubewells                          16.0     16.0
725    1977   Bangladesh   Muhuri Irrigation                         21.0      20.1
729    1977   Bangladesh   Extension and Research                    10.0       9.9
735    1977   Bangladesh   Inland Water Transport II                  5.0       4.4
752    1977   Bangladesh   Imports Program VI                        75.0      21.7
765    1978   Bangladesh   Jute                                      21.0      19.6
787    1978   Bangladesh   Foodgrain Storage II                      25.0      25.0
825    1978   Bangladesh   Small Scale Industry II                     7.0      7.0
828    1978   Bangladesh   Agricultural Research                       6.0      6.0
864    1978   Bangladesh   Drainage and Flood Control                 19.0     19.0 /a
866    1978   Bangladesh   Imports Program VII                       75.0      68.2
872    1978   Bangladesh   Technical Assistance III                   10.0     10.0
890    1979   Bangladesh   Oxbow Lakes Fisheries                      6.0       6.0 /a
Total,                                                      54.9  1,023.3    390.7
of which has been repaid                                   0        0.4       -
Total now held by Bank and IDA                              54.9  1,022.9
Total undisbursed                                            0      390.7    390.7
/a   Not effective.
/b    Balance of $9,224.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Multi-Sector Project
Cr. No. 339    Cyclone Area Reconstruction Project:  US$25.0 Million Credit
of October 18, 1972; Effective Date: January 17, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979
After a very difficult start, the project is expected to be com-
pleted by about 1979, about three and a half years behind schedule. Parts A,
F, and G (Inland Water Transport, Coastal Fisheries, and Cyclone Warning
System) have been completed for some time. Parts D and E (Primary and Feeder
Roads) have been substantially completed except before the remainder of the
road can be constructed. Work on the completion of Part B and C (Telecommuni-
cations and Cyclone Shelters) appears to be proceeding satisfactorily although
we have had reports that the Project Director did not get as much allocated
in the budget for the cyclone shelters as he requested.
Agricultural Projects
Cr. No. 340    Chandpur Irrigation II Project:  US$13.0 Million Credit of
October 18, 1972; Effective Date: January 17, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979
The project is expected to be completed by late 1979, three years
behind schedule. Delays have been due to major flooding, labor problems,
shortages of materials, equipment breakdowns and rebuilding the embankment
as a result of rapid river erosion during the construction phase. While
problems remain, substantial progress has been made both in physical construc-
tion and agricultural development. The main regulator is operational and major
agricultural development is about to commence.
Cr. No. 341    Tubewells Project; US$14.0 Million Credit of
November 6, 1972; Effective Date: January 13, 1973;
Closing Date: September 28, 1979
Because of a slow start, project implementation is about 18 months
behind schedule. Nearly 3000 wells have now been drilled, and verticality
problems have already been corrected by the contractors. Pumphouse construc-
tion and engine/pump installation is proceeding satisfactorily. Agricultural
development is about to commence on 2400 wells in the winter 1978/1979.
Project audit for 1975/1976 has been received while audit for 1976/1977 is
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
being awaited. Arrangements for extending consultant's services have been
agreed.  A request is currently under consideration for an extension o. the
closing date to permit the financing of, inter alia, distribution channels
in order to increase the effectiveness of the project. Pending the outcome
of this review, the Closing Date has been initially extended to 9/28/79.
Cr. No. 410    Cereal Seeds Project; US$7.5 Million Credit of June 29, 1973;
Effective Date:  January 30, 1974; Closing Date:  December 31,
1979
There has been an improving trend in project implementation during
the past two years. Seed sales and quality are good. Contract growers'
interest is high. Staff morale has also improved considerably. Civil works
are underway but are being delayed by shortages of local funds. Machinery
for seed processing has been ordered. Tender documents for the final list
of machinery and equipment are undergoing final revision after IDA comments.
Staff housing is about 80% complete. On the other hand, vacancies still exist
in the staff to supervise contract growers. With fifteen trainees presently
being trained, most of the planned overseas staff training programs are well
underway.
Cr. No. 542    Barisal Irrigation Project; US$27 Million of April 29, 1975;
Effective Date: February 24, 1976; Closing Date: Decem-
ber 31, 1980
Project civil works continue to make good progress and is expected
to be completed on schedule. The problems delaying procurement of 60 primary
and 2,500 secondary pumps have been resolved and it is expected that some 25
primary pumps will be installed during the current boro season. A target
area of 24,000 acres of irrigation for the present dry season using some
608 secondary pumps is to be attempted.
Cr. No. 605    Karnafuli Irrigation Project; US$22 Million of January 28, 1976;
Effective Date: February 24, 1976; Closing Date: December 31,
1980
The project had been behind schedule due to initial delays in
hiring project consultants. The consultants for the irrigation portion of the
project began work in September 1976, but their effectiveness was limited by
delays in procurement of vehicles and equipment and in the assignment of local
consultants to assist in the design work. After a period of good progress,
project civil works have again slowed down due to shortages of local Taka.
If adequate additional funds are alloted, the project could still be completed
on schedule.
Cr. No. 631    Rural Development Project; US$16.0 million of June 3, 1976;
Effective Date: August 3, 1976; Closing Date: December 31,
1981
The project was designed as a pilot application of the rural devel-
opment approach pioneered at the Comilla Academy in the mid-sixties. It



- 33 -
ANNEX II
aims at introducing accelerated agriculture and rural development in seven
thanas in Bogra and Mymensingh Districts. It provides financing inter alia
for rural roads, minor irrigation, buildings, storage, rural credit and
strengthening of rural cooperatives. The project became effective on
August 3, 1976. Initially, despite some teething problems, the project was
progressing satisfactorily. But by June 1977, the following weaknesses
became apparent: (i) lack of cooperation the various ministries and agencies
involved; (ii) lack of effective organization ineffective supervision of
the project by the implementing agency, the Integrated Rural Development
Program (IRDP); (iii) basic deficiencies in the cooperative system (complex
regulations and procedures); (iv) inadequate training of project personnel;
and (v) conflicting government policies in the field of rural credit. In
November/December 1977, IDA, in association with IRDP, undertook a compre-
hensive review of the project, and an Aide Memoire, setting out an action
program to overcome these problems, was presented to the Government in
December 1977.
The Government has made a concerted effort to implement the recom-
mendations of the Aide Memoire prepared in December 1977. A full-time Project
Manager has been appointed who is assisted by three assistants responsible for
credit, cooperatives and training, respectively. International recruitment
is being used to obtain for IRDP technical assistance in project management,
supervision, and monitoring. At the field, two district managers, for Bogra
and Mymensingh, have been appointed to work full time on project activities.
Budgetary and procedural changes have been introduced to enable participating
government agencies to be fully responsible for the implementation of the
projects subcomponents. This, together with a revitalized coordinating com-
mittee of Secretaries of the Ministries concerned has greatly improve coopera-
tion. Implementation of the physical aspects of the project such as rural
works is proceeding satisfactorily but project beneficiaries have, so far,
yet to receive tangible benefits in the form of farm inputs farm equipment.
A proposal has recently been approved to amend the Credit Agreement to finance
incremental fertilizer needs for the project instead of incremental credit for
fertilizer.
Cr. No. 724    Shallow Tubewells; US$16 Million of July 1, 1977; Effective
Date: December 9, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Bids for engines and pump sets for all 10,000 wells have been re-
ceived and are being reviewed by the Bangladesh Agricultural Development
Corporation's Tender Committee. A consultant for workshop management has
been hired and the preparation of tender documents for workshop tools and
machinery is at an advanced stage. Construction of 3 out of the 5 project
zonal workshops has been completed. Thana irrigation maps are yet to be
reviewed by consultants.



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Cr. No. 725    Muhuri Irrigation; US$21.0 Million of July 1, 1977; Effective
Date: January 6, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Delays occurred initially in obtaining Government approval of the
project budget, establishing the project fund, completing arrangements for
hiring the engineering consultants, and signing a contract with the Contractor
who will construct the Feni Regulator. The contractor, with the Bangladesh
Water Development Board (BWDB) approval, has signed in August 1978, a contract
with the Implementation Assistance Team to participate and assist in construc-
tion work. A BWDB engineer has been appointed as Project Manager and has set
up office in Feni township. The Contractor has started construction site
development and assembly of staff.
Cr. No. 729    Extension and Research Project; US$10 Million of July 1, 1977;
Effective Date: January 6, 1978; Closing Date: April 30, 1981
The project is making good progress since it became effective
January 6, 1978. Pre-qualification of contractors for the construction of
training unit at Bogra and Santahar has been advertised while detailed draw-
ings and cost estimates have been submitted and forwarded to IDA for review.
Procurement of essential project vehicles and equipment is progressing
satisfactorily. Suitable salary scales are now approved and DEM has been
requested to proceed immediately with filling of posts for crop production
specialists and district training officers. In the case of Project Imple-
mentation Unit/Sub-Unit (PIU/PISI), gazetted officers have been appointed
in late September 1978; selection of senior staff (Class III and IV) has
been completed but appointment awaits Government's clearance. On agricul-
tural extension, a consultant has been appointed to review unification of
extension services. Village Extension Assistants (VEAs) have already been
relieved of extension duties. The Ministry of Agricultural has also re-
quested the Planning Commission to increase the taka allocation of the
project to Taka 65 million.
Cr. No. 765    Jute Project; US$21 Million of February 8, 1978; Effective
Date:  April 14, 1978; Closing Date:  June 30, 1983
Project progress is generally satisfactory. The project organiza-
tion appears to be succeeding in generating enthusiasm among farmers and Jute
Farmers Associations are becoming effective. The value of credit in cash and
kind has increased substantially, and repayments are progressing satisfactorily.
The project technological package is reported to be signficantly increasing per
acre yields.
Cr. No. 787    Foodgrain Storage II Project; US$25 Million of April 12,
1978; Effective Date:  September 29, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
Effectiveness was delayed by almost three months due to delays in
Government approval of the project budget. However, work on site selection,



- 35 -
ANNEX II
land acquisition, and preparation of tender documents has been proceeding
satisfactorily and physical progress of the project is not expected to be
effected by this delay.
Cr. No. 828    Agricultural Research Project;  US$6 million of June 16, 1978;
Effective Date: November 15, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1974
Effectiveness was delayed by two months, due to delays in approval
of the project budget.  Meanwhile contracts with architects for design of
facilities have been signed, and technical working groups established respon-
sible for drawing up research programs in specific fields.
Cr. No. 864    Drainage and Flood Control Project:  US$19.0 million Credit
of December 22, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
This credit is not yet effective.
Cr. No. 890    Oxbow Lakes Fishery Project; US$6 million of April 3, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
This credit is not yet effective.
Industry and Imports Program Credits
Cr. No. 527    Ashuganj Fertilizer Project; US$33 Million Credit of
February 11, 1975; Effective Date: December 19, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
The project is being cofinanced by the Asian Development Bank, KfW,
and the Governments of Iran, Switzerland, UK and US, providing a total of
US$109 million equivalent in addition to the IDA credit. Site preparation
work including the necessary dredging and filling was completed on schedule.
However, based on the soil analyses undertaken by two specialist consulting
firms, further preparation of the site was undertaken to protect the plant
against earthquake risks.   Currently the project is about 32 months behind
schedule due primarily to the additional site preparation and initial slow
progress in (a) placing orders for time-critical items and (b) planning for
construction. Process engineering and procurement have progressed substan-
tially and the groject is now in the construction phase. The soil compaction
work has been completed and work is progressing on the critical compensatory
foundation works of the Project. Revised estimates indicate that due to the
need for additional site work, the delays and the currency fluctuations, costs
will be substantially higher than lender funds currently available. Arrange-
ments are being discussed among the Government and the various cofinanciers
to raise the additional funds required to complete the Project. The fertilizer
company has terminated the contract of the consultants who had been providing
management assistance, and has hired a new firm to provide assistance during
the construction phase. The company is currently negotiating arrangements for
provision of assistance during the operations phase.



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Cr. No. 632    Bangladesh Shilpa Bank Project; US$25.0 Million of May 20,
1976; Effective Date: November 8, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1981
As of February 28, 1979, Bangladesh Shilpa Bank (BSB) has sub-
mitted 96 subprojects for IDA approval. Of these, 93 have been approved and
three have been held pending clarification by BSB of queries raised during
IDA reviews. As of February 28, 1979 disbursements (including QAR's) were
US$5.2 million.
Cr. No. 676    Fifth Imports Program; US$75 Million of January 25, 1977
Effective Date: February 24, 1977; Closing Date:
March 31, 1979
As of February 28, 1979, disbursements were US$70.0 million.  The
credits Closing Date has been extended by three months to enable GOB process
reimbursement from IDA under Procedure Case I.
Cr. No. 752    Sixth Imports Program; US$75 Million of November 30, 1977;
Effective Date: January 13, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1979
As of February 28, 1979 disbursements (including QAR's) were
US$38.5 million.
Cr. No. 825    Small Scale Industry II Project; US$7 million of June 16, 1978;
Effective Date: September 15, 1978; Closing Date: March 31,
1983
Progress has started in training commercial bank staff, distributing
circulars to commercial bank branches describing project procedures, and adver-
tising the availability of funds for small industry loans. Staff of the Small
and Cottage Industries Corporation have been assigned to begin preparation of
subsector and area studies for small industry promotion.
Cr. No. 866    Seventh Imports Program:  US$75.0 million Credit of
December 22,; 1978; Effective Date: January 8, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
Education Projects
Cr. No. 407    Education Project; US$21.0 Million Credit of June 29, 1973;
Effective Date: September 27, 1973; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
Progress on the Agricultural University component of the project
is about 75% complete but 30 months behind schedule. The academic complex
facilities and staff housing are now virtually completed. About half of
the hostels will be completed in December 1979 and the remainder by June
1980. The auditorium, gympnasium and stadium are scheduled to be completed



- 37 -
ANNEX II
by October 1979, two months before the Closing Date. A number of new pro-
grams intended to improve the practical skills of students and increase
their involvement in research and extension have been introduced. Civil Works
for The Technical Education component, although 30 months behind schedule is
practically complete. Procurement of equipment is only 60% complete because
of the time-consuming procedures of the Supplies Directorate. Efforts to
revise curricula and improve quality of teaching staff are being made.
However, action has yet to be taken to complete the facilities at Joydeppur
intended to be used for the training of technical teachers. (Construction
of this facility is not part of the project).
Cr. No. 621    Agricultural and Rural Training Project; US$12.0 Million
of March 25, 1976; Effective Date: June 30, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1981
Implementation of civil works is about three months ahead of sched-
ule but has slowed recently due to shortage of local funds. Completion is
about 60% on weighted average. Tenders for instructional equipment were
invited in mid-December. Training of teachers for the Agricultural Train-
ing Institutes (ATI's) has been set back by a recent transfer of instructors
to the extension staff to benefit from a recent upgrading of positions, which
was not extended to the ATI staff. Little progress has been made on the
recruitment of technical assistance experts, the development of revised
curriculum, or the in-service training of extension staff.
Population
Cr. No. 533    Population Project:  US$15 Million Credit of February 11,
1975; Effective Date: September 25, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
The project is being cofinanced by six co-lenders providing a total
of US$25 million equivalent in addition to IDA credit. Some progress has
been made in project implementation. Tenders have been received for all
construction packages except the Family Welfare Visitors' Training School
in Khulna and Faridpur. Scrutiny of bids received for four tenders are
underway. Recruitment of staff training teams is under progress while local
consultants have started working with Project Finance Cell to strengthen
central accounting system. Government is considering implementing manage-
ment study recommendation for strengthening district level organization. Over
60 out of 90 medical doctors deputed from the Health Division of the Ministry
of Health and Family Planning to Population Division and Family Planning
Division (PCFD) have joined. Deputation of another 100 doctors is expected
shortly. On the other hand, proposals to strengthen the Building, Planning
and Design Unit (BPDU) are still pending with the Health Division while pro-
gress on service statistic system has been discouraging.



- 38 -
ANNEX II
Transport Projects
Cr. No. 408    Highways Project; US$25.0 Million of June 29, 1973;
Effective Date: September 27, 1973; Closing Date:
December 31, 1979
There are two major elements of the project which are not yet com-
pleted, these being construction of the new Roads and Highways Directorate
(RHD) headquarters building and paving of the Feni bypass. Progress on the
RHD building is satisfactory, and appropriate steps are being taken to
remedy constructional deficiencies previously noted. Progress on the Feni
bypass paving has improved, and the contractor should complete before the
closing date of the Credit on December 31, 1979.
Cr. No. 424    Inland Water Transport Rehabilitation Project; US$8.7 Million
Credit of August 10, 1973, as amended by Amending Agreement
of October 17, 1975; Original Credit Effective Date:
September 27, 1973; Supplementary Credit Effective Date:
March 19, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1979
Procurement of spare parts and equipment under the Original Credit
has been substantially completed. The two lighterage tankers provided under
the Supplementary Credit have been operating since January 1978, transfering
crude oil from the mother tanker, "Banglar Noor", to the ERL refinery at
Chittagong. However, Bangladesh Shipping Corporation (BSC) has experienced
some problems in maintaining the tankers' cargo pumps and manufacturers'
service engineers are now in Chittagong. IDA has agreed to finance under
the credit additional Technical Assistance to improve tanker operation and
maintenance. There appears to have been a significant improvement in the
oil transfer operating over the past few months.
Cr. No 735      Inland Water Transport II Project; US$5.0 Million Credit of
September 30, 1977; Effective Date: March 13, 1978;
Closing Date June 30, 1980
The Credit became effective on March 13, 1978 three and a half
months behind the original schedule. Lists of spare parts for BIWTA vessels,
navigation aids and for hydrographic equipment, and for BIWTC cargo vessels
have already been prepared and most items agreed. The selection of con-
sultants required for the execution of the project has proceeded very slowly.
However, contracts with two consulting firms have now been signed, and work on
selection of additional required consultants is underway.
Telecommunications Projects
Cr. No. 343    Telecommunications Project;  US$7.3 Million Credit of
November 15, 1972; Effective Date: January 17, 1973; Closing
Date: June 30, 1979
The Project was originally financed as part of Credit No. 145-PAK
of 1970, and goods valued at US$2.2 million had been received prior to sus-
pension of disbursements. Three of the four microwave systems have been



l t ~~~~~~~~~~S                                                          9O                   6 9-                                       91'92
BANGLADESH
VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
I  Q N  D I A                                                  PROJECT INSTITUTIONS
PROJECT INSTITUTIONS
1 NCSDT SECRETARIAT
2 MIRPURTTC
Thsk~~~~~~gosn  0 55 ~~~~~~~3  RAJSHAHI TTC
-2                                                                                                                            4  BANGLA-GERMAN TTC                                            26--
5 CHITTAGONG TTC
6 MYMENSINGH TTC
7 KHULNA TTC
E BARISALTTC
9 BOGRATTC
10 COMI LLA TTC
*    Equipment
A    Civil Works
*    Training Program  Only
I  )                                                  S/                                                     sncrsscto 
World Bankoan nsaff exclusively // t  1%\%<for   (f  /'I
juhgen coneineo the regaderats of                        <               N                                                                  C H1T  TAG :c          <    A           IJ 
22  the repovot aynosmn to o,ic it ,s05 attached.                                                                                                                       ,-             U
oacetneosuhboundaries          . she ur on5 thi mapd  :1   7                                                                               
WoddTAg.  Ban an  i         H af Iits aNyA ||eIRiW
. A            .   < r J                                                                                                                          Jhilorwp   1|;    J    i  ,_PA  b\y
do not imly on the par of: th                                                                                     so
fsgnrt of theleglstatuof                 l 2( 4 a3  
oracceptanceI of a ssh boundale.                                                                                                                                                  _ _
.___________ ____________        S S      R                 A  R        P U
I N    D    I A         <SRMA 
'-T
I 5A54K5~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
the report to which it,~~~~~~~~~~~ attached.                                                                 CHITTAG              r             \.             '1 G
The dnonuntibosused od th



