Docmet of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Rq.t No. 7238
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
RICE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 952-GUI)
May 16, 1988
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and msy be usetd by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
RICE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CR. 952-GUI)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AfDF      -    African Development Fund
BNDA      -    Banque Nationale de Developpement Agricole
(National Bank for Agricultural Development)
BSD       -    Bureau of Strategy and Development
FAC       -    Fermes Agro-Communales
(Agro-Communal Farms)
FAPA      -    Ferme Agro-Pastorale d'Arrondissement
MDR       -    Ministry of Rural Development
ONADER    -    Operation Nationale pour le Developpement de la RiziQulture
(National Rice Development Agency)
ORG       -    Operation Riz Gueckedou
(Gueckedou Rice Operation)



T* WOUD ANK                                         T
W_she~Wn. D.C. 2033
U.S.A.
0~ d OW._~
-w h^_
Nty 16, i988
MEORANDUMN TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report: Republic of Guinea
Rice Development Project (Credit 952-GUI)
Attached, for Information, is a copy of a report entitled
"Project Completion Report: Republic of Guinea - Rice Development
Project (Credit 952-GUI)" prepared by the Africa Regional Office.
Under the modified system for project performance auditing further
evaluation of this project by the Operations Evaluation Department
has not been made.
Attachment
This docunoot hu a mtrid distdbutin snd may be un by eipbst oa in the porfost
of their offici dutia Its contents may not olhfwi be disebed wbout WaN Bi uw_ona.



yO  OFICAL           ONLY
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
RTCE DEVELOPNENT PROWiCT
(CR. 952-GUI)
PROJECT COMPLETIONI REPORT
Table of Contents
rM  No.
Preface  ................       .    ..........
Basic Data Sheet ............ .. .-...-.. ..... ..... .              ii
Evaluation Sumary .{..... .   . ...        ..       ...........      iv
I.   BACKGROU CD................N D....                               1
II.  FORMITIN.....................ON....                              1
A.   Origin and Preparation ...........   ......                1
!      ~~B.   Appraslr                 a     i     sa...................  2
C.   Targets and Goals. ...... .. .................             3
III. IMPLEMETENTATIONo ...  ...................                       4
A.   Effectiveness and Start-up.oo.o.o.o.............p.         4
B.   Reviios..i.....                                            4-
C. Physical Progress                                            5
1.   The National Componentoooooooo............oo          5
2.   The Pilot Rice Operation...... .-...-......           6
Do  Reporting.;"oo.000 0..0 ..0 000.  .                         9
E.   Procurement.oo..o.o.o...    ...00..  ...............       9
F.   Project Costs........ ...............                     10
G.   Financing and Disbursement .......................        11
IV.  AGRICULTURAL INPACT.o....oooo.o.o .     .. ... . o.. .oo.. . .    13
A. Productiono..o                                      _    13
B.   Technological Change... ...........                       15
V.   FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC RESULTS. o.o..o.oooo.o.o..o ..    o      16
A.   Farmer Incomes..n....o ............. ..16
B.   Economic Reevaluation.....o...ooo....... ...              17
VIo INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE         .     .  ..... . .....         18
A.   Executing Agency.g                                        18
B.   Accounting and Financial Performance.o ... oooooo         19
Co  Trann.. a.....i               n     i      n      g ... 000.00..  20
D.   Government Performance .......  . ... ... . .0.0.         20
E.   Bank Performance.         ....   . . .. .....  * .....    21
This document has a restricted distribution and may be usod by recipients onlY in the peornance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be dioslsed without Worid Bank authoation.



VII. SPECIAL ISSUE.........................                       21
A.   Political and Macro-Economic Climate..............      21
ANNMS
3-1 Project Cost by Category and by Yer
3-2 Project Cost by Station
3-3 Financing of Project Components
3-4 Schedule of Disbursem_nts
4    Key Indicators
5    Economic Costs and Benefits
6    Financial Situation after Project Completion
Maps
Guinea              IBRD 14163R
Pilot Project Area IBRD 14164



PRDJECT COMPLITION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
RICE D3VRLOWMVCT PROJECT
(CREDIT 952-GUI)
This is a Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Rice Development
Project for whlch Credit 952-GUI In the *um of US$ 10.4 million was lent to
Government with the objective of developing the overall planning capability
for the rice subs-ctor including auxillary support for related activities
in the subsector. The Credit was approved on September 18, 1979, becsme
effective on April 14, 1980 and closed, fully disbursed, in June 1986. The
project was cofinanced with the African Development Fund (AIDF) which
provided US$ 4.5 million equivalent.
The PCR was prepared by the Africa Regional Office following a
country visit in January 1987 and is based upon a review of the Appraisal
Report (Report No. 2389,  dated Aug- t  17,  1979), the President's Report
(Report No. P-2516 dated August ', 1979), and the Credit Agreement of
November 2, 1979.
In accordance with the revised procedures for project performance
reporting, this PCR was read by the Operations Evaluation Department (OED)
but the project was not audited by  OED  staff.   The draft PCR was sent to
the Borrower and  cofinanceir on  February  23,  1988.    No comments were
received.
S ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~



- ii -
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
RICE DEVELOPKENT PROJECT (Cr. 952-GUI)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT BASIC DATA SHEET
Key Project Data
Appraisal          Actual or
Item                                    Expectation        Current Estimate
------------------------------------------------------------__-------------
Total Project Cost (US$ million)           21.0                24.6
Overrun  ()                                  -                 17
Credit Amount (US$ million)                10.4                10.4
Disbursed (US$ million)                    10.4                10.4
Date Physical Components Completed         12/84               12/85
Proportion Completed by Above Date (x)    100                 100
Proportion of Time Overrun (%)               -                 20
Economic Rate of Return (X)                13                  11%
Financial Performance                     Good              Worse
Institutional Performance                 Good              Similar
OTHER PROJECT DATA
Original              Actual or
Item                                Plan       Revision   Estimated Actual
First Mention in Files or Timetable   -                          4/76
Government's Application                                        12/77
Appraisal                           3/78           -             5/78
Negotiations                        4/79         5/14/79         7/79
Board Approval                   7/10/79           -          09/18/79
Credit Agreement Date                 -            -         11/02/79
Effectiveness Date               31/1180         17/3/80     04/14/80
Closing Date                       06/85           12/85        06/86
Borrower                           Governrent of Guinea
Executing Agency                   Operation Nationale Pour le
Developpement de la Riziculture (ONADER)
Fiscal Year of Borrower            January 1 - December 31
Follow-on Project Name             Gueckedou Agricultural Development
Project
Credit Number                      1635-GUI
Credit Amount                      SDR 6.7 million
Credit Agreement Date:             December 27, 1985



MISSION DATA
sent  month/  No. of No. nf   Staff-   Date of
Item                  by      year   Weeks  Persons  weeks    Report
__________________.._______________________________________________________
Identifi.ation        RMWA    2/77      0.4      1        0.4   04/13/77
Preparation           RMWA    9/77      0.8      1        0.8   11/08/77
RMWA    12/77    0.5      1        0.5   01/03/78
RMWA    3/78     1.0      1        1.0   03/13/78
Appraisal               HQ    5/78    4.0        4       16.0   08/17/79
Post-Appraisal          HQ    10/78    2.0       1        2.0    10/24/79
8.7             20.7
Supervision I           HQ    11/79    1.2       1        1.2   12/20/79
Supervision II          HQ    12/79    0.5       1        0.5   01/16/80
Supervision III         HQ    10/80     1.2      1        1.2   11/26/80
Supervision IV          HQ    03/81     2.6      2        5.2   04/24/81
Supervision V           HQ    9/81      2.2      1        2.2   10/16/81
Supervision VI          HQ   06/82    2.8        2        5.6   08/04/82
Supervision VII    RMWA/HQ    11/82    2.4       2        4.8   02/18/83
Supervision VIII      RMWA   07/83      3.0      2        6.0   08/03/83
Supervision IX        RMWA    11/83     1.4      2        2.8   01/25/84
Supervision X         RMWA    5/84      1.2      3        3.6   06/08/84
Supervision XI        RMWA    10/84     0.8      4        3.2   01/11/85
Supervision XII       RMWA    4/85      2.0      1        2.0   05/25/85
Supervision XIII      RMWA   10/85      1.4      3        4.2   11/08/85
Supervision XIV       ENWA   03/86      1.2      2        2.4   03/17/86
Completion            RMWA   01/87      0.8      1        0.8
24.7             45.7
COUNTRY EXCHANGE RATES
Year
Appraisal Year Average (1978)          Exchange Rate: US$1 - Sylis 20
Intervening Years Average (1979-84)                   US$1 - Sylis 22.95
Completion Year Average (1985)                        US$1 - Sylis 22.47



- iv -
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
RICZ DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 952-GUI)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.       The Rice Development Project,  which  is  the subject of this PCR,
was identified in a review of the rice subsector undertaken by funds
provided from the Bank Group's first project in Guinea's rural sector. The
project as appraised, however, represents a considerably modified version
of the initial Government request that proposed the project as supporting a
highly  mechanized  production  system   end  rice  cultivation  by  farmer
collectives.
Obiectives
2.       The Rice Development Project which was  to be Implemented over a
five-year period was  designed  to:    (a)  improve  national planning for
Guinea's rice subsector; (b) upgrade rice research; (c) assess ways to
improve rural incentives; and (d) implement a pilot rice development
project in  Guinea's  high  potential  forest  region  to  test and develop
technical improvements as a basis for a follow-up project in the same area.
The project was prepared by consultants under the IDA-financed Daboya
project (Credit 569-GUI).
3.       The project, as appraised, had two main components, a national and
a pilot prolect component. The National Component consisted of: (a) the
establishment of a specialized Rice Development Agency - ONADER, within the
Ministry of Agriculture for planning and coordinating rice development in
the country; (b) a study of ways to improve rural incentives; and (c)
applied rice research  in  three  different  ecological  zones.   The pilot
project component, Operation Riz Gueckedou (ORG) consisted of: (a) low
cost irrigation works on 700 ha of selected swamplands; (b) extenion,
training and credit services for about 2,700 farm families and 12
mechanized cooperatives; (c) mechanized seed multiplication farm and
processing plant for production and distribution of improved rice seed to
farmers; (d) construction of project offices, a workshop and staff housing
and (e) construction and maintenancetkm fices,of  feeder  roadst
Implementation Experience
4.       The project became effective  on  April  14,  1980  two and a half
months a.fter the original effectiveness date. Physical implementation of



the project started at a rather slow pace and all project components had
considerable start-up difficulties, except for the rural incentives study,
owing mainly to inexperience of project management and technical staff,
problems in obtaining office space, delays in procurement and bankruptcy
of the first firm selected to execute the construction program. The
problems faced in the construction program led to a considerable cost
overrun for this component. As a result the program was scaled down and
the completion of che seed treatment plait ws d-layed, so that it started
operations only in 1984. Project execution picked up, however, from the
beginning of 1984 and the project was completed by the end of 1985, one
year behind schedule.
5.       Total project cost was  estimated  at  Sylis 420 million (US$21.0
million) at appraisal. Actual costs have been estimated at Sylis 562.7
million (US$24.6 million), 172 above the appraisal estimate. This amount
however includes about US$1 million of prefinancing for the follow-up
project (para 3.23). IDA financed about 431 of project costs compared to a
provision of  501  at  appraisal.    The  African  Development  Fund (AfDF)
financed about 18% ot project costs compared to a provision of 23Z at
appraisal and Government financed the remaining 39% compared to a provision
of 271 at appraisal. The lower share of IDA financing was due to the fact
that Government decided to finance a 1001 of fuel and lubricants instead of
sharing the financing 50Z each with IDA as projected at appraisal.
Government also financed larger shares in construction and in the purchase
of supplies and spares than  projected.    The larger share in construction
was due to the cost overrun, whilst most of the spares and supplies bvught
were purchased in local currency on the parallel market not reimburseable
by IDA.
Results
6.       The  pilot  component  of   the   project  has  been  particularly
successful in stimulating agricultural development in the Gueckedou region.
Particularly impressive in the ORG component   has been the level of farmer
acceptance of, arl enthusiasm with, the project's technical package and
their willingness to construct, in their swamplands, simple water control
systems with their own family or hired labor. At appraisal, only half of
the swampland improvements had been envisaged this way, with project
machinery  beirng used  for  the  other  half.    In practice,  almost all
swamplands were developed using  labor-intensive methods.   There has also
been double-cropping (about 151) and permanent settlement of some farmers
on swamps abandoning shifting  cultivation.    These are extra achievements
not foreseen at appraisal.
7.       The physical targets of  the  pilot project for upland cultivation
and feeder road construction and maintenance  were surpassed, and targets
in terms of production under swamp conditions were largely met. Total
incremental production from project participants is estimated at 6,800 tons
of paddy rice (1501 of appraisal estimates) with an estimated additional



- vi -
650  tons  attributable  to   incremental   production.    The  incremental
production came from seed released from the project to farmers outside of
the project area, through farmers trad4ng seeds voluntarily and through
direct sales of seed by the project.
8.       Average  income  per manday  for  families  participating  In the
project, increased from about 65 Sylis (US$3.25) in the without project
situation to abeut 340 Sylis (US$14.9) with the project under upland
conditions, and from about 160 Sylis (US$8.0) to about 510 Sylis (US$22.3)
under swamp  conditions.    These  are  considerably  higher than appraisal
expectations. The economic rate of return (ERR) at appraisal wa estimated
at 12.82  for  the  pilot  component.   Using  similar  assumptions  as at
appraisal but a far lower rate for seed release (para 5.05), the ER has
been reestimated at 10.92.   The  lower  rate  is due principally to lover
world market prices for rice than used at appraisal and conservative
assumption about seed release.
9.       With  respect  to  the   impact   of  the  national  project,  the
consultants study on rural prices served as a key element in subsequent
agricultural policy discussions with Government. Agricultural research in
the project represented, for over five years, the only ongoing and active
research activities in the country.    ONADER itself as an institution only
partially fulfilled its objectives. Its role as a rice sector planning end
coordinating unit was limited and its main activity before the change in
Government in 1984 was directed towards keeping the project's field
components going. It started from mid-1984 to get involved in Ministry
activities especially in socio-economic studies and investment review.
10.      The main  problems  faced  by  the  project was  in  the  area of
accounting and financial management and credit recovery. This resulted
from the absence of adequately trained staff and lack of experience of
these staff, compounded by the fact that the Guinean administration had
difficulties initially in accepting expatriate assistance in this area.
Expatriate help recruited in 1984 for the project was, however, ineffective
and poor record-keeping by this financial administrator on commitments, led
to  overestimation  of  funds  available.    This  resulted  in  a  serious
overcommitment since project management, under the mistaken impression that
money was still  available  in the  credit,  purchased  items  for the two
follow-up projects, Gueckedou and First Agricultural Services Project that
became effective in the  third  quarter  of  1986.   Based on the financial
situation that had been submitted to it, IDA did not raise any objections
to the purchases to prepare for these two follow-up projects. This was,
however, due to the fact that IDA supervision concentrated more on
technical and administrative matters.   A  more  active supervision of the
accounting and financial situation could have prevented the overcommitment
of funds made in the project. For the pilot project credit component also,
poor recording of credit has led to a recovery rate of less than 50S. The
fact that funds from credit recovery were placed in a blocked account and
were not expected to be recycled for additional credit also did not
encourage vigilance by the project authorities.



- vil -
Findinas
11.      The main findinSg of the project Include:
(a) The project was able to demonstrate to the Government that a
suallholder orientation was  a more  effective  and a les  costly
approach to dovelopment than collectives or state farmrs.
(b)  The  project's  success  can   be  attributed  to  the  particular
attention paid to avoidisg parallel organizational structures.
The merger of ONADnR into the Ministry of Rural Development helped
to  create  a  single  planning   unit  for  the  Ministry.    The
integration or ORG into the regional Service of Rural Development
gav2 it responsibility for all rural development activities in the
Gueck-dou prefectures.
(c)  The  project  wa   able  to  successfully  test  simple  technical
packages that promoted low cost yield Improvements using simple
technology (such as improved seed, fertilizer, simple water
control  and   crop   husbandry   Improvem_nts).   This  generated
impressive farmer  acceptance  and  enthusiasm  for  the technical
packages.  The technical  packages  are  being  applied on a large
scale in a follow-on project (Gueckedou Agricultural Development
Project, Credit 1635-GUI).
(d) IDA supervision in the area of accounting, financial management
and  credit   recovery   was   weak   since   supervision  efforts
concentrated  on  technical  and   administrative  matters.    The
problems faced by the project In these areas, which resulted from
lack of trained and experienced staff, and later ineffective
expatriate assistance, could have boen minimized by more active
IDA supervision that focussed on accounting, financial management
and cost recovery.



REPUBLIC O0 GUINEA
RICE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Completion Report
I. BACKGROUND
1.01      In the period just after independence in 1958, Guinea adopted an
ideology that favored a direct transition from traditional rural production
to a modern socialist state emphasizing collective ownership of the means
of production and self-sufficiency. In an attempt to increase the
productivity of rural labor, the Government promoted collectivization and
mechanization using state farms, neglecting and alienating in the process,
a large majority of the rural population who were individual smallholders.
Practically all public investments in the rural sector were allocated to
collective agriculture and mechanization. These however did not lead to
any significant improvements in agricultural output.
1.02      In 1977, Government asked IDA to help finance a program that
would help develop the country's rice subsector. IDA agreed to finance a
project that would improve national planning for the rice subsector,
upgrade rice research, assess ways to improve rural incentives and develop
a pilot rice production activity based on smallholders in the high
potential forestry region of the country.  The project was appraised in May
1978, signed on November 2, 1979 and declared effective in April 1910. An
African Development Fund (AfDF) credit cofinanced the project. The
appraised project however represented a considerably modified version of
the initial Government request and the project as prepared by consultants,
that had proposed highly mechanized production systems and rice cultivation
by farmer collectives.
II. FORMULATION
A.  Origin and Preparation
2.01      Under the first project financed by the Bank Group in Guinea's
rural sector, the Daboya Pineapple Project, funds were provided to do a
review of Guinea's rice sector and identify areas suitable for development
projects. A consulting firm involved in the execution of the Daboya
project was asked to do the review and identify a possible rice project.
The consultant report issued in December 1976 identified four sites for
rice projects, two of which were selected for detailed project preparation.
Feasibility studies for these two sites were completed in .Tnly 1977.
2.02      The preparation reports for the two sites, influenced strongly by
the then Government policy, proposed highly mechanized production systems.
Upland rice normally cultivated by smallholders, was to be grown on state
farms using force acccunt with participation of individual farmers only as



-2-
outgrowers, and bottomland development was to be done mechanically by
farmer collectives. In the proposed design of the project, the traditional
smallholder who in practice had cultivated the uplands, had been neglected
although the terms of reference for the study specifically asked the
consultants to propose simple and inexpensive methods of rice production
through improved service to farmers. The Bank, while not completely
rejecting the proposals contained in the preparation report, concluded that
the project proposals were technically and economically unsatisfactory and
would lead to a low rate of return. The Bank therefore asked for a
reformulation of the project that would put the main emphasis on developing
services for smallholders.
B.   ApDraisal
2.03      A four man appraisal mission visited Guinea in May 1978.  At the
outset of appraisal, Government indicated its interest in moving away from
state farms and hence requested the appraisal mission to reformulate the
project which, as prepared, had envisaged an important component for state
farms. The .aission therefore redesigned the project to include measures
that would assist Government in its overall rice development objectives as
well as a pilot project for smallholder rice development in a part of
Gueckedou region in the forest zone of Guinea. The pilot project would
include simple and replicable improvements to existing fauming practices of
the two basic production units in Guinea. The smallholder and the
collective but with emphasis on the former.
2.04      The appraisal mission raised a number of issues as regards the
project. Aside from the general economic issue of currency overvaluation
and centralized decision making, the mission found that: (a) production
incentives were very low when interpreted in terms of Government official
output prices, though parallel market prices and unofficial exports led to
real economic benefits for the farmers that would be involved in the
project; (b) Government still considered swampland development as a
preserve for collectives; and (c) that expatriates were generally regarded
with suspicion but owing to the shortage of technical expertise in Guinea a
large number of expatriates would be necessary.
2.05      A decision meeting held to consider the issues raised by the
appraisal mission decided that since there was not enough knowledge on
costs of production and incentives to make immediate demands for altering
Government pricing policy, the pricing and incentives study proposed by the
appraisal mission should be carried out rapidly and a dialogue established
with Government on prices. The meeting also agreed to the incorporation of
certain collectives in project execution provided they meet certain
performance criteria and accept an effective technical package to augment
their productivity. Proposals for including expatriates in the project
were also accepted, but the meeting asked that the number be kept to the
minimum necessary.
2.06      Government agreed to the reformulated project and the proposals
of the appraisal mission on project components with some minor changes in
emphasis. These changes however did not affect the final project design.



-3-
C.   Targets and Goals
2.07      The final project design consisted of two main development
activities; a national component aimed at assisting Government to overcome
institutional and technical constraints impeding rice development and a
pilot project in a part of Gueckedou region in Guinea's high potential
forest zone.
2.08      The National Component consisted of: (a) the establishment of a
specialized Rice Development Agency - Operation Nationale pour le
Developpement de la Riziculture (ONADER) within the Ministry of Agriculture
for planning and coordinating rice development and for acting as executing
agency for the project's field level activities; (b) a study of rural
prices and incentives; and (c) applied rice research at three stations:
Kamalo, near Gueckedou in the forest region, Baro in Upper Guinea, and Koba
in Maritime Guinea, each representative of one of the three main rice
growing ecological zones in Guinea.
2.09      The Pilot Rice Development Proiect, Operation Riz Gueckedou,
(ORG) consisted of: (a) low cost irrigation works on 700 ha of selected
swamplands; (b) extension, training and credit services for about 2,700
farm families and 12 mechanized cooperatives; (c) mechanized seed
multiplication farm and processing plant for production and distribution of
improved rice seed to farmers; (d) construction of project offices, a
workshop and staff housing; and (e) construction and maintenance of 63 kms
of feeder roads.
2.10      The National Component, through ONADER, was to provide the
Ministry of Agriculture with an appropriately staffed and equipped sentral
office for planning and guidance on rural sector development with
particular emphasis on rice. It was also expected to restart an applied
research program, limited during the project period to rice, but aimed at
developing a program capable of providing appropriate agronomic
recommendations and demonstrations upon which Guinea's medium and longer
term agricultural development could be based. In addition the component
aimed at studying producer incentives and providing Government with
recommendations on prices of agricultural produce and inputs. Provision
was also made in the component for preparing a possible project in Upper
Guinea in the Niger/Tinkisso valley.
2.11      The ORG, unlike the Bank's first venture in Guinea's rural
sector, the enclave Daboya Pineapple Project, set out to make inroads on
development of what was then and still is regarded by the Bank as Guinea's
key resource in the rural sector, smallholder agriculture. As such the
design of this pilot component was a novelty for Guinea, whose main
emphasis was on collective agriculture. Collectives or state farms were
substituted by a smallholder orientation; manual labor was favored over
mechanization; and the technical package promoted low cost yield impro-
vements using simple technology (improved seed, fertilizer, simple water
control, and simple crops husbandry improvements) and was based on proven
experience in similar ecological areas. The key concept was for
development of technically and economically viable methods for improving
productivity whi v' could, if successful, be readily applied to a larger
number of farmers. This approach also involved establishment of the usual



- 4 -
range of support services in the pilot project area (management, research,
extension, seed multiplication, feeder roads, extension, training, credit,
monitoring and evaluation) many of which were themselves novelties in terms
of practical implementation for Guinea.
2.12      The main crop to be improved during the pilot phase was rice.
Based on official input and output prices, smallholder net returns were
expected to increase from 52 Sylis (US$2.60) per man-day to 85 sylis
(US$4.25) per man-day fr t.pland rice and from 94 Sylis (US$4.70) per
man-day to 146 Sylis (US$7.30) per man-day for swamp rice. For the
collectives involved in the project their net incomes were expected to
increase from an average per cooperative of 21,000 Sylis (US$1,050) to an
average of 600,000 Sylis (US$30,000).
III. IMPLEMENTATION
A.   Effectiveness and Start un
3.01      The credit was approved on September 18, 1979 and became
effective on April 14, 1980, two and a half months after the original
effectiveness date. The four conditions of credit effectiveness were
(a) the appointment of suitable directors for ONADER and ORG; (b) signature
of a contract with a consulting firm or group for technical assistance
services; (c) opening of a local currency account and payment by Government
of its initial contribution into this account; and (d) the meeting of
conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the African Development Fund
Loan Agreement. At the date initially fixed for effectiveness, January 31,
1980, the conditions involving the appointment of directors _or ONADER and
ORG as well as signature of contract for technical assistance had been met.
However delays in meeting AfDB conditions, creating the local currency
account and issuing a legal opinion for the credit led to a postponement of
the effectiveness date to mid-March. The project eventually became
effective on April 14, 1980.
3.02      Some start-up activities were initiated before effectiveness.
Contract for the price study was signed by February 20, 1980. Bidding
documents were prepared for the civil works component of the project and
bids called for by the time of effectiveness. Despite these preparations,
work on the construction did not start until February 1981 due essentially
to delays in selecting the firm for the construction and some apparent
financial difficulties of the selected firm in getting things off the
ground. The price study started towards the end of 1980. Apart from the
price study then that got off to a relatively good start all other project
components including general field level activities had considerable
start-up difficulties owing mainly to inexperience of project managers and
technical staff, problems in obtaining office space, and delays in
equipment and vehicle acquisition.
B.   Revisions
3.03      There were no major changes made in project design during
implementation though some changes in scope were made. The project had
envisaged a preparation study for a rice project in upper Guinea. This was



- 5 -
however dropped in favor of preparing a second phase for the Gueckedou
pilot project plus small pilot phase activities centered around the two
research stations at Koba and Baro. The decision to drop preparation of
the rice project was taken because several development agencies had already
started projects in the upper Guinea area, about the time the study was due
to start.
3.04      The firm that had originally been awarded the contract for
construction went bankrupt only about six months after construction
started.  This situation was perhaps due to poor evaluation of bids by
Government in not verifying the financial soundness of the firm despite IDA
request to Government and AfDF, which financed the component, to review the
firm's financial situation. A new company was selected and the higher cost
of the new contract led to a considerable scaling down of the civil works
program. AfDF had initially indicated a willingness to give a
supplementary credit to cover the higher cost but changed its mind later
(para 3.08). The appraisal report had proposed the construction of; an
office for ONADER and three houses for expatriates in Conakry; 2 housing
units, a simple office and laboratory and storage at each of the research
stations in Guinea maritime (Koba) and upper Guinea (Baro); and at
Gueckedou, a project headquarters, including an office block, 17 staff
housing units, a workshop, hangars for equipment storage, training centre,
small laboratory and a seed processing plant. At project completion only
part of the Gueckedou complex including the office block and training
centre, laboratory and seed processing plant had been constructed. Five of
the 17 housing units were also constructed at Gueckedou.
3.05      Since the initial stages of the project no special effort was
made either by project management or by IDA supervision missions tooprovide
any support for the Agro-communal farms (FAC) included in the project at
Government insistence.  Apart from some credit for spare parts given out to
them by the project in 1982, no special programs were set up for them
either by way of extension, training or seed distribution.  Government
emphasis on these collective farms, the FAC declined since 1980 in favor of
another form, the District Agro-Pastoral Farms, FAPA that were supposed to
be more autonomous. From about 1983 then, the component to support the
Agro Commercial farms was dropped.
C.   Physical Progress
1.   The National Component
3.06      Prices and Incentives Study.  The rural prices and incentives
study started in the second half of 1980 and proceeded according to
schedule. The first phase of the study was completed and discussed and the
second phase field work started by April 1981. The field work was finished
by about April 1982 and the final report submitted in February 1983. The
report provided an important data base for a comprehensive Agricultural
Sector Review Report (GUI-4672) prepared by the Bank beginning with a
sector mission in November 1982. The report also served as a key document
in policy discussions to encourage support for Guinea's smallholders.
3.07      Research.  Research tr .als at all three stations, Baro, Kamalo
(near Gueckedou), and Koba started in 1981. The lack of experience of
research staff was quite evident from the conduct of trials during the
first two years. Even with the support of ONADER's Agronomy Department



-6-
research at Baro and Koba did not yield readily applicable technical
packages. A combination of often inappropriate objectives (inadequate
orientation of most trials to farmer needs), logistical difficulties (lack
of fuel, labor and spares) and eco-climatic setbacks (floods and droughts)
retarded progress towards the developi.ient of sure technical packages.
3.08      Construction.  Despite the fact that bids had been called for the
construction program before effectiveness, the program could not proceed
according to schedule. Questions were raised after bid evaluation In July
1980, about the financial health of the firm proposed by Government to do
the construction. Government, after discussions with the African
Development fund (AfDF) that financed this component, informed IDA in
September 1980 that they were satisfied that the proposed firm could carry
out the construction. The contract was therefore signed in November 1980
and work started in February 1981. Construction work was halted around the
last quarter of 1981 because of financial difficulties and general
incompetence of the entrepreneur. A new firm was selected and a new
contract signed in June 1982. The higher cost of the new contract combined
with an underestimation of construction cost at appraisal led to a scaling
down of the construction program that had been envisaged. The African
Development Fund (AfDF) that was responsible for financing civil works had
agreed in December 1982 to prepare a supplementary credit of US$2.5 million
to complete the initial construction program and also to enable continued
financing of technical assistance.  AfDF however, did not follow up on this
supplementary credit despite repeated requests from Government. The
reduced construction program led to difficulties for ONADER throughout the
project period especially in finding appropriate office space. The delays
in the program for Gueckedou also meant that seed treatment could not start
until the 1984 season when the construction was finished.
2.   The Pilot Rice Operation
3.09      General.  Field level activities at Gueckedou started in 1981 as
envisaged at appraisal but under extremely difficult conditions. Since
most of the initial equipment arrived only in late 1981, swampland
development, seed multiplication and feeder road construction for this
first year of field level implementation was on a rather low scale. Most
of these activities started in earnest only in 1982. Farmer participation,
for example, was below appraisal targets up to 1983, before picking up from
1984. Extension service performance was disappointing over the first two
years owing to poor initial training and lack of experience of extension
staff.  Some delays were also encountered in the land development and road             I
construction program during the first two years due in part to lack of
equipment but also largely due to inexperience of staff and for the swamp
development program, due to initial reluctance of some of the farmers to                I
participate in it. From 1983 when farmer suspicion of Government
intentions had abated, the swamp development program proceeded
satisfactorily.
3.10      Agricultural Extension.  During the project, an extension service
was set up and towards the last two project years organized in line with
the Training and Visit System. This represented the first attempt in any
part of the country to organize a regular extension system for
smallholders. Initially, the system was quite inefficient because of poor



- 7 -
training and a clear lack of experience of the extension staff. With the
introduction during the last two years of the Training and Visit system as
well as consultant support in training, the quality of extension did
improve. The system permitted a first attempt to introduce systematic
agricultural extension for smallholder farmers in Guinea and to organize
farmers into voluntary groups and is generally agreed to have helpad in
reaching a larger number of farmers.
3.11      Seed Production.  Improved seed was to be multiplied on a 400 ha
mechanized seed production farm with seed from the farm being processed
(cleaning, drying, dressing & bagging) at a seed treatment plant that was
to be constructed during the first two years of the project. Using manual
techniques, the seed farm cultivated some 12 ha of upland rice and 2.5 ha
of swamp rice in 1981. After equipment was received in 1982, about 104 ha
of land was cleared for upland rice but only 90 ha cultivated. The maximum
area cultivated by che seed farm was 160 ha in 1984. In general, yields
from the mechanized seed farm were lower than expected at appraisal and
also much lower than what farmers obtained on their own fields, averaging
about 700 kg/ha before treatment, compared to an average of 1,300 kg/ha
expected at appraisal and about 1,500 kg/ha being obtained by farmers on
their own fields. As of the 1984/85 season, the project realized that
production from the seed farm was too expensive and did not yield enough to
meet all the demand coming from farmers, it therefore selected set71
outgrowers as contract farmers who receive special extension advice on seed
production. However the lack of a clear policy on seed pricing before the
liberalization of the agricultural pricing system in Guinea beginning
towards the end of 1985, prevented a full use of the contract farmer
system. The follow-up Gueckedou project has proposed a fuller use of the
contract farmer with the seed farm producing only foundation seed. .
3.12      The seed treatment plant came into operation in early 1984 and
was used for processing the seed produced during the 1983/84 season. This
plant represents the only seed conditioning unit existing in Guinea. Even
though it has a capacity of about 450 tons/year, it has been processing an
average of about 100 to 120 tons/year over the last three years (including
1986). A seed project being prepared by IDA proposes to slightly modify
the origi.al design of the plant to be able to process about 2.000 tons per
year to serve the whole of the forest zone of the country.
3.13      Input SupplY and Asricultural Credit.  Provision of agricultural
credit in Guinea, during the project period, was the responsibility of the
National Bank for Agricultural Development, BNDA, but because of lack of
personnel and absence of field offices it was unable to fulfill this role.
Under the pilot phase of the project, ORG was responsible for input supply
and credit management. It signed an agreement with BNDA, through which the
latter seconded a credit agent to ORG, to be responsible for agricultural
credit administration. The agent worked with the management of ORG and had
two credit agents per zone. Credit terms were one year for short term
credit (fertilizer, seed and implements), and three years for medium term
credit of agricultural equipment and labor costs for land development. All
credit attracted an interest rate of 7%, 3 points below the BNDA credit
rate of 10%.
3.14      The credit unit, was attached to the extension unit and field
extension agents distributed inputs as part of their extension work and
recorded all credit given out for submission to, and control by, the credit



~0
unit. Except for credit for labor used in land development, all other
credit was given out in kind, and a Government policy dictated that credit
was to be paid back in kind, mostly through rice. Credit recording and
collection under the pilot phase was not satisfactory. In the initial
project years, though recording of credit given out was done
satisfactorily, repayments in kind were normally not recorded and hence it
has been difficult to establish the correct reimbursement rate. Farmers
were also reluctant to repay in kind, since quantities of rice needed to
repay credits were calculated based on the official rice price, which was
considerably lower than the parallel market price. Available information
shows that the average repayment rate over the entire project period was
about 41%, for both short and medium term credit. Funds from credit
recovery were put in a blocked account and no provision was included in the
project for re-using these funds for additional credit.
3.15      An external audit of all Phase I project activities done in early
1985 had as one of the principal tasks to establish the true situation of
agricultural credit during this first phase. Because of the poor credit
recording system, the audit report issued in July 1985 estimated that it
would be difficult to obtain reimbursement for over half of all credits
given out before December 31, 1985. The follow-up project has proposed a
reorganization of the credit unit making the financial director directly
responsible for credit administration. Staff have been recruited whose
main responsibility would be: to study farmer credit requirements, prepare,
issue and control farmer credit, distribute inputs to farmers, and recover
and collect all credit repayments. Extension agents will no longer be
involved in input distribution or credit recovery. Farmer repayments are
to be used as a revolving fund for future input purchase.
3.16      Monitoring and Evaluation.  A small monitoring and evaluation
unit was to be set up at Gueckedou to monitor the project's impact and
collect data for the follow-up project. The unit 4as to be made up of
local Guinean staff assisted by the expatriate agro-economist of ONADER.
The unit in Gueckedou was never able to get off the ground. The initial
difficulty was presumably the reluctance under the Sekou Toure regime, to
provide adequate information and farmers unwillingness to let the
authorities know exactly what they were doing. Hence there was a lack of
support from project management as well as farmers themselves for the
unit's work during the initial years. The main problem of the unit however
has been the rather poor technical support it obtained throughout the
project f:-stly from the ONADER Agro-Economic unit and secondly from a
short-term consultant financed by the project to help get the unit started.
The intervention of the consultant beginning in mid-1984 (about three
visits) only led to additional confusion for the monitoring and evaluation
staff, who besides not having any high-level statistical training had very
little experience in data collection and analysis. The consultant
introduced a very comprehensive but rather theoretical management
information system, for monitoring and evaluating all aspects of the
project. The system required a level of sophistication in data collection
and interpretation that none of the local staff had; Thus despite over six
man-months of consultant services, the unit was neither able to monitor nor
evaluate meaningfully any project activity. When supervision missions
realised that the local staff could not apply the system proposed by the
consultant, they made proposals for simplifying it. These proposals ,
however came too late to provide any results. Steps have been taken during
the second phase to define more clearly the output required from the M&E



_9-
unit. Its main activities would concentrate on monitoring the effects and
quality of project interventions and performance of the recommended
technical messages. A visiting consultant, well-versed in developing
simple indicators of project performance will assist the unit from time to
time.
3.17      Road Construction.  The main objective of the road component was
to upgrade and maintain 63 km of key access roads. Because of a lack of
equipment and operating means for the Gueckedou subdivision of the Ministry
of Public Works, the rehabilitation and maintenance of all the key
secondary and tertiary arteries became the responsibility of the Rural
Works Department of ORG. The road constru.tion capacity was built up
between 1981-83 through equipment acquired during the project and a
bulldozer given to it by the Gueckedou subdivision of the Ministry of
Public Works. Through simple bridges, culverts, land clearing and filling
up holes, the Roads Unit of ORG was able to upgrade several roads and
tracks, linking major district centers, to all weather standards. The
project rehabilitated a total of some 247 km and maintained some 195 km
during the project period. Most of the equipment is satisfactorily
maintained and repaired in the ORG workshop established by the Project.
D.   Reportint
3.18      In addition to annual reports that were generally submitted on
schedule to IDA, the project also put out annually reports on the research
results for the past year and the research program for the coming year.
Visiting supervision missions were also provided progress reports on the
project.  ONADER, in its role as a planning agency, did specific studies
from time to time on which it prepared reports.  The quality of theoannmal
and progress reports however were not uniform and generally leave gaps in
information. In general while the reports do contain detailed information
on work programs, staff levels and composition and activities of
departments, they do not provide any insight into project impact in terms
of yield and production increases or for example the quality of land
development works. Neither do they give any comparisons between
achievements and objectives and costs of various activities. Despite
consultant support for monitoring and evaluation, the unit has not been
able so far to measure project impact or monitor the reach of extension
activities (para 3.16).
E.   Procurement
3.19      Procurement of goods constituted one of the key problem area of
the project. Serious balance of payments difficulties in Guinea over
several years accompanied by Government controls on trade and price levels,
including a serious overvaluation of the local currency resulted in
shortages of all types of goods in the country. Thus most requirements of
the project had to be imported. Because of the lack of adequate training
and experience of project management and financial staff, they found it
difficult to plan forward as required by the procurement procedures,
leading often to delays in acquiring much needed goods for the project. In
general however goods and services that should be acquired under ICB were
done according to acceptable procedures. The main underlying cause of
procurement difficulties was the lack of forward planning. This was



- 10 -
compounded before 1984, by unwieldy local administrative and procurement
procedures requiring clearances and involvement of several ministries in
bid document preparation and evaluation. The system changed after 1984
when the Government abolished the central bureau of Projects at the
presidency responsible for overseeing all procurement.
3.20      In the area of procurement of spare parts and small items and
equipment dene through international shopping, much delays and confusion
were encountered. Since most items had to oe imported and there were
relatively very few companies represented in Guinea, orders were often
placed through the group of firms providing consulting services for the
project and sometimes directly through dealers on mission to Conakry.
However communication difficulties often led to delays of between 6 to 12
months even for orders placed through such channels. The work of ONADER
in procurement was made all the more difficult by the fact that ORG and the
research stations did not appreciate the need to adhere strictly to
laid-down procurement procedures, and this complicated matters. When these
outposts placed orders with ONADER, they wanted the orders filled within
the shortest possible time, often unwilling to accept that certain
procedures needed to be followed. Project management however sometimes
took the initiative of buying some spares locally on the parallel market
using local counterpart funds. This helped ease some of the problems
caused by delays in international procurement.
3.21      From mid-1984, a liaison office was created for ORG, the largest
"outpost", in the Conakry office of ONADER to help follow up on orders and
inform ORG of the procurement difficulties. This office together with a
new financial management in ONADER from 1985 did accelerate considerably
acquisition of goods for ORG. It should also be noted that from this
period several new firms were establishing offices in Guinea following the
new Government's liberalization policies. During this period however, the
objective of accelerating procurement for ORG and its follow up project,
the Gueckedou Agricultural Development Project, was done at the expense of
a clear monitoring of available funds leading to overcommitment of funds
under the credit (paras 6.09 & 6.10). In general however, despite the
delays during the early project period and slight deviations from the
procurement provisions especially towards the end of the project the
procurement process was satisfactory given the Guinean conditions under
which the project was executed. The procurement delays did not seriously
affect project execution.
F.   Proiect Costs
3.22      Total project costs were estimated at 420 million Sylis
(US$21.0 million) at appraisal including contingencies of 77.8 million
Sylis (US$3.9 million). Actual costs have been difficult to establish
especially per component, in part because of poor accounting, and the fact
that ONADER, which was supposed to purchase items for the other components
such as ORG did not always communicate the costs of such items to the units
concerned. Figures supplied by the various units (ONADER and ORG) in their
annual financial reports are often not consistent with the audited
accounts. Available figures indicate however that the costs of equipment,
vehicles and other project inputs, construction and fertilizer, were
significantly higher than appraisal, while local salaries, and fellowships
and consultants have been estimated to be lower than at appraisal. A
summary of actual costs and appraisal estimates compare as follows, with
details in Annex 3-1 and 3-2.



- 11 -
Table 3.1: C_mparison Between Appraisal and Actual Expenditure
Actual
Appraisal      Estimated       as % of
Estimate       Actual          Appraisal
US$ 030
Equipment, Vehicles, Spares, Supplies
and Farm Inputs (except Fertilizer)      5.4           8.5            158
Fertilizer                               0.6           0.9            148
Resident Technical Assistance            3.2           3.9            120
Fellowships and Consultant&              2.1           1.6             77
Fuel and Lubricants                      4.0           3.1             77
Civil Works                              2.9           4.8            166
Local Salaries                           2.8           1.8             65
21.0         24.6             117
0~~
3.23      The equipment, vehicles and spares category exceeded appraisal
estimates generally because close to US$1 million of the excess served to
prefinance items for the second phase Gueckedou project while about the
equivalent of US$1.7 million of spares and supplies were purchased by
project managerment locally on the parallel market at considerable mark up
prices in dollar terms (converted in project cost at the official exchange
rate). The fertilizer exceeded appraisal targets also because of some
prefinancing of the second phase. Anticipating delays in the start of the
Gueckedou project, management procured enough fertilizer in 1985 to cover
two seasons. The Resident Technical Assistance category was over appraisal
targets because of additional staff not foreseen at appraisal but included
during supervision. Finally construction cost exceeded estimates because
of the initial difficulties in the construction program (para 3.08) but
also from the fact that Government financed a number of repairs and
temporary facilities for the project before the completion of the various
civil works programs. On hindsight, the acquisition of items in
preparation for the second phase project proved very useful because of
considerable delays by AfDF in getting the Gueckedou project effective.
Thus for the whole of 1986, the new Gueckedou project operated on items
acquired under the Rice Project. It should be noted though that IDA
agreement for the purchases was given based on an inaccurate financial
situation that the project management provided (para 6.06).
G.   Financing and Disbursement
3.24      IDA financed an estimated 43% of project costs compared with a
provision of 50% at appraisal. Government, on the other hand financed an
estimated 39% compared with a provision of 27% at appraisal. The slightly
lower IDA share and higher Government share were due to the fact that
Government financed a 100% of fuel and lubricants instead of the 50%
projected at appraisal. Government also financed significant shares of



- 12 -
construction and equipment and supplies (the latter covering supplies and
spares bought locally), items for which it was expected to participate only
slightly in their financing at appraisal. The initial financing plan was
adhered to, in as far as foreign and local cost financing were concerned.
IDA and AfDF financed all "foreign costs" 1/ and Government financed all
local costs. However the initial financing plan was not adhered to in
terms of percentages and categories of expenditure financed. IDA for
example financed Su% of fertilizer costs, 43% of resident technical
assistance costs and 79% of the costs of vehicles, equipment, spares and
supplies instead of 0%, 33% and 100% respectively. In general Government
share in financing different categories was highar than estimated and AfDF
share lower than foreseen. Financing by category is shown in the table
below with a comparison between Appraisal and actual estimates in Anex 3-3.
Table 3.2: Prolect Financing
IDA           AfDF         Government        Total
Sylis US$      Sylis  US$      Sylis  US$      Sylis  US$
(million)
Equipment, Vehicles,
Spares, Supplies
& other inputs       153.2   6.71        -     -     41.8  1.83    195.0  8.54
Fertilizer            10.0   0.44    10.0  0.44         -      -     20.0  0.88
Resident Technical
Assistance            37.5   1.64    50.5  2.21         -      -     88.0  3.85
Fellowships &
Consultants           36.9   1.61        -     -        -      -     36.9  1.61
Fuel &                   -      -        -     -     70.5  3.08      70.5  3.08
Lubricants
Civil Works              -      -    42.8  1.87      67.6  2.96    110.4  4.83
Local Salaries           -               -     - ^    .1.9  1.83     41.9  1.83
237.6  10.40   103.3  4.52    221.8  9.70    562.7 24.62
minmX   =2mm    =i   zmB              3         min
3.25      Credit disbursements started soon after credit effectiveness with
the opening of the special account and the start-up advance for the
consulting firm. Though actual disbursements lagged behind appraisal
estimates throughout, the general disbursement performance was quite
satisfactory running at roughly 65 to 70% of the original estimate and at
about 75% of the profile estimate up to the end of 1984. With the creation
1/   "Foreign Cor4ts" here refer to all items imported directly by the
project and contracts for foreign services.



- 13 -
of a liaison office for ORG and recruitment of a new financial director in
ONADER from the beginning of 1984, placemnt of orders for equipment and
spares accelerated. Disbursement therefore increased rapidly from late
1984 into the last year and the project was fully disbursed oy the profile
estimated date.
IV. AGRICULTURAL IWACT
A.   Production
4.01      At appraisal it was estimated that the Gueckedou pilot project
vould benefit some 2,700 farm families and 12 mechanized cooperatives who
were expected to derive direct income benefits from the project. Economic
benefits would be derived essentially from an increase in rice production
under both upland and swamp conditions.
4.02      Total area cultivated by smallholders under upland rice
conditions was not expected to change but upland yields were expected to
rise from 700 kg/ha to 1250 kg/ha. A total of 700 ha of swampland was to
be developed over the project period with average yields of developed
swamps increasing from 1,000 kg/ha to 2600 kg/ha. The 12 mechanized
cooperatives producing mainly upland rice were expected to increase their
cultivated area from 540 ha to 825 ha by PY4 and their yields from an
average of 400 kg/ha to 1000 kg/ha.
4.03      Despite a lack of consistent and reliable statistics on project
impact, because of a rather weak Monitoring and Evaluation unit, spot
measurements of areas and yields and estimates by extension staff and
ONADER's agro-economics unit on fields of families participating in the
project do permit a quantitative assessment of project impact. Some 5,230
farm families (or about 194% of appraisal targets) are estimated to have
received a significant share of project inputs and extension advice, that
had a direct impact on their production. A total of about 800 farm
families (30% of appraisal targets) benefitted from the swampland
development project. It should be noted however that the appraisal
definition of farmers participating in the swamp program was quite vague in
that about 1400 farmers instead of the 2700 (shown in the key indicators)
were supposed to have had land development works done on their swamps.
Following a change in Government orientation and emphasis towards
mechanized cooperatives 1/, the 12 cooperatives that were included -t
appraisal remained basically non operational and apart from some credit 2/
for fuel and spare parts given to them under the project during the first
year of field activities, they did not receive any project inputs or
support.
1/ From about 1979, FAPAs were substituted for FACs, that had been
included in the project.
The total amount of credits given to the FACs was Sylis 263,850.  This
was equivalent to about 78% of the credit given out for the first
year, but less than 2% of the total credit given out under the
project.



- 14 -
4.04      The table below compares the appraisal targets with estimated
actual achievements, for the last two years of the project, in terms of
upland and swamp cultivation, with evolution over the project period in
Annex 4.
Table 4.1 Key Indicators on Smallholder Upland and Swamp Rice Development
1984 1/                  1985
Est.    2            Est.    %
Unit      Appr.   Actual         Appr. Actual
UPLAND RICE
Number of Families        No.       2700      3011   112   2700   5232   194
Area per Family           Ha.        1.5       1.2    80   1.50    '.2    80
Area Planted 2/           Ha.       4050      3613    89   4050   6278   155
Estimated Yield         kg./Ha.     1250      1500   120   1250   1500   120
Production               Tons       5063      5420   107   5063   9418   186
SWAMP DEVELOPMENT 3/
Number of Families        No.       2700       616    23   2700    797    30
Area per Family           Ha.        0.5      0.83   166    0.5   0.82   164
Area DevelGped            Ha.         700      511    73    700    650    93
Prod. from Dev. Area    Tons        1820      1446    79   1820   2162   119
Area Cultivated           Ha.       1350       561    42   1350    750    56
Estimated Yield         kg./Ha.     2360      2580   109   2360   2880   122
Production               Tons       3186      1446    45   3186   216a    68
Notes
1/   1984 corresponds to the fourth year of field level implementation
(PY4) of the pilot project but PY5 of the project as a whole.
2/   Represents a cumulative figure of upland rice area touched by the
project (seed + fertilizer distribution, or only fertilizer). Does not
include farmers who may have received seed from friends and relatives.
3/   Appraisal Target was to touch a cultivated area of 1,350 ha (2,700
farm families) of which only 400 ha (800 farm families) would be
developed by PY4 and 700 ha (1,400 farm families) by PY5, the rest
-ising improved seed and fertilizer on non-developed swamps. The actual
figures given for number of families and area cultivated represent
families on, and areas of, developed swamps including double cropping
of developed areas. The project did not monitor non-developed swamps
that may have used improved seed or fertilizer.
Sources: Guinea Rice Development Project SAR (No. 2389-GUI) and
Mission Estimates.



-15 -
4.05      While production of upland rice on smallholder farms was
definitely higher than expected, it is not possible from the available data
to compare total actual production from swamps in the project area and what
was ex.ected at appraisal. It is however possible to compare expected and
actual production from the developed areas. This shows that production of
swamp rice was about 71% of what was expected mainly because of the smaller
number of farmers that had their swamps developed. Government
liberalization moves from the early 1980's explain to a large extent the
higher than expected response from the smallholders especially for upland
rice and the rapid increase in swamp development starting in 1983. Since
1981, Government did not try to block the large parallel market that
existed for rice and this helped encourage farmer participation in the
project.
4.06      The project's other agricultura1 con,ionents involved restarting
agricultural research at three stations. The amalo station attached to
ORG was able to carry out some applied re.ear h directly relevant to the
pilot ORG project and hence played an important role.  While the Koba and
Baro stations did some useful work in terms of testing different rice
varieties and doing selected pest control and fertilizer trials, a
combination of factors including inadequate trials under farmer conditions,
logistical difficulties and eco-climatic setbacks retarded progress towards
the development of sure technical packages for the two regions the two
stations were supposed to represent. The work on these two stations
however did lay the basis for further work and the Koba station for
example, produced enough results to permit the start of a pilot production
activity in the zone. The European Economic Community is interested in
financing a pilot activity in the Koba region based on these initial
results from the research program.
B.  Technological Change
4.07      The main agricultural themes that were to be introduced in upland
rice cultivation were: replacement of local rice seed by improved and
dressed seed; line sowing instead of seed broadcasting; selective pest
control; and application of fertilizer. For swamp cultivation, the
appraisal identified four systems of production, namely; (i) the
traditional; (ii) use of local seed varieties but with fertilizer and
limited water control; (iii) use of improved varieties, dressed seed and
fertilizer under limited water control; and (iv) as in (iii) but plus
improved water control through flood protection, bunding, land levelling
and drainage. The technical proposals were based on adaptation of research
results and techniques used in ecologically similar areas of neighboring
Liberia and Sierra Leone.
4.08      Project records show that during the first two project years
several factors contributed to limit the possible impact of the project on
the farming systems. Farmers were still mistrustful of Government and
hence participated only halfheartedly in the project especially as far as
swamp development was concerned. The low level of training and experience
of extension staff meant that message delivery to farmers was poor.
Beginning in late 1983, the project financed outside help in training
extension agents that helped improve message delivery. Inaccessibility of
some of the main centers "subprefectures" be_..ause of the poor road network



-16 -
meant that extension advice, and especially fertilizer could not get to
them easily. Dressed seed could not be distributed to farmers because the
seed treatment plant did not enter into production until 1984. The new
upland rice variety introduced by the project (LAC 23) did however spread
rapidly despite the fact that it had not been treated.
4.09      From the third year of pilot project, most farmers in the project
zone, realizing the improvement in the cultivation practices and yields of
those who had joined in the project, began soliciting project inputs in
large numbers. Demand for improved seed varieties as well as for
fertilizer increased considerably. The road rehabilitation program also
opened up a number of new areas helping in the rapid adoption of the
recommended practices. Farmers in general however did not abandon the
system of broadcasting seed and fertilizer for upland rice as had been
recommended at appraisal. This innovation was not adopted because of the
cultivation system whereby farmers help each other in groups to weed and
cultivate. Seeding and fertilizer application correspond to an initial
weeding period (after the slashing and burning). The process of weeding
with hoes help bury the seed and fertilizer at the same time. This
innovatian of line seeding would probably have modified considerably the
traditional system and hence it was not adopted, especially since the
project staff was unable to demonstrate that line seeding on upland rice
could considerably improve yields over and above broadcasting.
4.10      Farmers, in developing their swamps however accepted all the main
innovations introduced by the project. For the most part, a large
percentage of the swamps developed under the project were not cultivated
before, because of water control difficulties. It is estimated that about
50% of the area that benefitted from land development works under the
project was not cultivated before the project. In general therefore the
technical packsge for swamp development represented a new introduction
leading to improved yields r d better control of the production system and
was therefore accepted. One other innovation not included at the outset in
the project but that began to appear in 1984, involved some farmers
abandoning shifting cultivation and beginning to settle on their swamps.
These farmers use the hillsides next to their swamps for cultivating their
upland crops and do not move to new areas each year as is customary.
4.11      The two most important technical innovations introduced by the
project have been the new seed variety (LAC 23) that has virtually replaced
most of the traditional varieties in the project area and beyond, and the
introduction of simple, inexpensive land improvements for better water
control using family labor and local materials (except in rare instances).
The project has also helped expand the use of fertilizer, which was unknown
to most farmers in the area and expanded the techniques of transplanting
and line seeding in swamps which were practicas only on a small scale.
V. FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC RESULTS
A.   Farmer Incomes
5.01      Farm budgets presented in the appraisal report show that average
farmer incomes should rise from 54 sylis per manday to 85 sylis per manday
for upland rice and from 94 sylis per manday to 146 sylis per man-day for



- 17 -
swampland rice after full development with output and inputs valued at
official prices. In practice, both input and output prices were hither
than those used at appraisal. Using the appraisal input and output prices
it is estimated that the income per manday for upland farmers did increase
from about 58 sylis to 151 sylis while income per manday for swamp
development increased from about 90 sylis per manday to 200 sylis per
manday. Using actual output prices obtained by farmers and actual input
prices paid by them it is estimated that their incomes per manday increased
from about 65 sylis for upland and 160 sylis for swamp rice in the without
project situation to an average of 340 sylis for upland and 510 sylis for
swamp rice by the end of the project.
5.02      Three main factors account for the higher than anticipated farmer
incomes.  First, yields for upland rice were about 20% higher than
estimated at appraisal. Second the relaxation in official marketing rules
and the "liberalization" process that started in l081 permitted farmers to
sell their output on the parallel market at higher than official prices.
Finally, though input prices were higher than the appraisal estimates,
these prices were still kept artificially low to the farmer because of the
over-valuation of the syli. These input prices did not involve any subsidy
at the official exchange rate but the overvalued currency made the cost
very low compared to the output price the farmer obtained on the parallel
market.
B.   Economic Reevaluation
5.03      At appraisal, the project's economic rate of return was estimated
only for the pilot component of the project at 12.8%. Costs included all
direct pilot project costs but excluded technical assistance costs *hat had
been imputed to the national ONADER component. Family labor was valued at
50 sylis per manday based on on-farm earnings and on wages paid to hired
labor. All local costs were adjusted to border prices using a conversion
factor of 0.5 to reflect the existence of import tariffs and quantitative
import restriction. Benefits were calculated based on production from
upland and swamp rice of participating farmers and included some benefits
assumed from the release of excess improved seed from the seed
multiplication farm to farmers outside the project. The appraisal report
however did not make explicit the area to be covered or the total level of
production expected from the seed release, though the net incremental value
of output used in the economic analysis is about 47% of the benefits
derived from participating farmers. This assumption of seed release has
been confirmed in practice whereby even farmers from the maritime region
have been known to have obtained seed from Gueckedou for planting. We do
not know however exactly what the size of the seed release has been.
5.04      The same cost categories have been included in the economic
reevaluation, including all actual ORG costs except for technical
assistance. Local costs have also been adjusted to border prices using a
conversion factor of 0.5, while all syli costs have been converted to
foreign exchange using the official exchange rates prevailing during the
execution period. Family labor was valued per manday at 100 sylis for
1981; 125 sylis for 1982 and 1983, and 150 sylis from 1984 onwards. The
latter figure is based on the prevailing parallel market wage in 1984.
5.05      Benefits have been calculated on the incremental production from
participating farmers. It is known that a number of the farmers
cultivating developed swamps have been double cropping. Thus the analysis



- 18 -
includes double cropping rates of 5% for 1983; 10% for 1984 and 15% from
1985 onwards. Benefits from seed release are included assuming that some
seed was distributed outside the project from the seed farm as well as by
farmers directly. The area cultivated from seed released through the
project is assumed to be equivalent to about 60% of the upland and swamp
areas covered under the project from PY4. Net yield increments from seed
release are assumed at 150 kg/ha for upland and 200 kg/ha for swamp rice.
This gives an additional production equivalent to about 12% of the
production from project participants compared to about 46% assumed at
appraisal.
5.06      Based on the above assumptions and using the latest World Bank
EPD price projections for rice and fertilizer to estimate farmgate prices,
the economic rate of return (ERR) has been reestimated at 10.9%, compared
to 12.8% at appraisal. The lower ERR is due mainly to the fall in actual
and projected world market rice prices since appraisal, and the fact that
we have used a far lower seed release rate than assumed at appraisal.
Without the benefits from seed release (para 5.05) the ERR falls to 8.6%
compared to 5.9% at appraisal. Maintaining all our assumptions but using
appraisal forecast prices the rate of return would have increased to 16.6%.
Including all costs and benefits from the follow-up project the rate of
return is estimated at 17.5% compared to an estimate of 20.3% made at the
appraisal of the rice project.
VI. INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE
A.  Executing ARency
-6.01     Project implementation was carried out by ONADER, for the
national components and as supervising agency for the pilot project. The
latter was implemented by ORG. Both agencies were set up specifically for
implementing the project with the expectation that ONADER could eventually
become a rice sector planning and development agency for the country.
General project management was fair, but could have been better, especially
in ONADER where management inexperience and inefficiencies, a dearth of
trained national staff and a high turnover and sometimes inadequate
performance of the technical assistance staff limited its ability to do
much more than keep the project's field components going. Even in its
administration of the field level activities, poor planning and accounts
keeping as well as flawed financial administration made it difficult to
control costs, plan adequately for procurement and purchases as well as
follow up on funds available. The poor financial administration of ONADER,
and especially of its financial director and chief accountant towards the
end of the project led to significant overexpenditure (Annex 6-1). Most of
this overexpenditure was however made to prefinance activities of the
second phase Gueckedou project (para 3.23).
6.02      ONADER's role as a rice sector planning and coordinating unit was
limited, though it did facilitate the successful execution of the rural
incentives study and was instrumental in opening up contacts with
international agricultural research agencies. Apart from the lack of
trained and experienced staff at ONADER, one of the main reasons for
ONADER's inability to become an effective sector planning agency stemmed
from the absence of a clear dated program for such an activity. The
appraisal documents were quite vague in terms of the exact role ONADER was



- 19 -
expected to play as the Ministry of Agriculture's central planning and
coordination unit for rice development. Besides, the role of ONADER
vis-a-vis the Ministry's studies unit was not clarified. It was also not
evident that Government wanted ONADER, manned by expatriates, to have any
influence on developing rural sector strategy especially in a country where
practically all planning was done at the political level. ONADER itself,
before the change in Government in 1984, did not try to develop any program
for planning either rural or rice sector development and limited itself to
a few technical studies and administration of the field level activities of
the project. From mid-1984 however, ONADER started getting more involved
in the activities of the Ministry of Rural Development, especially in
socioeconomic studies, strategy development and investment review. From
this period, more autonomy was given to ORG in its activities. The
appraisal mission for the follow-up project recommended that full autonomy
be given to the Gueckedou project and hence ONADER be reintegrated into the
mainline Ministry. A separate project was appraised for a studies and
planning unit of MDR called a Bureau of Strategy and Development (BSD) to
include elements of ONADER and the then existing studies unit of the
Ministry.
6.03      Support services to farmers were provided satisfactorily by ORG.
The latter concentrated on reaching smallholders with advice and inputs and
though it was responsible for its technical activities, relied on ONADER
for procurement and account keeping of its foreign costs. This role of
financial management of ORG played by ONADER did not encourage ORG to be
cost conscious. Neither did it encourage ORG to be aware that forward
planning was important to be able to adequately follow all the procedures
governing procurement and purchases. This poor planning was responsible
for several conflicts between ORG and ONADER during the implementation. In
general however the performance of ORG was satisfactory. It was able to
gain the confidence of a large number of farmers and positively affect
their attitudes towards technical innovations. Despite operating under
difficult logistical conditions, its staff showed commitment and initiative
that contributed to the successful outcome of the pilot project.
6.04      The pilot ORG project was created as an independent unit working
separately from the regional administration of rural development. Lack of
operating funds and adequate training prevented the regional administration
from providing any services for farmers and the only farmer services in the
zone were those done by ORG. The structure therefore provided parallel
services for rural development with ORG, developing institutionally in
strength because of the project, while the regional rural development
service was neglected. The second phase Gueckedou project has therefore
merged ORG and the regional administration into one unit to execute the
follow-up project. This approach of strengthening the mainline services of
the Ministry of Rural Development and avoiding parallel structures
represents what we consider to be a more effective method of rural
development.
B.   Accounting and Financial Performance
6.05      One of the main problems that faced the project was in accounting
and financial management. The project had no provision for expatriate help
in accounting or financial management. Since the early supervision
missions however, it became clear that some help in accounting and
financial management was required. This resulted mainly from absence of
adequately trained staff and lack of experience of this staff. Short term



- 20 -
consultant visits did not ease the problem and in August 1982 an expatriate
financial manager was recruited for ONADER. This improved the situation
somewhat as far as purchases and procurement was concerned but accounting
and financial control procedures remained inadequate. This was partially
due to difficulties of the Guinean administration in accepting expatriate
assistance. Audits that were done by the Ministry of State Control
concentrated on accounting for the use of counterpart funds and hence was
not thorough enough in as far as foreign exchange accounting was concerned.
Even though ORG was operationally autonomous its foreign exchange accounts
were kept by ONADER which interpreted its role as executing agency for
procurement and purchases as including centralizing all foreign exchange
accounts. Information flow on financial transactions between ONADER and
ORG was therefore very weak.
6.06      As a result of the weaknesses in accounting and financial
management, the appraisal mission for the second phase project proposed an
external audit of project accounts and preparation of new financial control
and accounting procedures. Meanwhile a new expatriate financial manager
made projections of fund availability in May 1985 without taking into
account all earlier commitments. Thus orders were made from mid-1985 to
prepare for the second phase Gueckedou project (PAG) under the mistaken
impression that sufficient funds were available. Towards the end of 1985
it was realized that a serious overcommitment of funds had been done and
that funds had been used to prefinence, and commitments made, for PAG based
on Rice Project funds that were exhausted. Current estimates put the
overcommitment at close to the equivalent of US$1,150.000. Since most of
this expenditure was used to prepare for PAG, Government has asked the
Bank, which has given its agreement, to finance the most part of the over-
expenditure under the PAG project. Details on the background and financial
situation of the project after completion are given in Annex 6.
C.   Trainina
6.07      The project included a sizable provision for training
fellowships. Most of the key staff in ONADER, ORG and the two research
stations benefitted from this training program that .ncluded short term and
medium term fellowships. Thus despite the shortage of adequately trained
and experienced staff, the project's training fellowship program has served
the dual purpose of upgrading expertise and broaderning horizon for a large
number of the staff. With the introduction of the training and visit
system of extension, several orientation courses were organized for ORG
staff and the T&V's continuous training program provides a realistic method
of achieving adequate standards in extension.
D.   Government Performance
6.08      Government took an active part in project pieparation and its
policy decision during appraisal to rethink its state farm approach to
rural development influenced the final project design (para 2.03). During
the first four years of project implementation, Government did give a
reasonable degree of autonomy to project management, despite its strong
centralized and socialist approach to development. There were continual
difficulties for the Guinean administration in accepting and working with
technical assistance staff and hence the latter, especially those put in
ONADER, had little impact in improving general management procedures or
helping in rice sector planning. Government commitment to the project
appeared quite strong especially for the pilot component, despite some



- 21 -
initial opposition during appraisal and early supervision. One of the key
risks envisaged at appraisal, for example, concerned Governmnt
interference in produce marketing. In reality, no attempt was made to have
farmers market their produco officially and they were able to sell a large
part of their output on the parallel market. Though there were some delays
in the release of its counterpart funds, Government continually increased
funds made available to the project with the result that the final
Government contribution was an estimated 39Z of total project costs
compared to a provision of 271. The high annual allocations to the project
in a country where the Hinistry of Agriculture itself received only funds
for salary payments represented a high degree of Government commitment.
Finally bised on the perceived results of the pilot ORG project, even the
Sekou Toure regime came to accept the project as a viable and an attractive
alternative to the collective farming model that it had been promoting.
The only area where some doubts existed as far as Government comituent was
concerned was the extent to which it accepted ONADER as a central planning
and coordination unit for rice sector development (para 6.02).
E.  Bank Performance
6.09      During project preparation and appraisal, the Bank was quite
successful in convincing Government of the need to put emphasis on what it
regarded and still regards as Guinea's key resource in the rural sector,
smallholder agriculture. It was therefore able to make a significant
inroad on developing the sector, despite its willingness initially to
include some collective farms in the project.
6.10      Bank supervision missions took place about twice a year and
because of the novel nature of the project for the Guineans, these missions
became important "technical assistance" missions for the project. In
general the missions were able to address key technical and management
problems in a productive manner and missions were able to make an important
contribution to the project's technical success, especially the pilot
project. The missions were however not always successful in getting
project management to focus on key aspects of the project such as forward
planning, procurement and financial management. The Bank underestimated
the complexity of the financial management problems the project was likely
to have. Thus no provision was made for example at appraisal, for
expatriate help in financial management. Neither was a provision made for
external audits of project funds. Supervision missions also concentrated
for the most part on technical and administrative issues and did not
include financial analysts to review accounting and financial procedures.
A more active supervision of the accounting and financial situat_ n could
have prevented the overcommitment of funds made in the project.
VII. SPECIAL ISSUE
A.   Political and Macro-economic Climate
7.01      The general political and macro-economic clirmate under which the
project was implemented was extremely difficult. The centralized political
system whereby party stalwarts were more powerful than administrators put a
lot of pressure on managers in general and especially those with access to
funds and goods in a system where shortages were everywhere. Because of a



- 22 -
bloated civil service and a considerably overvalued currency 1/ salaries
paid to civil servants represented, on the average, only enough funds for
one week family expenditure. Thus civil servants were forced to find a way
of complementing their salaries. This in general resulted in a lot of
absenteeism from work, attempts to circumvent procedures, and pilferialg
where staff had access to goods that could be soli. In general therefore,
when there are projects in the country the margin of "loss" of project
inputs was quite high. The Rice Development Project had its share of
problems, but perhaps remained the best of its kind in the country of using
goods and inputs for their intended purpose, especially because of the
Government commitment to the project (para 6.08).
7.02      While a large part of the physical objectives, especially in the
pilot ORG project were achieved, the costs have been higher than they
should have been if the project had been executed under "normal"
circumstances. The situation was not helped by conditions under the Sekou
Toure regime when politicians demanded inputs (especially fuel, equipment
and vehicle use) from project management. The latter, for fear of possible
political reprisals sometimes acceded to the politicians' demands even
though Bank missions actively complained when such incidents came to their
notice. The macro-political situation explains in part the difficulties
project management had in exercising effective control over expenditures
and why some of the recommendations of Bank missions concerning improved
accounting and financial management and control were not implemented by
project management.
7.03      The follow-up project, though aware that the macro-economic
situation would continue to be poor for some time rejected the solution of
insulating project staff from the general economic situation by eithEr
increasing their salaries or giving them high allowances, since such a
system would not be practical or replicable. General salary levels have
been doubled since the end of the project but still remain not high enough.
IDA together with the IMF and other donors are working actively to improve
the general macro-economic climate and at the same time seeking to reduce
the number of civil servants so that reasonable salaries could be paid to
those remaining.
1/   Parallel market exchange rate as of the end of project completion was
about 12 times the official rate and most transactions took place .n
the parallel market while salaries were based on the official exchange
rate.
WAPA A
June 1987



- 23 -
W01EX 1-1
6UlNlih
RICE DE.ELOPHENI PROIJELI
COMPLETION REPOkI
IProject Lost b. Lateaoru and oy tear
(1U1.! bvL141
I9BV     1981      1082      1983     1984      1985  uVt' 8':Il5    Uvt I
Lonstruction               I      44.4  W4aoM.9   5146.9  48011.2  40427.9   2693.3    1135B.5    484u.!
tauipaent *Veh. + Spares  I   b963.1  19728.r  22347.1  20725.8  42187.5  49998.4    1b1951.4    7007.3
fertilizer  1             1                                8218.9   1895.8   9872.8        19987.5     874.7
S
Kesident T.a               t   S142.3  12050.0  16698.9  16529.1  14424.5  25162.4         88007.2    3851.3
Lonsultents + Fellowships *   7672.8   5802.5   1770.4   3710.5   9475,3   8420.0          36951.6    1612.7
Fuel + Lubricants          t    348.1   5079.2  13180.6  17901.6  16078.8  17893.2          70481.5    3084.4
ialaries                   I       M.,  2948.3   8892.9   8512.1  13675.0   7855.9         41885.3    1833.0
Other Ooer. Costs          t    912.5   4484.0   5098.1   7865.6   4866.7   9918.6         33145.5    1450.5
- -  -     _ _  -_      -  -    -------  ----   ________- -----            ______
I0TAL                 1  19085.0  64155.6  73134.8 131474.8 143031.6 131914.6    562696.5   24624.6
       :==-s:::  ==s:ss~ ==_==su =ssss=tsu :            :==-    :::
1; Fertilizer costs shown tar 1983 include savsents for 1982.
NAPA t    23-Jun-87



- 24 -
SUIBEw       K
RICE DEVELOPNEWI PfWELI
CWKIPIEION REp0II
Project Lost Sv btation
I'Ouu SiL16i
forM.
OWADEk 1:    lb       kDw      BARU       ltleL     u0f  I
Lonstruction               t      2118.4  83715.6    358.2    194.3   110386.5    483u.i
Eauspment *YVh. * Spares          ; 34759.7 120047.2   2972.7   4171.8   161951.4    7087.3
fertilizer  21             t                19987.5                       19987.5      974.7
Resident r .                      45120.   42866.5       0.0       u.(u   88007.2    3851.3
Consultants + Fellowsh1Ps I       31i68.v(  5183.9      26.8      33.v    36851.6    1612.7
Fuel * Luoricants                 lOto.3  59682.1    712.6   Iu60.a    704S1.5    3084.4
Salaries                           1133.o  37/72.3   1347.3  iW32.2    41805.3    1833.0
nither Ouer. Lasts         *      1i749.o  12480.2    3u1.8    W13.M    33145.5    1450.5
IOIAL               U      1&855c.3 38u675.1   5719.3   1705.7   562696.5   24624.6
3   , ===5=SS: 5:=::zzS    ==       =   ::  ==S=====   =55==
11 In sooe cases it is ispossible troo available inteorttion to cowoletelv break down
the costs per Station. thus most of the costs for Consultants and iellowships and
kesident Iechnical Assistance have been imputed to ONADER even thouah all the
Stations benetitted trom these.
2/ All fertilizer costs have been umouted to OR6. but Baro and Koba did use some fertilizer.
'- MI
WNfA h.   i3-JUII-97



-  25  -                  ;W( 3-5
RICE DKEELJPNE  Pk0JELI
COIPLETIOb REP0RI
Pinancim  at Pro!Qct Looontnts
1AiM                  ot F                iOVERIhENT               TOTAL COST
a          ---          t        - ---          a           -          a         
I aoprais. Est. Actual Sdpprais. Est. Actual SIeuprais. Est. h4ctual IDoorais. Est. Actual I
---  ----- ---              --
I                       a                       t                      I                       t
kuashbt.  ualciss. boaeus and          I                        I                       I                      I                      
uthmr Inputs tEscl. FertillIzr)        t    lub4.   153.2    t                         I       .      41.E    I   108.0    195.0    t
Fertilizer                                    IU.9     1.0           10.0      10.4          2.0       l.v    I    1. 6      20.0    S
vuJinmq and Construction               *                        t    44.u      42.0    1    14.0       I.o; o       56.0    110.4    a
Kssidnt [echnical ossistance           I     2u.0      37.5    1    44.0       50.5    1                            a 4.u     98.0    I
Fullouships & Consultants              t     42.0      3b9   I                          a                           42.0    3U.9    I
fuel and Lubricants                    1      40.0      0.0    I                       t    40.0      i( 5    1       . _ (i.I    70.5    I
Local Salaries                         S                                               I 1    5.00    41.;    1    50.u       41.9    1
3    ---                                  -         -----    -----    I   _-_    ____    I
IOTAL                       I.  208.u    237.6    1    98.0    103.3    t   114.0 d        21.E    t   12v.0 5O 2,7    t
- --- -  -   -          - - - - - -- - --                            --- -
WAP A      23-Jun-87



-  26  -                                     MNEA  3-4
6UI*m
RICE DEVELOPNENT PROJECI iCREDII 95M-OUt
-----------------------------_-----------
COIPLEtION REPObI
Scheule of Iflsursmpts
IDA         ORIGINAL    PROFILE    ACTUAL TOTAL           REVISED        ACIUAL       AClUnL
FINANIAL   ESTIMATE    ESTIMATE  DISDURSENENTS          OUARTILES       AS I OF      AS t OF
VEAR           *tOO)         $OQO       $ 000             *00          ORIGINAL      PROFILE
Ft 90 1
1         300          104              0               0             9            0
3         50i%,                                         0  
4         Bo0          520            390             390            49           75
Ft S1 I         lUvw                        614             224            5b,
2        1400         1248            711              97            51           57
3        18tiv                       1102             391            61
4        2300         2184           1452             350            63           @8
Fi 82 1         34uO                       193v             478            64
1        3!970        3120          3134             i204            85          100
3        44vv                       3285              151            75
4        510et        4264          3464              179            68           B1
Fr 63 1         50vv                       387i             o43             ob
2        6400         5408           3990             173            62           74
3        loot                        4154             174            59
4        7600         6552          4716              562            62           72
Ft 94 1         8lov                       5076             360             63
2        8b00          7592          561S             540            65           74
3        910V                       5765              IE9            63
4        9500         8424           6174             409            65           ;1
FY 85 1         99ou                       6321              141            t4
2       10200         9152          6750              429            66           74
3       IV4Ov                        6936             18o            61
4       IV4Vv         9776           7419             483            71           la
F: 8o  1                                   9841            142             85
1                     U1092         9614              773            92           94
3                                  10255              641            99
4                    10400         10400              145           IoU           tt
board Date:09-18-1979 : Siqninq Date:11-02-1979:
Eftective Date:04-14-198vu OraInal Ciosin4 Date:06-30-1985.
Closno Date :06-30-198k.
s,x "      3-Jun-8;



-  27 -                         .  4
RICE QEVELOPIIEI PROJECI tCFELlT 4S5-tubi
PROJECT CONLEIIOh FE OW
lee Indicators
"F 2 048,              Pi 3 IISSI           PI 4 ,ICa               FP  5 lIOJ                p  a  19icS
unit   moor    Actual  I   tepr.    ketual  I   Mtor.    wctua.  :.  wear.    .:tua1   I 2              Aor.  * tual
t*L,ttt RILE
uuessr ot Fasilies             no.       JuV     zut    ;9   110u?   1135    e7   2hun           A:    e8    21:u    !11   II2   2700           5:32    1'4
.we  Dor Fastilv               hi.       1.5      1.;    8e      1.5      1.2    bU     1.5      1..     S7i'   1.5    l.;Q      8U    1.5    1.24        1
wre  halnted  I I              Ht.    lt'        24t    43   .55u       Io62    53   405v    25b'    o4                   1 'cl3    r9   4050    6276    15'
fsItima      tied l          KO.: Ha.   94v     IQLQ    III    9Wv      N5U    1I    12531,v 1.5'   1'V   1.52u         i5vu   120   1250       15v-:c
froduCtion                    Ions      '45       '4t    25   2295      1713    74   Svo3    32'4    64   Sub           5420   107   503        4418    ti,
SNIl KYELOSIEII  c
.__ ___________
tumbir Dt Famlies              NtO.      Vt         4      1   170v       124      i   27uu      4tZ.    le   21vv J      1 .    23   2700      '97
wra c.r Paoijv                 Ha.      V.5      U.5   It       u   V.          1 1      7I 5    u...   144 IU   ' 5    V.E3    16    lv.5    u.82      104
"rca Utievused  3              ha.        u               - _     u    14.5       -    4v    Mul.5    75 iS              sit    73    700        o5D      i
froduction tros lve.  ria  lo's            V        5      -      u       12      -   lutV       '4     7    Ilstl    144o    79   1820    21e.I    11:
Aria LUltivatlt                Ha.      35u         i      1    dSv     74.5      9   1350   318.1    .4   1 5)          501    42   1350        '51      5:
Estimated  ield               a. 'Ha.  17Qr    I5uv    147   1794    231ut  129   2251t    235"   1W4   i3bv    258u   109   23v                Yo6u    1_.
roduction                     Ions      595         5      1   1525      172    It   3038        *48    25   318.    1440    45   316           21c2      o9
SEED IUL1 IPLICAI lIMe
Uoland iSu d first             Ha.         -              -       -       ;V      -       -       '2      -    3uu       Iov    53    300         9v      3u
Production tUoland,  4*    ion             - s             -      -        77      -       -      7       -    39u       lIu    31    390         ov      1S
waap tS  d Farml               Ha.        -      S.5      -       -         4     -       -      5,;      -       -        5      _       _        4
Production  smisaol           Ions         -       .4     -       -      C..      -       -    Iv.S       -       -       I       -       -     le.        -
ieen Farmrs iLlotandl  5,  ha.            -                                                                              155      -       -      342
ueed Farurs tlwamp'            ha.        -                                                                       -       u       -       -      too
Seed tthners %SuppIVl         Ions        -                                                                               it)v
treated Seed  o               'Otos                   -        -      -       -        -          -               -    95.5       -      -       69
FEEDER ROAD PR06RAM
ethatalitated Roads            Ka.        -        -              -    18.5       -       -   118.5       -      o3   247.5   393       43   247.5    i1S
koads laintaxned               IL.                                --    3i.                               -       -   13a.5       -       -   194.5        -
INPUT OlSTRIDUT1lN
1 P k                         tons        -         -     -       -      llo      -       -      125      -       -   j3f,        - 7-          3.2        -
urea                          tork- -                                             -       -       4               -    42.4/      -       -     14.8       -
Suseronosonate                lons        -         -     -       -         -     -       -        -      -       -               -       -      4, 7
beei  iUoland,                Ions        -         -     -       -         4     -       -       oe      -       -    44.t       -       -    91.4t
beta Icas-fonod               tons        -        -      -       -        2      -       -        5      -       -      x.2      -       -    11.7
DthSOTES
-     eans data not available.
I   represents a cumulative tuotre ot upland rice area touiche  bv the prolect 1teea * tertnltxer  alstribution.or only *ertuii:ert.
u1es 0 aO  Include tu rurs wto  av heve receivee Seed tro  trioends and relatusE.
i ' voraisal taroet was to touch the Safe nume r ot tarsers as tor upland rnce. eowveer ontv 4*V ha ot swaland
tuiiolkltoo 6u4  tmilesi was expected to Oe developed ov Pi 4 e19831 and 7uo ha 11.4ev +4013eS'! de.eloued by PT 5  tIt':
Ine row 'area Cultivated' reoresents tor bporasatl arei expected to be toucued includina that not developed bat espect.: to
use improved seed and tertilazert tctual wrea CultivateG represents area develonid ano cuttivated including
dounie-croopang. Ihe protect did not mnitor non-denvlOpid swamps that sav ha-e used improved seed or fertilizer.
4   Ine actual area developed represent seamps in various stanes ot development with tnose tulle doeveloed represmntie
about 551 in 1985.
S   tields on the seen taro have been u rv disappointino averanino about 750 koiha uo to 198S.For 1985 gross Yield  as
* 43u kacba witl  good sed about 331ig/ha.
o    new program started ITT 1934 to supplement production tros project seed tire.
Seed treatment plant was finished in April 1984 and treated 85 tons of upalad rice  Meold- SOl1 afid 1U.9 tons Ot swamt
'sIb. .1     23-Jun-67



*|61 5-1
RICE KVELIOIPE   PIWECt iLr. 95t*Wi
CtWLE1IIM REPORI
EcoaSitc Couts anW BmWits  (SPSiot lroect)
'uwv US of
lBIl    1982      193      19B4    1985      199b      1997     1988     1989 1990-2000
(PV 1)   (P1 21   IPV 31   iPT 4)   (P1 5)   (Pt 8?   iPt 7,    Py BS   (Pt 9  tPft 10-20
POBELI LUIb
A. astral Louts
LoI1trCtlofl                       139.4    118.1   170v.1    847.u    100.0
Vehcles. Equip. & Soares           579.7   1117.7    U0.7   1458.4   1305.9       94.5     94.5     94.5    94.5        94.5
fuel and Lubricants                 d1.1    222.5   324.0    290.9   353.9        35.1     35.1     35.1     35.1       35.1
].A. Stuien & Iraminio               l.U       M.      U   0.4   Q. 0     U.U
Operatins Costs                     84.o    131.4    244.1    299.4    246.4      61.8     bl.8     61.9     61.8       61.8
blb-lotal                   '84.1   1888.3  2928.9  2685.8   2004.0    191.3    191.3   191.3    191.3         191.3
Intlation Index                    1.052    1.030    I.UI    0.993    I.u0u
Central Costs (1965 Prices)        935.4   1626.5   2800.9  290b.1   2006.0    191.3   191.3    191.3    191.3         191.3
B. On Fare Costs: 1985 Prices
Fertilizer                                                                       287.2    287.b   299.5    312.3    330.3
luglesents                                                                        79.5     79.5     79.5     79.5      7y.5
Farm Labor                           u.S      B.u     23.2    42.4       68.2    b8.2      b8.2     b8.2    68.2       68.2
sab-rotal                     u.5      8.0     23.2    42.4    68.2    435.0   435.4   447.2   460.1           478.1
iotal PrOJeKt Costst:        Prices   938.0   1634.5  2824.0  2948.5  2074.3   628.3   628.7   638.5   851.4          MM.4
PROJECT KNIEFItsi 1985 PRICES
A. Upland Rice                         32.v    228.2    554.4    910.9  1258.9   1104.9   1097.0   1118.7  1160.2    1223.3
B.  aSe kice                            1.8     41.4    175.5    328.8   447.2    392.4    309.6   398.b    412.1        434.5
C. Saud Rlease (let)                    o.0      0.0      0.0    110.1   184.1    144.0    143.u    !45.8    151.3        159.5
UPlan  Rice                          V.v      0.0      0.0     91.2    141.6    124.3    123.4    125.8    130.5       137.6
Ws     Rice                          U.0      o.u    f0d        19.9    22.5      19.7     19.6     2U.U    20.7       21.9
lotal knetits: 1995 Prices          33.6    269.5    729.9   1247.6   1870.2   1641.3   1429.8  1658.9  1723.6    1917.3
Net Bnefits: 1985 Prices          1902.3uu1,364.9112.094.2)(1.700.7i  (204.1) 1,015.0  1.002.9  1,020.3  1,072.2   1,148v,
IlE: 1981 was tht tirst vear ot thr pilot proJect and It Is taken theretore as Pt 1.
Fertilizer and uepleont costs for 1981-95 are included in the Central Project Costs.
PA  A         I ';



- 29 -
Annex 6
Page 1 of 4 pages
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
RICE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 952-GUI)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Financial Situation after Project Completion
Background
1.        The Guinea Rice Development Project (Cr. 952-GUI) started in
April 1980 was co-financed by IDA and the African Development Fund (AfDF).
It was completed in December 1985. At completion it became apparent that
funds had been overcommitted. Current estimates put the overcomuitment at a
total of about US$1,150,000 equivalent.
2.        Technical assistance (TA) was included in the project for both
ONADER and ORG for planning, extension, research, rural engineering, and
workshop maintenance. This TA was provided by two firms in a Partnership,
Euroconsult and Louis Berger. The project, however, had no provision for
technical assistance help in financial management, neither did it have any
provision for annual external audits. The audits were to be done by the
Ministry of State Control. Quite early in the project (mid-1981) it was
realized that back-up help in financial management would be necessary. Thus
the consulting Group was asked to provide short term missions for financial
management which they did. A supervision mission of July 1982, however
concluded that the short term visits were not enough to improve account
keeping and especially to help ONADER overcome procurement difficulties. The
mission therefore prwoposed the recruitment of a resident expatriate
financial administrator for two years. This financial administrator was to
be supplied by the consulting Group providing TA on the basis that they
would provide adequate back-up for, and control of, his work. He was
appointed in the last quarter of 1982. Audits, however continued to be done
by the Ministry of State Control.
3.        The accounting and financial management situation improved a-.'
Government audit for the following year did not signal any major problems.
The preliminary project preparation report for the second phase project
issued in March 1984 as well as the final report of September 1984  also did
not mention any problems. An IDA supervision mission in May 1984 as well as
a mid-year review by the Ministry of State Control reported problems in
forward planning and internal control. During appraisal of the second phase
project in October/November 1984, when a thorough review was done of
accounting practices and financial management systems it became clear that
major problems with project accounting had developped and that the audit
reports prepared by the Ministry of State Control were not as thorough or
as detailed as they should have been. Accounting and financial control
procedures were found to be poor, all project orders and purchases were
done by the supply department of ONADER, but there was no filing systme to
clearly identify or follow up on outstanding or partially completed orders,
and supplier invoices were not recorded upon receipt in an invoice register.



- 30 -
Annex 6
Page 2 of 4 pages
The appraisal mission therefore proposed an external audit of project
accounts and preparation and implementation of appropriate procedures for
accounting, financial management and internal controls.
4.        The audit was completed in April 1985 and confirmed the accounting
shortcomings observed by the appraisal mission. The auditors made
recommendations on improving these and proposed new procedures for
accounting, financial control and an improved system for ordering and
purchasing items as well as following up on them. It should be noted that
even though the pilot Gueckedou project (ORG) operated as a technically
separate entity from ONADER, its financial management was done and its
foreign exchange accounts kept by ONADER. Thus ORG kept only accounts on
local expenditures and had no accounts on foreign expenditures. Accounts for
the research stations in Baro and Koba were also kept by ONADER. ORG and the
research stations therefore relied exclusively on ONADER for their
purchases. For ORG, a liaison office set up in Conakry towards the end of
1984 was to follow up on orders and purchases. For better control of ORG
orders and accounts, the appraisal mission proposed the recruitment of a
financial director for ORG, in addition to the financial director of ONADER.
5.        During the second phase appraisal, the mission recommended that
the Gueckedou project become an autonomous project- the Gueckedou
Agricultural Development Project (PAG), and that the ONADER Planning Unit be
merged with the Studies Unit of the Ministry of Agriculture to form what is
now called the Bureau of Strategy and Development (BSD) under a separate
project.
Evolution after the Second Phase Appraisal
6.        Just after the appraisal, the financial manager of ONADER resigned
and was replaced by a new one by the Consulting Group. Around the same time
estimates showed that funds under the AfDF credit would not be enough to
cover the part of TA financed by the AfDF from July to December 1985, the
expected date of project completion. There were, according to the available
information, enough funds under the IDA credit to cover these. IDA agreed
therefore, at the request of Government in February 1985, to amend its
Credit Agreement to finance, from July 1985, 100% of Technical Assistance
instead of the 33% it had been financing. AfDF however paid its share of the
TA in July and September 1985 and the August bill was also sent by the
Consultant Group to AFDF. This was done apparently because the Consulting
Group had not submitted bills for earlier months that should have been paid
by AfDF and hence in AfDF accounts funds were still available for these
three months.
7.        Following the recommendations of the appraisal mission, the
Ministry of Agriculture created BSD about June 1985. A director was
appointed for BSD who was given administrative responsibility for ONADER.
The Minister asked the expatriate financial director of the project to
ensure financial administration.
8.        The first IDA supervision mission after the appraisal was in April
1985. The mission was assured by the ONADER financial manager that even
though the auditors had not finished their work in proposing new procedures,
the accounting systems and ordering and purchasing procedures had been



- 31 -          Annex 6
Page 3 of 4 pages
considerably improved. This was also confirmed to an IDA post-appraisal
mission for the First Agricultural Services Project, in early June 1985. The
financial manager informed the Ministry, ORG, and various IDA missions that
after taking into account payments made and commitments, funds available
under the IDA Credit as of end June 1985, would be about US$ 2.5 million.
This, as it turned out, was a false projection because the records were
incomplete and did not show all the earlier commitments and these had not
been taken into account (Para 11).
9.        Based on the ONADER projections and because there was a likelihood
of some delay, especially on the AfDF side, in preparing the second phase of
the Gueckedou project, the management of Gueckedou asked to purchase a
number of needed equipment, vehicles, and spare parts under the available
credit 1,.  Thus a number of new orders were made between July and October
1985 for which downpG.yments of about 40% were paid using funds from the Rice
Development Project. Some of these items had been included in the
investnent budget for the Gueckedou Project.
10.       The second IDA supervision mission for the Rice Project after the
appraisal was in October 1985. The financial director of ONADER informed the
mission at the time that after taking into account commitments to end 1985,
the credit available would be about US$ 800,000. Government therefore
requested the misision for a six month. extension of the completion date to
June 1986. The mission bowever asked ONADER/BSD and the Gueckedou Project
(PAG) to prepare a table showing the credit amount disbursed, commitments
including IDA covering 100% of TA, and a budget for the balance. This
financial situation and budget was to be sent to WAPA A by mid-November. A
mission to Abidjan in mid-November by the director of BSD, the financial
director and accountant of ONADER, and the chief of the project's Th team,
informed IDA that contrary to the initial claims made by the financial
director of fund availability under the credit, the funds had been seriously
overcommitted.
11.       The main problems that led to the over committment was poor
record-keeping by the expatriate financial administrator on funds committed.
Delays of one year and over in submitting bills by certain suppliers, and a
lack of proper recording of these outstanding bills gave the impression
that funds were available when in fact these funds had already been
committed. Thus even the audit report for end 1985, released in February
1987, was not able to record all the outstanding bills.
12.       The Minister of Rural Development set up a commission in September
1986 to analyze the financial situation of ONADER. The commission analyzed
all orders and purchases in 1985, and reviewed all bills received as of end
October 1986. The commission worked without the audit report and financial
statements as of end December 1985 since the auditors had withheld the
audit report because of a misunderstanding regarding their contract for the
work. This dispute was only settled in January 1987, when the auditors
released the report.
1/   AfDF did not appraise the project until September 1985, one and a half
months after the IDA Credit had been negotiated.



-32 -
Annex 6
Page 4 of 4 pages
13.       The total of all outstanding bills recorded by the commission
amounted to the equivalent of about US$1,150,000 using exchange rates
prevailing at the end of November 1986. Of the total outstanding debt
about US$465,850 is owed to the consulting group, Euroconsult-Louis Berger,
responsible for providing technical assistance to the project.
Prefinancing of PAG and BSD
14.       As indicated in para 9, a number of items including vehicles,
equipment, fertilizer and spare parts were purchased towards the completion
of the Rice Project that have been used exclusively in the Gueckedou
project. Some of these purchases have been completely paid for and
delivered, using funds from the rice project. For the year 1986, which
corresponds to the first project year for PAG, the project was able to
continue its activities due largely to these purchases that were delivered
towards the end of 1985 and in early 1986. It should be noted that the PAG
Credit was signed on December 27, 1985 but did not become effective until
end October 1986, thus even though the Credit Agreement does not envisage
retroactive financing there is a case to be made for financing some of the
over-expenditure under the PAG.
15.       While Government remains responsible for this cost overrun, one
could argue strongly that a large part of the overrun was not necessarily
on Credit 952 but came about as a result of preparation activities for the
two follow-up projects. It is unfortunate that the expatriate financial
manager gave a mistaken situation of funds available up until mid-November
1985, about one week before Board presentation, and hence the follow-up
projects made no provision either for PPF financing or for retroactive
financing. Since various items acquired however helped at least the PAG to
successfully function during 1986 when the various credits were not
effective, we could consider this as a bridging financing and hence permit
their payment under PAG while making sure that such a situation is not
repeated. IDA has therefore agreed to finance most of the overexpenditure
under the PAG project. The incidence on PAG would not be as serious as it
appears since most of the acquisitions made in the last quarter of 1985,
had already been included in the budget for the second phase project and
would no longer be bought.



NOTU
L



MAP SECTION



__________________________                                                                                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IND 14163*1
TO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
g| > . ~~~~S E N  E G
MAI . NIGEPR j "AD)le 
0M'Tk-3nedit 0 P;"J 5 ;5 PEHib!iv t fo._mosi~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Feesse 
T  ti"Telinile M~~~~~~~ORSTIDEI$   /                                                                                                                        / t   
A~~~~~~~~~~~~~
~~N[G;A'                                                                                                                  IC
Z 5AIRE TIME %)`           0jtJDARAY8(-,A0UAL C                        T      R.             S       5     t          (   JNX         9      ) 
O c e a f;   CONAKRYt $ SrEh f  C                                                    Y AKA /T t    A As ) TO gu                     liquir
RICE~~~~~~ DEiLngNuirnta                                                                                                                                                               f>J 
|  |  Pnd _Ni4_f * 20 40 ,O EO W0i * S ng                        \                              /                           *N
t    lour    MILES    0   L    I   B   E   R  I  A  .>g NZerek ( ( v~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~....                    o  ik S
.  ^_  &bf  _1"@                                              -                                                                          I              /     *Lml
| ,, .s, ,. r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~abolS  r



IBRD 14164R
a0er                                                  Iear
l~~~~~~~~~
Tinkb                  Ken im
Af 
BADALA                            0
KIESSANE
GUINEA
RICE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
GUECKEDOU PILOT PROJECTAREA
/                       ~~~~~~~~~* Project Hseduaru
GUELO  PRL Locacons
-WAAY   IrMain Roo&
40'                                                                        -     Road for Upading
Maln Rwu,
Main Tributwy Strewms
- -*-   Inmantioni Boundisy
SOI5tXUI1        dMKILOMFtS
Ban   sK DgdWo                         AW                                  d    r
-                      Sector              - G-U N>ADINA      Tol wow g;  &.Cm<
fp fl eou*" to
Y E < .J J %      \~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 li ww do~\   oa '*.o
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ew o. is L=eV Ir B               ,               tIER
Pailg~ of TMe VA.* a88
G=                                                      &*m~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~tWn FOwme C0PWurft%
of NW Imaly oNWV
onwo..int o sacspnoe of
HEIREAKON          BWAO                 Jftw
'-CjlEA    GUINEA~.f f       KI
-LO
LIBERHEREAKON
-ew  LIBERIA ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~(IB~II
MAY 1988



