Document of
The World Bank  FL    vOY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 2389-GtIt
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
RICE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
August 17, 1979
Regional Projects Department
West Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit  =   Syli
US$1.00        =   20 Syli
Syli 1.00      =   US$0.05
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
LISTS OF ABBREVIATIONS
ADF      -   African Development Fund
BGCE     -   Banque Guineenne du Commerce Exterieur
BMP      -   Brigade Mecanisee de Production
BNDA     -   Banque Nationale de Developpement Agricole
CGR      -   Commissariat General de la Revolution
ERC      -   Entreprise Regionale de Commerce
IITA     -   International Institute for Tropical Agriculture
IRAT     -   Institut de Recherche Agricole Tropicale
ONADER   -   Operation Nationale pour le Developpement de la
Riziculture
ORG      -   Operation Riz Gueekedou
PPF      -   Project Preparation Facility
PRL      -   Pouvoir Revolutionnaire Local
WARDA    -   West Africa Rice Development Association
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



GUINEA                FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
APPRAISAL OF A RICE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.   BACKGROUND ..............................................    1
A. Project Objectives.                                             1
B.   Country Characteristies and Economic Performance              1
C. The Agricultural Sector.                                       2
D.   Institutions:  Administrative Structure.                      4
Agricultural Education.                      4
Agricultural Research.                      5
Agricultural Extension.                     5
E.   The Pilot Project Area:  Location and Physical               5
Characteristics.                 5
Soils, Vegetation and Crops Grown.                   6
Farming Systems.                                     7
Land Tenure.                                         9
II. THE PROJECT .9
A. Project Description                     .9
B.   Detailed Features ..................................        il
1. The National Components:
ONADER   ......................................     il
Applied Agricultural Research ....       ...........   il
Upper Guinea Project Preparation Study ......  13
Agricultural Pricing Study ....        ..............   13
2. The Pilot Project:
Technical Packages ..........................   14
Seed Multiplication .........................   16
Land Engineering Works ......................  18
Field  Trials   ................................    19
Extension Service ...........................  19
Access Roads ................................   19
Rice Hullers ................................   19
III.   ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT .............................   20
Organizational Structure ................................   20
Staffing, Technical Assistance and Training ....        .........  21
Implementation ..........................................   23
Project Evaluation and Monitoring .......................  24
Gueekedou Second Phase Preparation ......................  24
Project Buildings .......................................   25
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission consisting
of Messrs. K. Oblitas and 0. Honisch (IDA), and R. Orsini and K. Maibach
(consultants) which visited Guinea in May 1978.
I This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Table of Contents (Continued)
Page No.
IV.    PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING ......            .................. ......    25
Project Costs ....................................................    25
Proposed Financing ...  .. .  .... ...  .......................   28
Project Preparation Facility .......................... ..    29
Procurement ............................................. .... ...   30
Disbursement .................................................            30
Financing Procedures and Revolving Funds ......... .......    31
Reporting Requirements and Auditing .....................    31
Credit Arrangements . ................. ...  ..            ........    32
V.    MARKETS, PRICES, FARMER BENEFITS AND PRODUCTION                 .........   34
Prices and Marketing ....................................   34
Farmer Benefits ............................................ :......    35
Proiect Production ....... .. .. .  ................................... .    37
VI.    BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION ......            ........................    38
VII.    AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION ............................                45
LIST OF TABLES IN THE MAIN TEXT
Table No.
i     Project Cost Summary ....................................   27
2     Financing Plan .......  ........ ...... 29
3     Economic Rates of Return ................................   41
4     Economic Benefits by Crop Production System                ..    43
ANNEXES
ANNEX 1
1   -  Project Cost Summary Part A National Components
Project Cost Summary Part B Gueckedou Pilot, Project
2   -  Disbursement Schedule
3   -  Crop Development Stages
4   -  Summary Crop Production Budgets
5   -  Farmer Participation, Hectares and Production
6   -  Economic Value of Rice
7   -  Economic Costs and Benefits



- iii -
Table of Contents (Continued)
ANNEX 2
List of Project File Contents
Figure 1: Project Organizational Structure
Figure 2: Project Implementation Schedule
MAPS
Guinea              IBRD 14163R
Pilot Project Area IBRD 14164






GUINEA
APPRAISAL OF A RICE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. BACKGROUND
A.   Project Objectives
1.01      The Government of Guinea has requested IDA assistance for develop-
ment of its rice sector. Rice is Guinea's major crop and staple food although,
despite excellent climatic and water resources potential, Guinea does not
produce enough for its own requirements. Government's objective is to in-
crease national rice output in order to become self-sufficient and an eventual
exporter of rice. A number of institutional and technical constraints impede
the realization of this objective in particular and development of Guinea's
rural sector in general.  The proposed project would assist Government to
overcome these constraints. Measures proposed under the project include:
(i) strengthening of the Ministry of Agriculture's technical expertise;
(ii) upgrading the country's agronomic research in order to provide a testing
and demonstration capacity for introducing technical improvements; (iii) tech-
nical training of Guinean cadres; (iv) assessment of ways to improve rural
incentives; (v) a preparation study for a future agricultural development
project; and (vi) a pilot rice development project in a high potential area
to test and develop technical improvements and to establish the basis for a
follow-up project in the same area.
1.02      The proposed project was prepared by consultants during 1977/78
through a study financed under the Daboya Pineapple Project (Credit GUI-569)
which was the Bank's first intervention in Guinea's rural sector.  The rice
project was appraised in May 1978 by an appraisal mission composed of Messrs.
K. Oblitas and 0. Honisch (IDA) and Messrs. R. Orsini-and K. Maibach (consul-
tants). This report is based on the mission's findings.
B.   Country Characteristics and Economic Performance
1.03      Guinea has an area of 246,000 km  and a population of about 5.0
million growing at 2.9% per annum.  The country can be divided into four main
natural regions (see map). Maritime Guinea is the coastal lowland plain
covering about 18% of the country's area and with rainfall varying between
2,200 and 4,400 mm. Middle Guinea, which encompasses the upland plateau known
as the Fouta Djalon and, to the north, the lowland plains of the Gaoual/
Koundara regions, has a rainfall between 1,500 to 2,000 mm and covers about
20% of the country's land area. Upper Guinea, occupying about 40% of the
country's surface area, is to the east and northeast of Middle Guinea, and
has a generally flat to undulating countryside covered with light forest to
forest-savannah and rainfall varying from 1,200 to 1,700 mm. The Forest Region



-2-
in the southeast, comprising about 22% of Guinea's surface area, has an equa-
torial forest climate with rainfall varying from about 1,700 mm in the north
to 3,000 mm in the south of the region.
1.04      Guinea's wide ranging climatic zones provide potential for a diversi-
fied agriculture ranging from cereals and legumes to fruits and plantains,
and industrial crops such as coffee, cocoa, coconut, oil palm and rubber.
The country is also well suited for cattle raising. In addition, Guinea is
characterized by its many rivers (particularly in upper Guinea) providing
potential for irrigated agriculture and hydro-electric power. Mineral
deposits include bauxite of which the country is estimated to possess eight
billion tons -- the largest reserve in the world -- and about two billion tons
of high-grade iron ore. Diamond and gold deposits have been identified and
prospects for uranium mining and offshore oil exploration are being actively
investigated.
1.05      Economic growth has, however, been slow.  After independence (1958),
the Government placed emphasis on developing infrastructure and mining at the
expense of agriculture and developed a centrally planned economy with trade,
banking and manufacturing handled almost exclusively by state enterprises.
Poor performance of nationalized sectors, shortage of skilled manpower and a
decline in the agricultural sectôr (para 1.07), led to severe balance of
payment difficulties and import restrictions and, finally, in economic stag-
nation. From 1974, after the start of two large bauxite mines, the economy
picked up and per capita GDP has since grown at an average of about 7.5% per
annum to reach US$230 in 1978. This is, however, still below pre-independence
levels in real terms. Future economic prospects are good although, in the
medium term, meeting foreign debt obligations will remain a critical problem.
Per capita GDP is expected to grow steadily led on by the projected rapid
growth in mining exports. Government intends to use its increasing financial
resources to develop the rural sector and rehabilitate the manufacturing
industry and public utilities.
C.   The Agricultural Sector
1.06      The agricultural sector provides a livelihood for about 80% of
Guinea's population and contributes about 40% of GDP. Rice is the staple
food occupying about half the cultivated area with an annual paddy production
at about 375,000 t. Other important food crops are maize, plantain, root
crops, groundnuts and fruits (mangoes, citrus, pineapple).  Certain crops
have regional significance: fonio (a drought tolerant low yielding cereal) in
the Fouta Djalon; coffee and oil palm in the Forest Region; and coconut in
the Maritime Region.  Rice production is concentrated in the ecologically
favored Forest and Maritime Regions which produce t:ogether about two-thirds of
national production (40% and 25% respectively). Per capita output is highest
in the Forest Region at about 90 kg rice. annually and lowest in the Fouta
Djalon at 10 kg, while national per capital consumption is about 50 kg.
Cattle rearing is also an important rural activity (over one million head) and
is concentrated mainly in the Fouta Djalon and in Upper Guinea with about 50%
and 25% of the national herd respectively.



-3-
1.07      Despite Guinea's considerable potential (para 1.04), agricultural
performance has been disappointing in the last two decades averaging less than
2% real growth per year. In 1958, Guinea was the largest exporter of bananas
in West Africa (about 100,000 t annually) and was also an exporter of other
agricultural commodities, primarily pineapple, coffee and palm kernels.
Agricultural exports have subsequently declined to negligible quantities, from
US$22 million in 1960 to US$11 million in 1970 and virtually zero in 1976.
Meanwhile, food imports have increased from US$6 million in 1957 to about
US$18 million annually in the 1970s. Rice is the main food import averaging
30,000 t. per annum (12% of rice consumption) during the early 1970s or over
half of Guinea's food import bill. This contrasts to the situation in the
1950s when Guinea produced sufficient rice to meet its own requirements.
Other major food imports are wheat flour (about 10,000 t per annum) and sugar
(about 4,000 t).
1.08      Three main factors have been instrumental in the disappointing
performance of the rural sector:
(i)  Price Levels and Incentives.  Government's centralized system
for purchases of agricultural goods and sales of consumer goods
is not responsive to producer incentives and supply and demand.
Officially set producer prices were too low in relation to the
prices of consumer goods which were, additionally, as a result
of import restrictions, in very short supply. Little incentive
was, therefore, provided for production beyond family require-
ments. In time, a "parallel" market developed where farm pro-
duce was sold or exchanged in neighboring countries for consumer
goods which were subsequently traded in Guinea. Prices of agri-
cultural produce and consumer goods on the parallel market were
i'n the early 1970s as much as five to eight times higher than
official prices. The parallel market, however, had limited
stimulus on the sector as a whole as opportunities to trade in
this market were limited. During 1977 and 1978, informal trading
opportunities increased, a factor which reduced the differential
between official and parallel market prices and which is likely
to stimulate rural productivity. However, unless Government
adjusts its official pricing structure, sales of produce to
Government are expected to remain depressed and Government's
import bill for food staples to feed urban areas would not be
reduced.
(ii) Technical and Institutional Constraints. Lack of knowledge and
trained manpower severely limits investment opportunities. This
constraint is notable within: (a) the Ministry of Agriculture
which lacks trained technicians and a properly equipped and
staffed planning and coordination unit; (b) agricultural ed-
ucation (para 1.11); (c) the national extension service (para
1.13); (d) agricultural research (para 1.12), which is not
able to provide Guinean technicians and farmers with modern
technical recommendations and demonstrations; and (e) in-depth
technical data on target development areas such as Guinea's
irrigation potential (para 2.10).



-4-
(iii)  Investment Fund Constraints.  Government's low priority on
agricultural investments during the 1960s and early 1970s
coupled with severe foreign exchange shortages resulted in
minimal real expenditure levels (10% of public investments
during the 1960s). Expenditures on agricultural development
during the latter part of the 1970s increased but investment
priorities have been inappropriate being primarily directed
towards an effort to organize villagers in mechanized coopera-
tives for rice production (para 1.21). Over 2,000 of such
entities were established between 1972 and 1976 but have
had limited success due to the lack of spare parts and main-
tenance services and absence of associated agronomic improve-
ments such as improved seed, fertilizer, and better crop
husbandry. Yields are lower than those from private farming
and, in most cases, the economic value of output barely covers
operating costs. It is estimated that mechanized cooperatives
currently cultivate about 15% of Guinea's rice area and produce
about 8% of national production representing the bulk of
paddy sales to Government (para. 5.04).
D.   Institutions
1.09      Administrative Structure.  The country is divided into 33 Adminis-
trative Regions grouped under seven regionally based Commissariats Generaux de
la Revolution (CGRs). These in turn are under the coordination of the various
central ministries in Conakry. Two ministries are responsible for rural
development: the Ministry of Agriculture, Waters, Forests and Co-operative
Farming; and the Ministry of Livestock and Fisheries. The former Ministry --
"the Ministry of Agriculture" -- handles all cropping activities and would be
responsible for the project.
1.10      Each Administrative Region is subdivided into areas called
"Arrondissements" and then finally into "Pouvoirs Revolutionnaires Locaux"
(PRLs) of which there are about 2,400 in the country. The PRL is the basic
administrative unit in the country and consists normally of a village or
several small villages with about 250 families (2,000 inhabitants) headed by
a small committee. Member families support the PRL by contributing efforts
to communal activities such as the PRL's cooperative farm (para 1.21) and
building communal facilities (schools, clinics, roads). PRL members share
the benefits from these activities.
1.11      Agricultural Education.  Considerable emphasis is placed on agri-
culture in Guinea's education system. School curricula at all levels include
agriculture, and in secondary schools about 25% of the school week is dedi-
cated to a school cultivated farm, the income of which helps to finance school
operating costs. Agricultural training faculties are located in most Admin-
istrative Regions and offer two year courses with about half the time spent
on the faculty farm. Successful students go on for three year courses at the
agricultural colleges of Kankan or Foulayah. Agricultural technicians spend



-5-
several hours a week lecturing. Despite these efforts the quality of agri-
cultural training is low being constrained by lack of laboratory and field
equipment, textbooks and journals, and, above all, appropriately qualified
teaching staff. Fully trained (B.Sc. equivalent or above) agricultural
technicians are rare and those that possess such qualifications are generally
in administrative positions.
1.12      Agricultural Research.  Guinea's facilities for applied agricul-
tural research and demonstrations are extremely inadequate. Moreover, until
1978, when Guinea joined the West Africa Rice Development Agency (WARDA),
the country had only limited contact with international agronomic research.
Guinea's main research station -- Foulayah station near Kindia in Middle
Guinea -- is short of equipment and operating funds and has insufficient
trained staff. Additionally, there are three small stations at Bordo near
Kankan in Upper Guinea, Koba near Boffa in Maritime Guinea and Pita in the
Fouta Djalon. Only Bordo and Koba stations are in major rice growing areas,
Foulayah concentrating mainly on fruit and Pita on wheat and tobacco. Poten-
tial for upgrading of Bordo and Koba research stations to meet the rice
research and demonstration requirements of their respective ecological areas,
is however, limited as: (i) due to their locations, the existing sites would
be difficult to expand; (ii) neither is well situated within their respective
natural region so as to best represent the typical climatic and soil properties
of each ecological area; and (iii) existing research stations in Guinea are
under the control of the Ministry of Higher Education and Scientific Research
thereby precluding -- under present institutional arrangements -- specific
usage by the Ministry of Agriculture. Moreover, both Bordo and Koba stations
are so delapidated that any improvements to these stations would require
complete reconstruction, re-equipping and re-staffing. As a well organized
and scientifically-based program for field trials and demonstrations is a
necessary component of a rice development strategy in Guinea, the proj-
ect would include funds for a national field trial and demonstration program
through new centers to be established in each of Guinea's main rice growing
ecological areas (para 2.06). Staffing and provisions of funds for operating
expenses at Bordo and Koba are currently at minimal levels, so that the
creation of new stations rather than the total refurnishing of the existing
stations would not require any significant additional resource cost. Further,
with the advent of the new stations in their respective natural regions, Bordo
and Koba research stations are expected to be eventually abandoned.
1.13      Agricultural Extension.  The agricultural extension network is
organized regionally under the jurisdiction of the CGRs (para 1.09). Each
regional service is headed by a General Secretary for agriculture and a
Director. The latter is assisted by extension agents, usually one for
each PRL. Lack of transport and field equipment and seasonal inputs to
undertake demonstration activities are critical weaknesses. Above all, the
lack of trained middle and senior level staff and of ongoing research and
demonstration activities provide for insufficient information to pass on to
extension field staff and farmers.
E.   The Pilot Project Area
1.14      Location and Physical Characteristics.  The area selected for the
project's pilot development program -- the Forest Region in southeastern



-6-
Guinea (see map) -- was chosen because of its high potential for rice devel-
opment and the possibilities offered for diversification into other crops
(para 1.18) during a later development phase. The Forest Region produces
about 40% of national rice output, has the highest per capita output and
higher than average yields. Furthermore, in addition to its swampland re-
sources, the area's fairly even rainfall reduces risks for rainfed rice
production thereby providing a good testing ground for improving production
systems for rainfed rice which represents about two-thirds of national rice
output.
1.15      The pilot project area is situated within the Administrative Region
of Gueckedou in the CGR of Faranah. Gueckedou is about 700 km from the capi-
tal, Conakry, to which it is linked by a tarmac road. The region borders to
the south and west on Liberid and Sierra Leone (see maps).  The Gueckedou
region covers about 4,200 km  and has 2an estimated population of about 135,000.
Population density is about 32 per km . The region is divided into 88 PRLs in
10 Arrondissements. The pilot project area is in the south of the region and
includes the town of Gueckedou. It covers about 22,500 ha or 5% of the
region's area and encompasses 12 PRLs (para 1.10) with a total estimated
population of 24,000 or about 3,000 farm families (18% of the region's popula-
tion).
1.16      The project area consists of rolling hills interspersed with river
valleys. Altitude varies from 400-500 meters. Alongside the two main rivers,
the Ouaou and the Makona (see map), are areas of swampland ("bas-fonds")
ranging in size from several to over a hundred hectares. Serious flooding
of the river valleys does not occur, although in some of the lower lying
sites temporary inundations lasting 3-6 days may happen several times during
the peak rains in August and September.  Rainfall averages 2,200 mm per annum
with some 120 rainy days. There is a dry season from December to February
and a nine month wet season, with most of the rain falling from April to
October. Temperature is fairly high throughout the year, averaging 24°C and
ranging from about 16°C to 260C.
1.17      Soils, Vegetation and Crops Grown.  A soil survey of the area has
indicated the availability of sufficient suitable land for the project. The
better soils can be classified into three main groups:
(a) Alluvial and colluvial soils (Uplands). Deep, loamy-clays
to clays on alluvial sites and sandy-clay-loams on colluvial
sites, pH 4.5 to 5.2, high organic matter content (4-8%),
C/N ratio 14 to 17, slow mineralization, poor in P and K.
(b)  Brown ferruginous tropical soils (Uplands).  The predominant
soils of the uplands, with loamy or sandy--loamy-clay topsoil
texture and more gravel in the subsoil, pH around 4.7, good
organic matter content (3-8%), C/N ratio 18 to 19, deficient
in P and K.



-7-
(c)  Hydromorphic soils (Swamplands).  High ground water level,
loamy to loamy-clay texture, high acidity, deficient in
P and K.
1.18      The natural vegetation of primary rain forest has almost disappeared
under the influence of shifting cultivation of annual crops and the planting
of tree crops.  :Lcee crcps aie g , a  y planted in mîxed stand and are fre-
quently interspersed with plantains. The most frequent trees grown are
natural oil palm, robusta coffee, kola nuts and mangoes. Rice is the staple
food and main annual crop grown occupying an estimated 6,500 ha or 90% of
the cultivated area. Of this area, about 6,000 ha is cultivated by small-
holders, the remainder being cultivated by mechanized cooperatives (para 1.21).
About 25% of the rice grown privately is grown in the swamplands. Other
crops grown include maize, groundnuts, cassava, sweet potatoes and okra.
1.19      Farming Systems.  A farming family typically consists of about
eight persons of which four are active. Farm size averages about 2.2 ha
(excluding tree crops) of which about 2 ha is cultivated to rice: about
1.5 ha to upland rice and 0.5 ha to swamp rice. All rice varieties grown
are local: for uplands, varieties with 3-5 month cycles and for lowlands
5-6 months. Upland rice is sown in April/May and harvested between July and
early September. Swamp rice is usually sown after the upland rice harvest
and harvested in December/January. All operations, with the exception of
mechanized land preparation by the cooperatives, are manual. Seed is
generally broadcasted. Fertilizer, improved seed and pesticides are not
used. Upland rice is grown in shifting cultivation with plots being typically
cultivated for about two years and then -- due mainly to difficulties in
controlling the build-up of weeds such as Imperata and Elephant Grass -- being
left for about six years under bush fallow. In swamps and on plots cultivated
mechanically by the cooperatives, cultivation is more stable. Indications of
soil erosion are apparent on some slopes cultivated mechanically.
1.20      Current paddy yields are estimated at about 1,000 kg/ha for small-
holder swampland rice, 700 kg/ha for smallholder upland rice and 400 kg/ha for
upland rice cultivated by the mechanized cooperatives. Yields could be
substantially increased through relatively simple measures such as establishing
appropriate planting densities; using fertilizer, improved seed and possibly
pesticides; simple water control measures and transplanting in the swamplands;
line seeding in the uplands; improved crop husbandry at critical stages like
land preparation and weeding; and, bird and rodent control before harvest.
Such measures would be promoted under the pilot project (para 2.15)
1.21      The 12 cooperatives -- one for each PRL -- are typical of the coop-
erative farming systems established by Government in the mid-1970s elsewhere
in Guinea (para 1.08). Concerned with increasing import bills for food
staples, Government organized rural PRLs into mechanized or ox-traction
production brigades primarily to grow rice ("Brigades Mechanisees de Produc-
tion," BMPs; and "Brigades Atteles de Production," BAPs).  Rural families
were required to contribute labor to their PRL farm in parallel with their
private farming activities. PRL output is sold to Government. Revenues



- 8-
accruing to the PRLs are used firstly for amortization of equipment,
secondly for financing construction materials for PRL building activities
(para 1.10), and thirdly for distribution of consumer goods to PRL member
families. The mechanized brigades predominate and in the project area, with
its limited cattle population, are the only type found. Each BMP is equipped
with a tractor, a plough and a disc harrow supplied by Government at syli
300,000 (US$15,000) under an interest free loan. A partially trained tractor
driver provided by Government is employed by each PRL at a cost of syli 18,000
(US$900) per season. The PRL also finances fuel and lubricant costs and spare
parts.
1.22      Cultivation techniques for the mechanized brigades are similar to
those used by private farmers for upland rice cultivation except that land
preparation is done mechanically. As presently operated, the system has a
number of inherent weaknesses. Tractor drivers are badly trained and tend
to plough too deeply raising the sub-soil. Ploughing is irregular and
frequently done down rather than along land contours thus increasing the
danger of soil erosion. But above all, there is a labor problem: as other
operations are not mechanized, the members of the cooperatives must still
do seeding, weeding, bird and rodent watching and harvesting manually. Yields
are, therefore, low partly because of overall poor crop husbandry and also
because of lack of incentives to participate in manual operations. Returns
from sale of produce by the cooperatives go mainly towards amortization of
equipment purchase costs and for machinery operating costs. There is,
therefore, little private incentive although, if yields could be increased,
a greater surplus would be left for community purposes and for distribution
to participating families. Unfortunately, the low yield/low incentive
problem encountered at present is self-reinforcing. A further problem is that
lack o spare parts and maintenance expertise often causes tractors to be out
of or'-.  This is substantially responsible for the low hectarages cultivated
by the brigades which are about half the norm of 90 ha of rice per brigade
targeted by Government. There are some positive aspects, however, for the
brigades in the pilot project area. Firstly, most of them have already re-
paid amortization debts. Secondly, some brigades have achieved higher yields
than the estimated average thus demonstrating what can be done with the
existing resources even where no fertilizer and improved seed are used.
Upgraded extension advice, the use of modern seasonal inputs, line seeding
(which would also reduce manual weeding time), machinery maintenance, and
tractor driver training could provide the stimulus required to improve the
situation. This would be attempted by the pilot project in an effort to
reassess Guinea's mechanization efforts under more favorable technical
conditions.
1.23      As concerns other crops grown by farmers in the area, maize is
intercropped with upland rice (about 4% maize) or grown on residual moisture
in the off-season in pure stands. Groundnuts are sown in February and har-
vested in May/June (after sowing of upland rice). Cassava is planted in
February/March (before upland rice sowing) and harvested either before or
after swamp rice harvest. Okra and other vegetables are mostly cultivated
in the off-season. Labor demand for other annual crops and tree crops appears,
therefore, to fit well into the "rice-calendar."



-9-
1.24      Land Tenure.  The State is the sole land owner in Guinea although
customary rights are provided on an informal basis to those who cultivate it.
Settlements of any local disputes are handled at the village level with, if
necessary, the intervention of regional authorities and PRL committees. An
assurance was obtained from Government during negotiations that land required
for the project, in particular the proposed site for the project headquarters
and lands for the seed farm and water control works for swamplands would be
made available to project management in a timely fashion. A timetable for
this purpose was also agreed upon. Additionally, Government provided an
assurance that farmers already cultivating swamplands chosen for improvement
would be allowed the option to continue cultivation of their parcels after the
improvements had been made. The pilot project's management would be respon-
sible for decisions concerning any land tenure disputes that might arise in
connection with the project and would liaise with local authorities in making
its decisions.
II. THE PROJECT
A. Project Description
2.01      The project would help Guinea to develop its rice sector through:
(i) a national component to assist Government in overcoming institutional
and technical constraints impeding the realization of its objectives to
increase national rice production (para 1.08); and (ii) a pilot project at
Gueckedou in the high potential Forest Region (para 1.14) which would be the
basis for a larger future development program in that area and which would
provide experience for future development projects in the rural sector.
The project would be implemented over five years. An outline description
is provided below.
2.02      The National Component would consist of:
(a) the establishment of a specialized unit -- "Operation Nationale
pour le Developpement de la Riziculture" (ONADER) -- within the
Ministry of Agriculture to:
(i) help plan and coodinate rice development programs; and
(ii) supervise the other national components (items b to e) and
provide central guidance and services for the managerially
autonomous pilot project (para 2.03);
(b) an applied rice research program to test and demonstrate
suitable varieties and fertilizers, pest control and crop
husbandry recommendations;



- 10 -
(c) a project preparation study for agricultural development
in the Upper Guinea area;
(d) a fellowship program for training of Guinean cadres; and
(e)  a study of Guinea's pricing system and farmer incentives for
its main agricultural products in order to provide guidelines
on future producer and consumer prices.
2.03      The Pilot Proiect ("Operation Riz Gueckedou," ORG) would consist of:
(a) a mechanized seed multiplication farm and processing plant
for production and distribution of improved rice seed to
farmers;
(b) applied research to test and demonstrate rice varieties and
agronomic improvements;
(c) low cost irrigation works on 700 ha of selected swamplands;
(d) extension, training and credit services through which farm
inputs and agronomic advice would be provided to about 2,700
family farms and 12 mechanized cooperatives in the pilot
project area (para 2.04);
(e) the construction of project offices, a workshop and staff
housing;
(f) upgrading to all weather surface and subsequent maintenance
of 63 kms of feeder roads;
(g) the provision and maintenance of five small rice hullers in
centralized locations; and
(h) evaluation and monitoring of pilot project progress and project
preparation for a possible second phase project.
2.04      The pilot project at Gueckedou would emphasize simple measures to
augment the productivity of upland and swampland rice cultivated by small-
holders, and upland rice cultivated by mechanized cooperative enterprises
(paras 1.19 to 1.21). Improvements would be mainly agronomic: the use of
fertilizers, improved seed and possibly pesticides, transplanting in the
swamplands and line seeding in the uplands, and improved cultivation.  About
half the participating families would also have their swamplands improved
under force account. This service would be provided on credit. The mecha-
nized cooperatives would receive on credit seed drills and trailers and spare
parts for existing machinery. Training in proper machinery utilization and
maintenance would also be provided.  A total of about 2,700 farming families
cultiva,ting some 4,000 ha of upland rice and 1,300 ha of swamp rice and the 12
mechanized cooperatives, to which they also belong, cultivating an additional



- Il -
1,000 ha of upland rice, are expected to benefit from the pilot project.
Incremental output achieved during the pilot project period would be about
4,500 t paddy. The seed multiplication center would be expected to attain an
output sufficient to supply 35,000 ha with improved seed providing additional
benefits through improved seed release and an immediate lead-in to a follow-up
project.
B. Detailed Features
1. The National Components
2.05      ONADER.  This unit -- "Operation Nationale pour le Developpement
de la Riziculture" -- would provide the Ministry of Agriculture with an
appropriately staffed and equipped central office for planning and guidance
on rural sector development. Emphasis would be on the rice sub-sector al-
though expansion of the unit into a broader role is envisaged at a later date.
The unit would also supervise other project components, although its involve-
ment in the administratively autonomous pilot project would be limited to
back-up professional and administrative services (paras 3.01 and 3.02).
ONADER's function as the Ministry's central planning and coordination unit for
rice development would fill a critically needed role. Shortage of qualified
staff and the lack of a formal entity within the Ministry charged with this
function have hitherto not allowed for the formulation and carrying through of
rural development objectives based on technically determined criteria. By
providing the Ministry with the necessary technical information and specialist
advice and by supporting field development programs with technical expertise,
ONADER could substantially improve the Ministry's capacity for rice develop-
ment planning and implementation. As ONADER's work program wodld require
continual modification in line with the evolution of Guinea's rice development
requirements, it would be discussed and agreed with IDA annually (para 4.11).
ONADER'S senior Guinean staff would comprise the Director and six profes-
sionals: an agricultural economist, an agronomist, an agricultural engineer,
an economist/statistician, an administration officer and an accountant. They
would be assisted by three internationally recruited specialists: an agricul-
tural economist, an agronomist, and an agricultural engineer. The unit would
be provided with an office, housing for technical assistance staff, vehicles,
equipment (calculators, xerox machine, typewriters, stationery, surveying and
cartographic equipment), and support-staff (secretaries, drivers, draughts-
men). Finance would also be provided for short term internationally recruited
consultants (para 3.06) and for training of Guinean staff (para 3.08).
2.06      Applied Agricultural Research.  In response to the lack of applied
agricultural research in Guinea (para 1.12), finance would be provided to
build up the country's capacity to provide appropriate agronomic recommenda-
tions and demonstrations upon which to base Guinea's medium and longer term
agricultural development. Applied research work during the project period
would be limited to rice although the capacity created under the project would



- 12 -
allow for subsequent diversification to other crops after the project period.
Research stations would be established in two of Guinea's three main rice
growing ecological regions: one in the coastal swamplands of the Maritime
Region which contains about 24% of the country's surface area cultivated
to rice; the other in the Niger-Tinkisso valley of Upper Guinea (26% of
Guinea's cultivated rice area). The third main rice growing region -- the
Forest Region with about one third of the country's rice area -- would also
have an applied rice research program operated as a component of the pilot
project (para 2.23). Additionally, contingency funds have been provided
under the project for the possible establishment of a research sub-station
in the plains of the Gaoual/Koundara Regions in the north of Middle Guinea
where about 7% (30,000 ha) of the country's rice cultivation is located.
While this area is of lesser significance as concerns rice production than
the three natural regions specified above, it has specific technical con-
straints justifying its inclusion in the applied research program. In partic-
ular, these constraints concern the need to find and test short-cycle rice
varieties with some tolerance to intermittent dry spells and which would be
suitable for the semi-arid conditions found in that area. Establishment of
this station would, however, be contingent upon initial implementation,
satisfactory to IDA, of the Upper Guinea and Maritime Region research pro-
grams.  This condition was agreed upon during negotiations and is reflected
in the Credit Agreement.
2.07      Field trials would concentrate on fertilizer usage, comparative
variety trials, seed production of improved varieties, and trials on improved
land preparation and farming techniques including weed and pest control,
harvesting, processing and storage. Each station would carry out trials on
up to about 10 ha and a further 10 ha or possibly more of on-station and
on-farm demonstrations. Two-way cooperation with local extension services
would be an important part of the stations' activities. The research stations
would provide extension staff with technical recommendations and help in
establishing demonstrations on pilot faras and organizing field visits.
Extension personnel would provide feedback on adoption of new recommendations
and practical problems deserving research attention. The stations are even-
tually expected to become focal points for rural development through expansion
into additional activities such as seed multiplication, field training, and
headquarters sites for future development projects.
2.08      The applied research program would be managed by ONADER and would
be under the technical supervision of the internationally recruited ONADER
agronomist. In addition, consultancy arrangements and arrangements for
training secondments for Guinean staff would be made with established West
African research institutes such as the International Institute for Tropical
Agriculture (IITA), the West Africa Rice Development Agency (WARDA), and the
"Institut pour la Recherche Agricole Tropicale" (IRAT). Each station would be
provided with the necessary extra infrastructure (housing, an office, field
laboratory and storage facilities), agricultural equipment, vehicles, seasonal
inputs and operating funds. Sites for the research stations have been pro-
visionally identified and would be confirmed by Government, subject to IDA's



- 13 -
approval, by November 30, 1979. An assurance to this effect was obtained
during negotiations. For the Upper Guinea and Maritime Region stations,
construction of buildings would commence in PYI and full staffing and field
activities would get underway in PY2. If initial implementation at these two
stations is satisfactory, establishment of the Gaoual/Koundara station would
be expected during PYs 2/3.
2.09      To allow proper initial planning, ONADER would at the beginning of
PY1 undertake a detailed review of the requirements for each station and
provide an outline implementation program including proposed field trials.
This would be submitted to Government and IDA for approval not later than
June 30, 1980. In addition to the general reporting requirements outlined in
para 4.11, the research stations, under ONADER coordination, would produce
annually a report containing the results and conclusions of the previous
year's field trials.  Assurances on these matters were obtained from Govern-
ment during negotiations.
Prolect Preparation for Rice Development in Upper Guinea
2.10      The proposed study which would be undertaken by internationally
recruited consultants would prepare for a possible future agricultural develop-
ment project in the high potential Niger/Tinkisso valley of Upper Guinea (see
map). The Niger/Tinkisso valley consists of flat alluvial plainlands traversed
by rivers. Rainfall is about 1,300 mm but sporadic, providing risks for
rainfed crop production. Population is concentrated alongside the rivers.
Several uncompleted studies of the area's development potential undertaken in
the past, indicate the area's suitability for low cost water controlled rice
development, and the area also offers potential for rainfed production of
other crops such as maize and cassava. Technical, economic and demographic
data are, however, still insufficient for the detailed design and implementa-
tion of an agricultural development project.
2.11      Prior to the study, ONADER staff would undertake a reconnaisance
survey in PYI to further define development potential, locate the area for
detailed study and prepare draft terms of reference for the study including
an estimated study calendar and personnel and equipment requirements. ONADER's
findings would be submitted to IDA in a brief report. As a condition of dis-
bursement against the costs of the subsequent full study -- consultant costs
and equipment -- IDA's approval would be required of ONADER's findings and
recommendations and of the consultants selected for the study and their terms
of reference. Approval for the full study and of its TOR would depend upon
demonstration by ONADER, confirmed by IDA's analysis, of the expected economic
viability of the anticipated eventual project.
2.12      Agricultural Pricing Study.  In recognition of the importance that
appropriate producer incentives play in stimulating agricultural productivity
(paras 1.08 and 5.04), the study would aim to provide Government with recom-
mendations on prices of agricultural produce and inputs. While concentrating
on agricultural prices with particular emphasis on more significant rural



- 14 -
activities including, in particular, rice, the study would have a broad per-
spective approach. This is necessary given the general economic environment
within which agricultural prices must be viewed. Matters studied would
include the relationship between official and parallel market prices and
sales volumes, credit policy for agricultural inputs, relative prices in
adjacent countries, trade of agricultural produce, farm budgets, estimates of
production and consumption response to changes in prices, cost of living
effects on consumers of current and possible future prices, and fiscal and
foreign exchange effects. The study would be undertaken by consultants under
the administrative and financial umbrella of ONADER. A small team of Guinean
counterpart staff would assist the consultants in the collation of data. A
total of 28 months of consultant time is anticipated over about 1-1/2 years
beginning during PYI and involving an agricultural economist and a general
economist, plus inputs from specialists such as a marketing expert and an
agriculturalist. Transport and miscellaneous expenses would also be financed.
2.13      Terms of reference for the study including a study implementation
calendar were agreed with Government during negotiations (project file).
At Government's request, IDA agreed to assist in finding suitable consultants.
Agreement was also reached on the establishment of a steering committee for
liason between the study team, Government and IDA during study implementation
and for discussion of study results. This would be established not later
than December 31, 1979, and is expected to consist of the following agencies:
the "Commission des Prix" (the commission for regulation of prices in the
President's Office), the Prime Minister's Office, the Ministry of Agriculture,
the Ministry of Livestock, the Ministry of Economy, the Ministry of Finance,
the Ministry of Planning, the Ministry of Internal Commerce and the Central
Bank. IDA would also be represented on the committee in an advisory role
and would additionally, in view of the complexity and importance of the
study's tasks, provide technical advice to the consultants. It was also
agreed that interim findings of the study during its implementation would be
discussed reguarly (at least every six months) between Government and IDA, and
that the final conclusions of the study (expected completion date December
1981) would be discussed with IDA not later than March 31, 1982. An assurance
was also obtained that the consultants undertaking the study would be provided
with all the information and access to relevant officials needed to carry out
their work. The results of the study would form a base in IDA's future
dialogue with Government on economic and agricultural sector policy.
2.  Gueckedou Pilot Project
2.14      Technical Packages.  Increases in the currently low yields obtained
in the project area (para 1.20) would be sought through three technical
packages aimed at improving the three main systems of rice production:



- 15 -
(i) smallholders upland rice; (ii) smallholders swamp rice; and (iii) upland
rice cultivated by mechanized cooperatives. Proposed improvements would be
simple so as to integrate smoothly with current husbandry practices. Further,
they should be flexible enough to allow for modification during project
implementation as results from the Gueckedou field trial program and farmers'
fields become available. Initial proposals for the project have been based on
research results and techniques used in ecologically similar areas of neighbor-
ing Liberia and Sierra Leone with adaptions to suit the specific conditions
found in the pilot project area. A schematic description of each package is
provided below. Details are in the crop development diagram and farm budgets
of Annex 1, Tables 3 and 4.
2.15      Project proposed systems would involve the use of hand broad-
casted fertilizer (initially 100 kg/ha of NPK 20:20:20), improved seed
(para 2.17) with seed dressing, and improved crop husbandry at critical
periods (e.g., land preparation, seeding, weeding, bird and rodent control
before harvest). Other improvements would be:
(i)  Smallholders Upland Rice
Gradual introduction of manual line sowing as opposed to the
present practice of broadcasting. This would ensure a more
even crop and facilitate weeding.
(ii)  Smallholders Swamp Rice
(a)  Improved water control through flood protection,
bunding, drainage and land levelling (para 2.20).
(b) Introduction of nursery beds and transplanting.
(iii) Mechanized Cooperatives Upland Rice
(a) Improved usage and maintenance of existing equipment
(tractor, plough, disc harrow) through training of
tractor drivers and provision of spare parts and
maintenance services. Particularly critical improve-
ments would be ploughing along land contours at an
appropriate depth, speed and furrow spacing.
(b) Addition of a row seeder for mechanized line sowing
would improve plant spacing and population and
facilitate weeding which would continue to be done
manually. A trailer for input and crop trans-
portation would also be provided.
By PY5, yields (kg paddy/ha) are anticipated to be increased as follows:



- 16 -
With Project
Without Project Estimated   Estimated Average   Incremental
Average Yields                Yields            Yield
(kg/ha) %
Family farmed
Upland Rice                  700                     1,250            550   80
Family farmed
Swampland Rice             1,000                     2,600 /a       1,600  160
Cooperatives
Upland Rice                  400                     1,000            600  150
/a   2,100 kg/ha without project improved lands (Annex 1, Table 3).
2.16      Seed Multiplication.  Improved seed would be multiplied on a 400 ha
mechanized seed production farm (about 300 ha rice, the rest in rotation
with maize and fallow). Due to the disrupted terrain characteristic of the
project area, several parcels of land would be required. Suitable areas have
been identified for this purpose all within 3 kms of the project headquarters.
Seed processing (cleaning, drying, dressing and bagging) would be handled by a
specialized plant provided and installed (with the exception of the building
which would be constructed separately; para 3.13) under a turnkey contract
at an estimated cost of US$480,000. The contract would also include staff
training in plant operations and maintenance, and a back-up service of spare
parts _:d, if necessary, consultancy visits.  Such an arrangement is the
most E-.s!table form of supplying this type of specialized and integrated
procesbing plant. Although not essential to the seed requirements of the
pilot project participants, an attempt would be made under the project to
increase the overall output of the seed multiplication farm by contracting
three farmers cooperatives during PYs 4 and 5 to assist in the bulking up of
improved seed.  As part of the contract, the participating cooperatives would
be provided the use of rice mowers and stationary threshers supplied and
financed by the seed multiplication farm. Fuel and lubricant costs and other
equipment items common to all brigades -- tractor, plough, disc harrow,
seeder, trailer -- would be financed by the cooperatives themselves. The
usage of rice mowers and threshers would reduce labor requirements during
harvesting and would substantially improve returns per manday (Annex I Table
4) providing a monetary incentive to participate. It would also allow an
assessment to be made of the merits of introducing this type of equipment
during the anticipated follow-up project.  Selection of the three PRLs would
be done on the basis of past performance. In view of the critical nature of
the work to be done, supervision of these cooperatives, which would be under-
taken by seed multiplication farm staff, would be particularly intensive.
Alternatively, if by PY4 the performance of the cooperatives were found to be
unsatisfactory for this activity, a slight expansion of the seed multiplica-
tion farm or the contracting of smallholder farmers for assisting in seed
multiplication could be considered.



- 17 -
2.17      Seed varieties chosen for multiplication would initially be those
successfully used in similar ecological areas in Sierra Leone and Liberia.
In the Foya-Voinjama area of northern Liberia, just south of Gueckedou,
paddy yields from the high-yielding short season (125 day) upland rice
variety, LAC-23, have been over 3,000 kg/ha on farmers' fields. Swamp rice
varieties currently recommended for use there are 1R5 and IR20, both with a
yield potential of 5,000 kg of paddy per hectare and with yields recorded
on farmers' fields of around 3,400 kg/ha. IITA in cooperation with the
Suakoko Research Station in Liberia has agreed to supply the project with 800
kg of upland rice and 30 kg of swamp rice breeders seed of these or similar
varieties. This seed would be provided for the planting season in PY2. Two
years would be required before this seed could be multiplied up in sufficient
quantities to begin distribution to farmers, making PY4 the first year when
seed would be available. Full details concerning the seed multiplication farm
are in the project file Tables A8 I to III and Table BI. Seed farm yields are
estimated at 1,300 kg/ha for upland rice and 2,500 kg/ha for swamp rice.
Participating cooperatives are assumed to attain yields of 1,150 kg/ha which
would be slightly higher than the expected yields of other cooperatives.
Seeding rates for the improved seed are assumed to be 65 kg/ha for upland rice
and 40 kg/ha (with transplanting) for swamp rice.
2.18      Seed should be replaced on farms every fourth year making for a
build up of total land area plantable with improved seed as follows:
PY               Upland Rice Ha             Swampland Rice Ha
4                  5,000                         1,400
5                 11,400                         2,800
6                 21,200                         4,800
7                 25,900                         5,400
8 and on          29,300                         6,000
These figures include plantable areas available from the seed expected to be
produced by the three cooperatives. Without the cooperatives, final seed
output and plantable area would be reduced by about 50% for upland rice
although swampland rice seed production, which would be produced by the seed
farm only, would be unaffected. Seed production -- being even without the
participation of the cooperatives substantially in excess of pilot project
farmer requirements -- would still be sufficient however for expansion of
project activities beyond the project period in the anticipated follow-up
project. The economic analysis of chapter VI demonstrates the viability of
seed production beyond pilot project farmers' requirements even without a
follow-up project. If a follow-up project succeeds the pilot project, the
output of the seed multiplication farm would be a key ingredient.
2.19      Provision of improved seed would be through direct purchase at a
price not less than Government's official price for paddy (currently 9 s/kg)
or on a simple exchange basis, i.e., a bag of improved seed would be provided
in place of a bag of paddy which would subsequently be sold to Government.



- 18 -
These arrangements would approximately cover the average cost of seed produc-
tion estimated at about 10 s/kg including allowances for amortization of
equipment. The exchange system is recommended for its conceptual simplicity
which would encourage initial usage by farmers even though they have not as
yet seen the benefits resulting from the use of improved seed. As a result of
the demonstration achieved by the project, seed could later be provided at
cost plus.
2.20      Land Engineering Works.  About 700 ha of swamplands and 360 ha of
uplands would be improved under force account. The works proposed, while not
yet tried in Guinea, have been successful under similar conditions elsewhere.
The improved swamplands would be used by smallholders. Improved uplands
would be for the seed production farm. Land engineering works in the
swamplands would provide better water control and hence higher yields.
During high rain periods, river flooding would be prevented and surface
runoff controlled, and in between rainy periods, water levels would be main-
tained. For the uplands, the works would counteract soil erosion and allow
continuous cultivation. Technical details are in the project file.
2.21      About half the farming families (1,400) in the pilot project area
would benefit from project improvements to their swamplands. This would have
minimal disruption on farming activities as the work would be undertaken in
the off-season. The choice of swamplands for improvements would be based on
topographic and hydrological suitability. The remaining smallholders would
continue to cultivate unimproved lands although extension advice would be
provided on partial water control measures that can be done manually. Seven
hundred ha is considered sufficient for testing the proposed land engineering
techniques and this could be undertaken by using the minimum possible fleet
of equipment (generally one unit of each type of equipment), while employing
the equipment at full capacity. The equipment would also be used for recon-
struction of feeder roads (para 2.25). Engineering works would be phased as
follows over several dry seasons to minimize equipment requirements and to
allow for thorough land surveying and supervision:
Project Year /a  Swamplands Improved   Uplands Improved
PY          ---------------(ha)----------
2/3                200                     160
3/4                200                     200
4/5                300                      -
Total    700                     360
/a   Dry season:  November through May.
Depending upon successful experience gained during the pilot project period,
land engineering works could be expected to continue with appropriate modi-
fications during a possible follow-up project.
2.22      Land engineering works would require some manual labor during
construction (115 days/ha for swamplands and 10 days/ha for uplands) which
would be hired locally. Swampland farmers would also contribute labor for
constructing bunds.  Annual maintenance would require periodic reprofiling
by grader and manual repair of ditches. Average investment costs would amount



- 19 -
to US$730/ha for swamplands and US$230/ha for uplands with subsequent annual
maintenance at US$29/ha and US$14/ha respectively. Costs are in 1979 terms
including allowances for equipment amortization. Smallholders would reimburse
investment costs on credit and would pay annual maintenance fees (para 4.13).
2.23      Field Trials.  The research station at Gueckedou would commence
field trials in PY2 and would initially concentrate on the project area. In
PYs 4 and 5, a limited number of trial/demonstration plots uould be established
in cooperation with local extension services in other key areas of the forest
region. Consultancy arrangements and reporting requirements would be as for
the Maritime and Upper Guinea research stations (paras 2.08 and 2.09).
Field trials and demonstrations would focus on aspects relevant to successful
evolution of pilot project recommendations such as seed varieties, fertilizer
requirements, weed and pest control and crop husbandry recommendations for
swamp and upland rice.
2.24      Extension Service.  The project extension service would take over
all activities currently handled in the project area by the regional exten-
sion service -- which would continue to be responsible for extension work in
the rest of the region -- although informal liaison between the project
extension service and the regional directorate of agriculture would be main-
tained. One extension agent would be provided for each of the 12 PRLs (about
250 family farms plus the collectively operated brigade). Extension activities
would concentrate initially on the following key areas: demonstration of
improved rice varieties, appropriate timing and application rates of fertilizer,
line sowing of upland rice, use of nurseries and transplanting for swamp rice,
establishment of bunds and improvement of partial water control, and better
usage by the brigades of their machinery. The project's extension service
would be headed by a Guinean extension officer. Its activities would be
closely interlinked with those of the research station and the training center
(para 3.09) under the overall supervision of the internationally recruited
development agronomist (para 3.04).
2.25      Access Roads.  The project area has as its main north-south
artery the tarmac Gueckedou-Kissidougou road maintained by the Ministry of
Public Works. Radiating off from this is a network of roads and tracks
providing adequate coverage but in poor condition, many being impassable
during the wet season. Key access roads would be upgraded and subsequently
maintained to all weather standard including culverts and small bridges where
necessary and resurfacing with locally available laterite in lower lying
areas. This would be done under force account using for the most part equip-
ment that would also be used for the land engineering works. A total of 63 km
of key access roads have been identified of which 60 km would be improved and
3 km would be new roads. To allow for good road communications early in the
project period, most of the road upgrading would be done in the dry season
commencing at the end of PY1. Average upgrading costs are estimated at
US$2,900 per km and annual maintenance costs at US$500 per km (base 1979
prices with machinery costs amortized).
2.26      Rice Hullers.  Five small rice hullers (350 kg paddy/hr) with rubber
rollers and parboiling units costing about US$11,000 each would be provided on



- 20 -
credit in PY2 to centrally located PRLs in the project area. The PRLs would
operate these on a commercial basis financing operating costs themselves and
taking 5% of output as a fee. Such units are in heavy demand. Government's
500 kg/hr rice huller at Gueckedou presently takes a 10% fee and is fully
utilized. A 5% fee is, however, estimated to be sufficient to obtain returns
on operating costs which would recover the investment cost in 1-1/2 years,
although credit recovery is assumed over 3 years. Depending upon the success
of the PRL operated rice hullers during the pilot project period, more could
be introduced later. The five rice hullers plus the existing rice huller
could process up to 6,000 t paddy/year which is anticipated to encompass rice
milling requirements during the project period after taking into account
on-farm manual hulling.
III. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
Organizational Structure
3.01      The project's organizational structure is presented in Annex II,
Figure 1. The project would be under the administration of ONADER (para 2.05)
which would be a new department within the Ministry of Agriculture with
its own budget and bank accounts (para 4.08) and headed by a Guinean Director
(para 3.03). As ONADER's administrative and financial autonomy under the sole
supervision of the Ministry of Agriculture would be a key factor determining
the success of the project, assurances were obtained during negotiations that
ONADER would be provided an organizational status and structure permitting it
to: (i) exercise control over its day-to-day operations and resources under
the MiriLster's sole supervision; and (ii) have direct access to the Minister
at al] W.imes.  An assurance was also provided that, if necessary, appropriate
measures would be taken by Government to prevent any interference by other
Government departments or agencies impeding ONADER from carrying out its
obligations under the project. In addition to its role as the Ministry's rice
development planning and coordination office (para 2.05), ONADER would be
responsible for execution of all project components. For the administratively
autonomous pilot project, ONADER's role would be mainly to provide additional
professional support where needed and to serve as a Conakry liaison office for
the centralization of project accounts and procurement activities. In addi-
tion to its technical specialists, ONADER staffing includes an administration
officer and an accountant who would provide administrative support to the
Director of ONADER. Communications between the geographically disparate
locations of the project -- Conakry, Gueckedou, and the research stations --
would be facilitated by the provision of a two-way VHF radio system which
would be installed at each location under a turnkey contract including sub-
sequent maintenance services (total cost US$75,000). Details concerning
installation procedures and operation of these radio sets would be worked out
by Government in conformity with its standard procedures for usage of com-
munication facilities.



- 21 -
3.02      The Gueckedou pilot project -- "Operation Riz Gueckedou" (ORG) --
while being under the overall administrative and financial umbrella of ONADER,
would operate as a managerially autonomous sub-department of ONADER. Staff-
ing at Gueckedou has been structured to allow for this autonomy. ORG manage-
ment would handle its own budgeting and accounts and would have equivalent
powers to ONADER management for procurement and withdrawal of funds although
it would liaise with ONADER for centralization of overall project accounts
and procurement activities where ONADER and ORG needs coincide. ORG would
have four operational departments: the research, extension and training
department; the seed multiplication center; the department of works (swamp-
land improvements and access roads); and the workshop. Main activities
undertaken by these departments are described in paras 2.14 to 2.26. In
addition, there would be a financial and administrative services department
including a credit unit (para 4.13), and an evaluation unit (para 3.11). ORG
would be headed by a Director and an Assistant Director.
3.03      Staffing, Technical Assistance and Training.  The recruitment of
qualified staff to key project positions would be an essential factor deter-
mining the success of the project. Key locally staffed positions would be:
the Directors of ONADER and ORG; the six professional positions in ONADER
(para 2.05, one of whom would be the Assistant Director of ONADER); the
agronomists in charge of each research station; and, at Gueckedou, the ORG
assistant director; the heads of the seed multiplication center, applied
research program and extension service (agronomists); the rural engineer and
the chief surveyor in the department of works (agricultural/public works
engineers); the workshop mechanic; the evaluation officer (economist); and,
the head of financial and administrative services and the credit officer
(accountants). An assurance was obtained during negotiations that the above
posts would be filled at all times by appropriately qualified and experienced
persons. Satisfactory appointments for the positions of Director of ONADER
and Director of ORG would be a condition of Project Effectiveness.
3.04      A total of seven technical specialists would be recruited interna-
tionally to assist Guinean cadres in specialized activities for which local
expertise is limited.  These positions would be:  three specialists at ONADER
headquarters (agricultural economist, agronomist and rural engineer); and,
at Gueckedou, an agronomist/farm manager responsible for seed multiplication
activities; a development agronomist responsible for the project's research
and demonstration activities, extension work and training center; a rural/
public works engineer responsible for land engineering works and the upgrading
of access roads; and, a mechanic heading the workshop and responsible for the
maintenance of project equipment and stocking of project supplies and spare
parts. A total of 29 man years of technical assistance would be required. An
expatriate recruitment calendar is in the implementation schedule of Annex 2,
Figure 2. Terms of reference (project file) were agreed during negotiations.
Although expatriate specialists would initially assume line responsibilities,
during their last years' activities they would increasingly function in an
advisory capacity to counterpart Guinean staff so as to provide a smooth
transition of responsibilities. In order to encourage the transfer of spe-
cialist expertise to Guinean cadres, expatriate TORs place strong emphasis



- 22 -
upon the capacity of expatriates through on the job training to assist count-
erpart staff to acquire their specialist skills. This emphasis would be
continued during expatriate recruitment and during project supervision.
3.05      Expatriate specialists would be hired through a contract with a
consulting firm in order to provide administrative simplicity, back-up techni-
cal services to assist field staff, and staff flexibility. Subcontracting or
informal linkages by the employed firm with other consulting firms or with
individuals may, however, be necessary given the range of expertise required
which is seldom available in any one firm. During negotiations, a short list
provided by Goverrunent of consulting firms to be invited to submit proposals
was agreed upon and the letter of invitation plus supporting documentation was
finalized.  These invitations allow consulting firms the flexibility to subcon-
tract with other firms or with individuals so as to supplement their own
expertise wherever necessary. All communications and expatriate administra-
tion during project implementation would, however, be handled by dealing
directly with a single consulting firm. The signing of a satisfactory contract
for the project's technical assistance positions would be a condition of
project effectiveness.
3.06      Other consultancy arrangements would be for the project preparation
study in Upper Guinea (para 2.10) and the agricultural pricing study (para
2.12). Further short term specialist activities not expected to be covered
under the technical assistance consultant contract would be provided for.
These would include: design work and supervision for construction of build-
ings (para 3.13), visiting arrangements with agronomic research institutes
(para 2.08), project preparation for a possible follow-up project at Gueckedou
(para 3.12), a monitoring and evaluation specialist (para 3.11) and 6 months
of unspecified consultant time for specialist requirements that may become
necessary (for example, a soils specialist or a hydrologist) during project
implementation. The selection and appointment, including terms of reference,
of all consultants would require IDA approval and would be through procedures
satisfactory to IDA. An assurance to this effect was obtained during negotia-
tions.
3.07      Training of Guinean cadres would be through on the job training
by association with expatriate specialist staff, fellowships for technical
training (para 3.08), and training courses organized through the Gueckedou
training center( para 3.09). The training program would be part of the
project's annual reporting requirements (para 4.11). Training emphasis
and targets would be monitored during project supervision.
3.08      The training fellowship program would provide finance for formal
training or short-term (one to six months) courses and secondments for
Guinean cadres. Most short term fellowships would be for training and famil-
iarization visits to research institutes such as IITA, WARDA and IRAT and to
suitable Bank financed or other projects in West Africa carrying out work
relevant to the seconded staff. About 50 short period courses/secondments



- 23 -
are anticipated over the project period, the bulk of them in the first two
years of the project in order to provide an early exposure. Their duration
would vary from full cropping season secondments for agronomists, to one
or two months for other staff such as the training officer, evaluation officer,
and accountants. Additionally, financing for two man years per annum of
formal training for senior project staff would be provided. Two nine months'
fellowships for a course in administration and financial management techniques
for managerial staff of agricultural projects have been arranged for the
designated Director of ORG and for one of the professional staff in ONADER.
Arrangements are also being made for the secondment of Guinean agronomists to
West African research institutes so as to provide experience prior to start-up
in PY2 of the project's field trial program. Other relevant courses are under
consideration and would be arranged during project implementation. Details on
the training fellowship program are in the project file. The program was
discussed and agreed during negotiations.
3.09      At Gueckedou, a small training center consisting of a dormitory
for thirty persons, a lecture room, office, kitchen and hygienic facilities
would be constructed, and a training officer and two demonstrators would be
recruited to organize on-project training under the coordination of the
internationally recruited development agronomist (para 3.04). Training
would be undertaken with the assistance of other project staff and would have
an applied character making use of project facilities: the research and
seed production fields, field demonstrations sites, the workshop and farmyard.
Training would consist of basic and recycling courses for project middle
and junior level staff, selected project farmers, and tractor drivers and
key PRL leaders involved with the cooperative farms. From PY4 onwards,
the training program would begin training extension staff and some pilot
farmers from outside the pilot project area. An assurance was obtained
during negotiations that an outline training program for the Gueckedou train-
ing center would be submitted to IDA not later than June 30, 1980 for its
concurrence.
3.10      Implementation.  A project implementation schedule is at Annex 2,
Figure 2. The project would be implemented over five years with some early
activities -- for instance, initiation of the training fellowship program,
design work for project buildings, initiation of procurement for equipment and
vehicles required for PY1 -- expected to take place before credit effective-
ness. Foreign exchange costs associated with these activities would be
financed through the project preparation facility (para 4.05). Main project
activities during PY1 would be the construction of project buildings (para
3.14), the build up of project staffing including training through secondment
contracts, and preparations for the commencement of field activities in PY2 at
Gueckedou and the research stations. ONADER staff and some Gueckedou posi-
tions would be recruited at the beginning of PY1. Early ONADER activities
would be concerned with the reconnaisance survey for the Upper Guinea project
preparation study and preparations for the applied research program and the
pricing study. The pricing study is expected to begin in the first half of



- 24 -
PYI and to be completed by the end of PY2. The Upper Guinea project prepara-
tion study is expected to begin in the second half of PYI and to be completed
by mid-PY3. During PY1 temporary accommodation in Conakry for technical
assistance staff would be arranged by Government. A Guest House exists at
Gueckedou for the ORG directorate's field work. Implementation at Gueckedou
would be phased in accordance with the build-up of seed production, the land
engineering program, and the build-up of project staffing. Incorporation of
farmers into the project would accordingly be gradual and over several crop
development stages (paras 5.10 and 5.11 and Annex 1, Table 5).
3.11      Project Evaluation and Monitoring.  The project's annual reporting
procedures (para 4.11) would providé a continued internal monitoring of
project activities and the material for dialogue between IDA and Government
on ways to augment project performance. At Gueekedou a small evaluation unit
would be established to monitor the project's impact and collect data for
the anticipated follow-up project. The unit would consist of an evaluation
officer (economist), a technical officer, six field enumerators, a clerk
and a typist. It would be equipped with a small pick-up, bicycles for enumer-
ators, field measuring equipment and two calculators. The evaluation officer
would visit an operational evaluation unit on a Bank financed project prior
to establishing the unit. He would be assisted by ONADER's internationally
recruited agricultural economist and also, during the first two years of
operation, by a vîsiting consultant project evaluation specialist. Evaluation
unit activities would concentrate on establishing a data base for current and
future project activities. Particular emphasis would be placed on comparisons
of yields and labor inputs on family and cooperative farms under different
cropping systems (with and without project and by crop development stage).
Other investigation areas would include crop marketing and basic household
economic and social data. A brief statistical report on field survey results
would bl produced annually. An outline TOR for the evaluation unit's activi-
ties was agreed upon during negotiations (project file).
3.12      Gueckedou Second Phase Preparation.  Preparation for a possible
follow-up project in the Gueckedou area would commence at the beginning of
PY4 using technical inputs from ONADER and ORG staff and a consultant agricul-
tural economist who would be hired for analysis and report writing. Eight
consultant months, two return trips to Guinea and one to Washington have been
assumed. Preparation would be coordinated by ONADER under IDA guidance.
Terms of reference would be prepared in PY3 and agreed with IDA prior to
hiring of the consultant. An assurance to this effect was obtained from
Government during negotiations. The nature of the follow-up project would
depend upon experience gained during implementation of the pilot project.
It is envisaged that the scope of the pilot project would be expanded geo-
graphically but that it would remain focussed on aspects successfully imple-
mented during the pilot project and would make use of facilities, equipment
and expertise created during the first phase. A movement towards an inte-
grated rural development project involving several crops (paras 1.14 and 1.18)
is a possibility although concentration on rice would most likely remain.



- 25 -
3.13       Project Buildings.  The following construction works would be
undertaken: in Conakry, an office for ONADER and three houses for expatriate
staff; at each of the research stations, housing, a simple office and labora-
tory and storage facilities; at Gueckedou, the project headquarters which
would include an office block, staff housing, a workshop, hangars for equip-
ment and storage, a small laboratory for the field trial program, a training
center, a seed processing plant and diesel operated facilities for generation
of electricity. The Gueckedou project headquarters would be located on the
Gueekedou-Kissidougou road two km north of Gueckedou town. This location has
a suitable site for the buildings and is close enough to the town to make use
of the town's forthcoming water supply system (civil works for this are about
to begin and are scheduled to be ready by the end of PY1), and to a source of
labor. It would also be within a convenient distance (3 km) to seed farm
fields. The ONADER office would be built on vacant land immediately adjacent
to the Ministry of Agriculture. All constructions would be standardized as
far as possible following construction plans successfully used previously in
Guinea. Construction work would be undertaken by contractors starting in PY1
and to be finished by early PY2. Buildings for the possible research sub-
station in the Gaoual/Koundara Zone (para 2.06) would be delayed until satis-
factory initial implementation of the research program at the other stations
had been demonstrated. Buildings for this station are expected to be con-
structed during PYs 2/3 and would probably be arranged through an addendum
to the contract(s) for the main building program. Government has made satis-
factory arrangements for the services of an architect for detailed design,
evaluation of bids and occasional visits during the construction period, and
design work is underway. Arrangements for detailed supervision of construc-
tions by a qualified Guinean engineer would be made by Government.
IV. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
Project Costs
4.01       Project costs net-of-taxes are estimated at US$19.6 million (syli
392 million) of which US$15.3 million (syli 307 million) or 78% of project
costs represents foreign exchange (Table 1). Cost estimates do not include
taxes: goods and services imported directly for the project would be tax
exempt, salaries are untaxed and fuel and lubricant costs have been calculated
net-of-taxes (para 4.04) at estimated c.i.f. prices plus internal storage and
distribution costs.
4.02       Project costs were estimated in dollars for all imported items
and services and in sylis for local salaries and locally purchased items.
Base costs for equipment include an initial stock of spare parts. Conversion
between dollars and sylis is at the official exchange rate of syli 20:US$.
Base costs in Table 1 are expressed in mid 1979 terms. Further details



- 26 -
are given in Annex 1, Table 1. Project investments for buildings amount to
US$2.4 million or 15% of project base costs. The estimated costs of the
project's technical assistance positions (salaries, overheads and fees), range
from US$75,000 to US$96,000 per man year averaging US$90,000 and aggregating
to US$2.6 million. The costs of short term consultancy arrangements are
estimated at US$11,000 per man month. Consultant fees for the Upper Guinea
project preparation study and the pricing study amount to US$0.6 million, and
other consultancy arrangements (para 3.06) make up a further US$0.6 million.
The total technical assistance costs of the project therefore aggregate to
US$3.8 million or 24% of project base costs. The total cost of the evaluation
unit at Gueckedou would be US$170,000 or 2% of the base costs of the pilot
project.  Physical and price contingencies were calculated as follows:



- 27 -
Table 1: PROJECT COST ESTIMATES
(net-of-taxes)
% of
Syli '000               US$ Million       Base
Foreign  Local  Total   Foreign Local Total   Cost
A. National Components
ONADER                     40,600   8,237  48,837    2.0    0.4   2.4        16
Upper Guinea Project
Preparation Study         8,551      172   8,723    0.4      /a   0.4       3
Agricultural Prices
and Incentives Study      7,180      156   7,336    0.4      /a   0.4       2
Field Trials Program       23,953  13,802  37,755    1.2    0.7   1.9        12
Fellowships                 6,904        -   6,904    0.4    -      0.4       2
Consultancy Services       12,027        -  12,027    0.6    -      0.6       4
Subtotal              99,215  22,367 121,582    5.0    1.1   6.1        39
B. Gueckedou Pilot Project
Management and Evalua-
tion Services             4,176   8,488  12,664    0.2    0.4   0.6         4
Extension                   4,062   4,160   8,222    0.2    0.2   0.4         3
Training                    1,555   2,020   3,575    0.1    0.1   0.2         1
Field Trials                9,050   2,763  11,813    0.4    0.2   0.6         4
Seed Multiplication        35,852   8,471  44,323    1.8    0.4   2.2        14
Land Development, Feeder
Roads and Equipment
Maintenance              42,167  11,630  53,797    2.1    0.6   2.7        17
Farm Inputs and
Equipment                15,668        -  15,668    0.8    -      0.8       5
HQ Construction and
Operations               34,080   8,372  42,452    1.7    0.4   2.1        13
Subtotal             146,610  45,904 192,514    7.3    2.3   9.6        61
TOTAL BASE COST              245,825  68,271 314,096   12.3    3.4  15.7    100
Contingencies:
Physical                    14,085   3,911  17,996    0.7    0.2   0.9
Price Escalation            46,808  13,000  59,808    2.3    0.7   3.0
Subtotal              60,893  16,911  77,804    3.0    0.9   3.9
TOTAL PROJECT COST           306,718  85,182 391,900   15.3    4.3  19.6
/a   Less than US$50,000.



- 28 -
(a) physical contingencies of 10% were applied to all costs
except local salaries and technical assistance costs; and
(b) allowances for expected increases in prices were applied,
at a per annum rate of 7% for civil works, technical
assistance and fellowships and 6% for all other project
costs. These rates are based on anticipated international
inflation rates as most project costs are foreign expendi-
tures and price increases for local costs are expected
to be approximately in line with international rates.
Physical contingencies amount to US$0.9 million and price contingencies
US$3.0 million.
Proposed Financing
4.03      An IDA credit of US$10.4 million is proposed to finance 53% of net-
of-tax project costs, or 68% of the project's foreign exchange costs. Addi-
tionally, the African Development Fund (ADF) would contribute US$4.9 million
equivalent or 25% of net-of-tax project costs. The two institutions would
thus finance the project's foreign exchange cost of US$15.3 million or 78%
of net-of-tax project costs. Financing terms for ADF would be similar to
those applicable to the IDA credit. It would be a condition of effectiveness
for the IDA credit that the financing agreement between Government and ADF had
been concluded satisfactorily.
4.04      A proposed financing plan is at Table 2.  Financing is on a parallel
basis with the exception of the contract for the project's technical assis-
tance staff which would be financed pari-passu in the proportions IDA 33%:
ADF 67%. Financing of items that may require the use of the projects re-
volving fund in foreign exchange (para 4.09) would be entirely by IDA.
Government's contribution to total project costs of syli 114 million (US$5.7
million) would cover; (i) all local salaries and wages (syli 56 million or
US$2.8 million); (ii) 25% of construction costs (syli 14 million or US$0.7
million); (iii) some locally manufactured items such as furnishings and local
mark-ups on centrally procured items such as fertilizer (syli 4 million or
US$0.2 million); and (iv) local mark-ups on import prices of fuel and lubri-
cants (syli 40 million or US$2.0 million). Government's US$2.0 million
contribution to fuel and lubricant costs covers an estimated US$0.6 million
for storage and distribution, the remaining US$1.4 million being a tax
on the c.i.f. price. Exclusive of this tax, Government's contribution would
amount to syli 86 million or US$4.3 million.



- 29 -
Table 2: FINANCING PLAN
(US$ Million)
Financing           IDA
Percentages /a Disbursement /b
IDA   ADF   Govt.   Total   IDA   ADF         Categories
Equipment, Vehicles, Spare
Parts, Furnishings and
Farm Inputs (except
Fertilizer)                 5.3   -      0.1      5.4    100    -             4.5
Technical Assistance
Contract                    1.0   2.2   -         3.2     33    67            0.8
Fellowships and Consultants  2.1   -       -        2.1    100    -             1.8
Fuel and Lubricants            2.0   -     2.0 /c  4.0 /c  50    -              1.7
Constructions                 -      2.2   0.7      2.9     -    100            -
Fertilizer                     -     0.5   0.1      0.6     -    100
Local Salaries                 -     -      2.8     2.8      -     -            -
Unallocated                                                                     1.6
TOTAL /c                      10.4   4.9   5.7 /c 21.0 /c                      10.4
Total net-of-tax              10.4   4.9   4.3    19.6                         10.4
/a   of foreign costs except for fuel and lubricants where financing percentage
refers to total costs.
/b   Adjusted to take account of unallocated expenditures (para. 4.07).
Amounts include reimbursement of PPF expenditures.
/c   Including Government mark-ups on fuel and lubricant costs (para 4.04) of
US$2.0 million of which US$0.6 million represents estimated storage and
distribution costs and a further US$1.4 million a tax element.
Project Preparation Facility
4.05      A provision of US$300,000 has been made under the project prepara-
tion facility (PPF) to cover the following expenditures involving key early
activities anticipated to require financing prior to loan effectiveness:
(i) preparation of detailed design and bidding documents and
assistance with evaluation and award of tenders for con-
structions (US$190,000);
(ii) training courses for senior management staff (US$30,000);
and
(iii) purchase of initial vehicles and equipment for ONADER
management (US$40,000).



- 30 -
The above estimates amount to US$260,000 to which contingencies of US$40,000
have been added. Disbursements against consultant contract costs for archi-
tectural design work (para 3.13), and disbursements against the fellowship
program (para 3.08) and vehicle and equipment purchases are expected to begin
in October 1979.
Procurement
4.06      All contracts over US$50,000 for vehicles and equipment would be
awarded through international competitive bidding in accordance with IDA
guidelines (estimated total cost US$4.3 million). Materials, vehicles and
equipment that cannot be grouped in packages of at least US$50,000 each,
or are not suitable for ICB, would be procured under local competitive bid-
ding procedures acceptable to IDA, or through negotiated purchase on the
basis of local price quotations (US$0.5 million). Fuel and lubricants
(US$4.0 million of which IDA's contribution would be US$2.0 million) would
be procured through contracts arranged with ONAH, Government's central
importing agency for petroleum goods. Certain minor materials, furnishings
and small equipment which are currently obtained through centralized Govern-
ment importing agencies would continue to be purchased through this mechanism
(estimated total cost US$0.5 million). Arrangements for the hiring of inter-
nationally recruited staff (US$3.2 milliDn of which IDA US$1.0 million), for
short term consultant services (US$1.6 million) and for training fellowships
(US$0.5 million) would be handled under procedures satisfactory to IDA.
Procurement arrangements for construction contracts, which would be financed
by ADF, are expected to be through standard ICB procedures. Fertilizer, also
financed by ADF, would be procured through contracts arranged with ENISEP,
Government's central fertilizer importing agency, in an analogous manner to
the arrangements applicable to fuel and lubricants.
Disbursement
4.07      The IDA credit would be disbursed over 5-1/2 years to cover:
(i)  100% of foreign expenditures for vehicles, equipment,
spare parts, furnishings and seasonal inputs excluding
fertilizer (US$4.5 million);
(ii)  33% of foreign expenditures against the contract for
technical assistance staff (US$0.8 million);
(iii)  100% of foreign expenditures for the fellowship program
and for other consultant services (US$1.8 million); and
(iv)  50% of the costs of fuel and lubricants (YJS$1.7 million).
US$1.6 million would be unallocated. A schedule of disbursements is at
Annex I, Table 2. Categories (i) and (iii) include the US$300,000 to
refund PPF expenditures. All disbursements would be fully documented.



- 31 -
Financing Procedures and Revolving Funds
4.08      The project would have a centralized financing system administered
through ONADER although separate bookkeeping would be maintained by ORG
management for the Gueckedou pilot project and by ONADER for the national
components. ORG would have effective autonomy in establishing its require-
ments and keeping accounting records, with ONADER HQ playing a general super-
visory role and serving as a Conakry liason office. An account for local
expenditures would be maintained with the "Banque Nationale de Developpement
Agricole" (BNDA) and for foreign expenditures with the "Banque Guineenne du
Commerce Exterieur" (BGCE).
4.09      Most foreign exchange expenditures would be financed by IDA and ADF
through direct payments to suppliers (Procedure III); a system which would
allow the BGCE's foreign exchange account for the project to be held at a
minimum. Some foreign exchange held by BGCE would however be necessary for
the financing of certain items and materials purchased directly by the project
and for the direct financing of some fellowships and short term consultant
services. To provide the flexibility to finance such items, a revolving fund
in foreign exchange equivalent to US$100,000 would be established within the
BGCE immediately after project effectiveness through a withdrawal of this
amount from the IDA Credit. IDA would replenish the account upon receipt
of evidence of disbursements from the fund for allowable expenditures. Should
any disbursements be made from the revolving fund that are not acceptable to
IDA, Government would be responsible for replenishing the fund in the corre-
sponding amount. Assurances to this effect were provided during negotiations.
As all expenditures eligible for disbursement against this fund would be
financed by IDA, ADF would not participate in this arrangement.
4.10      Requirements in local currency would be estimated quarterly and
would form the basis upon which the local currency account with the Banque
Nationale de Developpement Agricole (BNDA) would be maintained. An assurance
was obtained from Government during negotiations that sufficient funds would
be provided by Government for this purpose in accordance with ONADER and
ORG management's estimated requirements.  Quarterly requirements in local
currency are estimated to range from sylis 4 to 5 million (about US$225,000).
As a condition of effectiveness, Government would be required to deposit sylis
5 million with BNDA to cover the project's initial estimated requirements.
Reporting Requirements and Auditing
4.11      Each year, an annual report would be prepared by ONADER and submitted
to Government and the colenders for comment and approval. The report would be
submitted not later than March 31 of each year, three months after the end of
the financial year (January 1 to December 31). The report would contain a
description of the past 12 months activities, achievements realized, and a
comparison against targets set at appraisal and at the beginning of the year.



- 32 -
Targets for the forthcoming 12-month period would also be proposed. The
report would be accompanied by an estimated budget for the forthcoming 12
months separated by main cost items, and detailed costings for the previous
financial year. The report would be sufficiently detailed to provide a
meaningful assessment of the past year's progress and of financial, managerial
and technical needs by project sub-activity during the forthcoming year. It
would form the basis of a dialogue between Goverument and IDA on project
progress, requirements and future orientation, and for the reservation of
sufficient working capital requirements in local currency with BNDA (para
4.10).  In order to ensure adequate advance arrangements for the ordering of
equipment and materials, a list of such items required during the forthcoming
12 month period would be prepared and agreed with the project's management and
the Minister of Agriculture during IDA's project supervision. These lists,
which would receive continual updating during the course of supervision, would
form the basis for the issuance of any necessary import licences by the "Com-
mission Nationale des Licences," for the reservation of stocks or reordering
of centrally procured items and for the preparation of bidding documents or
for local comparative shopping procedures. Additional specific reporting
requirements for project sub-components are described in paras 2.09, 3.07 and
3.11. The above procedures were discussed and agreed during negotiations
including agreement on a pro forma for the layout and content of the annual
report (project file).
4.12      Not later than three months after the end of the financial year
(March 31), project accounts for the past year approved by the Ministry of
Agriculture together with an audit report prepared by the Ministre de Controle
d'Etat (MCE) would be submitted to IDA. The MCE functions in Guinea as an
independent auditor and the thoroughness of its procedures has been demon-
strated in connection with the Daboya Pineapple Project. The audit report
would include specific verification of the legitimacy of all expenditures
utilizing the foreign exchange revolving fund. Auditing would be through
procedures satisfactory to IDA.  Assurances on the above matters were obtained
from Government during negotiations. Additionally, in the event that, due to
institutional changes, Government should wish to change during the course of
project execution the current proposed arrangements involving the MCE, agree-
ment was reached that the proposed alternative would be discussed with
IDA and should be acceptable to IDA.
Credit Arrangements
4.13      The provision of agricultural credit in Guinea is currently under
the responsibility of the BNDA which, due to lack of field offices and staff,
operates mainly through the use of intermediaries for the administration of
credit operations, its own role being generally restricted to that of providing
funds and bearing risks. A similar arrangement would be applicable for provi-
sion of credit for the pilot project although measures would be explored during
the pilot project period for the eventual take-over of credit administration at
Gueckedou by BNDA. Inputs supplied on credit to pilot project participants
would be: fertilizer, improved seed and spare parts for machinery on seasonal
credit, and trailers, seed drills, rice hullers and improved swamplands on



- 33 -
medium term (3 years) credit. The pilot project's credit unit would act on
behalf of BNDA for credit approval, administration, bookkeeping and delivery
of supplies. The credit unit would be assisted by the PRL central committees
which would act as intermediate bookkeeping and distribution agencies and have
overall responsibility for credit repayments on behalf of their cooperative
and individual farmers. PRL cadres would be trained and supervised by the
credit unit. The project's credit unit would consist of a credit officer
equipped with a pick-up, plus clerical support staff and a mobile team of 5
credit agents equipped with motorcycles. Credit agents would liaise closely
with the project's extension staff and PRL officials in assessing input
requirements by PRL and the monitoring of credit reimbursements. Transport
would be provided by the project for this purpose and would deliver supplies
to each PRL on scheduled delivery days. Simple storage sheds would be made
by PRL members for temporary storage of inputs prior to distribution to
farmers. Most credit reimbursements would be made during the harvest period
using the credit unit's pick up (equipped with a safe) for the handling of
cash receipts. An alternative arrangement for credit recovery, which would
be used where feasible, would be through deductions on credit recipient's
sales of paddy or rice to the Entreprise Regionale du Commerce (ERC).
4.14      Items supplied on credit would be charged at ORG's purchase cost
(delivered Gueckedou).  Exceptions to this would firstly be improved seed
which would be provided at a price not less than Government's purchase price
of paddy or in exchange for bags of farmer's paddy which would subsequently
be sold by the project to Government (para 2.19), and secondly, the invest-
ment costs for swampland improvements which would be charged at a calculated
average cost of swampland Improvements (para 2.22, US$730 per ha in 1979
terms). Current interest rates applicable in Guinea would be charged. These
are presently 6% for short term (seasonal) credit and 7% for medium term
credit. These rates would be applied on top of a mark-up of 5% on ORG deliv-
ery prices for seasonal inputs and of 10% for other inputs and for the pro-
rata fee for swampland improvements supplied on medium term credit. These
mark-ups would result in an effective interest rate of about 12% per annum in
both cases -- a rate estimated to cover the rate of inflation and credit
administration costs. Reimbursement of credit -- including price mark-ups and
interest -- would be made through the project's credit service to BNDA.  Such
funds would be allocated towards the build-up of BNDA reserves for future
credit funding operations. The above arrangements were discussed and agreed
with Government during negotiations. It was further agreed that a model
credit contract for use between BNDA, the ORG credit service and credit
recipients would be submitted to IDA not later than June 30, 1980, for its
comment and approval. An assurance was provided by Government that credit
arrangements would be through procedures satisfactory to IDA.



- 34 -
V.  MARKETS, PRICES, FARMER BENEFITS AND PRODUCTION
Prices and Marketing
5.01      During the early 1970s, Guinea imported about 30,000 t of rice
per annum, about 12% of its annual estimated consumption of 240,000 t.  Due
partly to poor domestic harvests, imports were higher during.1977 and 1978
and are estimated to have averaged 50,000 t or 20% of consumption. Guinea's
average import bill for rice during the 1970s is estimated at about US$10
million annually. In addition, Guinea imported other food staples such as
wheat flour (10,000 t per year). The economic value of project output is
based on forecasts of international prices and on the assumption that Guinea
would remain an importer of rice.
5.02      World market prices for rice are forecasted to increase from the
1975-78 average of US$350/t to US$410/t and US$425/t by 1990 (1978 constant
terms, reference quality Thai 5% broken, FOB Bangkok). Project production
(Annex 1, Table 6) has been valued at these prices with a 20% markdown to
reflect the lower quality rice (25% broken) that Guinea is anticipated to
import. Farmgate paddy, after taking into account transportation, milling,
collection and bagging costs, would have a value of about US$260/t which is
equivalent to about 5 sylis/kg at the official exchange rate of sylis 20:US$.
5.03      Rice marketing is nominally handled by state institutions.  The
"Pouvoir Revolutionaire Local" (PRL) purchases from the farmer at 9 sylis/kg
for paddy and 15 sylis/kg for rice and subsequently sells to the ERC (monopoly
purchaser of agricultural produce with stores distributed throughout the
country) at 11 sylis and 18 sylis per kg of paddy or rice respectively.
In turn, the ERC sells to ECOMA (Government stores for the sale of consumer
goods and foodstuffs to consumers) which sells to the final consumer at
20 sylis/kg rice. Imports are purchased by IMPORTEX (the monopoly importer
for agricultural produce) which sells the rice to ECOMA and this in turn
to the final consumer, again at 20 sylis/kg. Markups between the various
institutions are designed to approximately cover their respective operating
costs (handling, transport, milling) with profits or losses being absorbed
by the State.
5.04      State marketing of domestically produced rice represents, however,
only about 10% of total production, the majority being consumed on the farm
(80%) or sold in the parallel market (para 1.08) which is estimated to have a
sales volume about as large as the official market. A substantial proportion
of parallel market sales move across the borders in exchange for consumer
goods. Prices at which rice can be sold on the parallel market in Guinea
(typically about 50 sylis/kg rice) bear a close relationship to the accessi-
bility of a national frontier tending to be higher where opportunities for
border trade are better, even in production surplus areas such as Gueekedou.
The strong presence of the parallel market is symptomatic of the lack of
officially marketed consumer goods in Guinea and the disparity between the
official pricing structure and exchange rate and real market values. With



- 35 -
the exception of the price of coffee which was doubled in 1977, official
prices for agricultural produce have remained unchanged during the past
decade. These prices, when related to their purchasing power for consumer
goods, are low and provide producers with little incentive to sell to Govern-
ment. The level of Guinea's recent imports of food staples -- in particular
rice -- and the poor performance of traditional export crops may be substan-
tially attributable to this situation. The agricultural incentive and pricing
study (para 2.12) wou1d address the price distortion problem described above
in order to provide recommendations to Government on price restructuring
measures. In the meantime, it would be unwise to make detailed recommenda-
tions to Government given the considerable economic ramifications stemming
from a major pricing policy overhaul. Directionally, however, increases in
producer prices appear appropriate.
5.05      For farmers in the pilot project area, Government provided an
assurance during negotiations that it would take any appropriate measures
necessary to provide them with the financial incentive to participate in the
project. Such measures wuld include placing priority on the provision of
consumer goods to Government's ECCMA store at Gueckedou. Consumer goods are
sold in EC(MA stores at Government set prices which, like farm output prices,
are substantially below prices on the parallel market. In the past however,
the limited stocks and variety of goods sold through ECOMA has not been
sufficient to provide an incentive to earn sylis through farm output sales to
Government. While the range of commodities offered by Government has not been
able to compete as yet with the variety of goods offered for sale in the
parallel market, maintenance of full stocks at Gueckedou, particularly at
harvest time, in as wide a range of goods as possible would help provide added
incentives to producers in the pilot project area.
Farmer Benefits
5.06      The influence of the project on farmer incomes is illustrated
in Annex 1, Table 4 with summary details tabulated in para 5.08. Farm budgets
are based on official output prices and, for smallholders, are therefore
understatements of the actual gains they can expect to obtain if they sell
through the parallel market.  Currently, the typical smallholder with about
1.5 ha of upland rice and 0.5 ha of swampland rice (para 1.19) obtains paddy
yields of about 700 kg/ha and 1,000 kg/ha respectively and produces a total of
1,550 kg paddy or 950 kg rice equivalent after deductions for next year's
seed. At an estimated per capita rice consumption of 100 kg/head/year (the
balance of caloric intake being made up by cassava and maize, supplemented
with fruits and vegetables) and a family size of eight, the bulk of this (800
kg rice) is consumed on the farm with a small residual available for off farm
sales. Valuing all rice produced at official prices, net returns from rice
production without the project are sylis 5,600 and sylis 8,300 per ha and
sylis 52 and sylis 94 per manday for upland and swampland rice respectively.
The proposed improvements would progressively increase net returns. At full
development (stage III upland, stage IV swampland after repayment of land
development costs), returns under the project would increase significantly:
sylis 10,000 and sylis 21,900 per ha or sylis 85 and sylis 146 per manday.
Net farm returns from rice would be sylis 26,000 or sylis 100 per manday as



- 36 -
compared to current farm returns from rice at sylis 12,600 and sylis 62 per
manday. Total farm output would be 3.2 t paddy or 2.1 t rice equivalent which
would provide a surplus beyond family requirements of 1.3 t rice.
5.07      For farmer cooperatives, the current scale of operations (about
45 ha) and yields obtained (400 kg/ha) produces a minimal surplus after
machinery amortization and driver wages are taken into account: only sylis
13/manday or sylis 21,000 per cooperative. Project induced increases in
yields together with increases in cultivated area made possible by maintenance
of machinery and by the greater incentives resulting from higher yields would
substantially improve matters. Net returns to the cooperative, after taking
into account average costs for equipment renewals and spare parts, would
increase to nearly sylis 600,000 (US$30,000). On a per manday basis returns
would be about sylis 113 which is about midway between returns per manday from
improved smallholder upland rice (sylis 85/md) and smallholder swampland rice
(sylis 146/md).
5.08      For both smallholders and the cooperatives, progression through
intermediate crop development stages involves a steady upward movement of
net remunerations as follows:
Net Returns by Crop Development Stage
Production System             Crop Devt. Stage      Per Ha      Per Manday
(sylis '000)   (sylis)
Smallholder Upland Rice            I (without project)        6           52
il t "      TII (with project)          7           62
Ir "  "III ("             "  )         10           85
Smallholder Swampland Rice         I (without project)        8           94
II (with project)         14          116
III (  "     "   )          18         130
IV (  "     "   )         22          146
(Per Cooperative)(Per Manday)
Cooperatives                       I  (45 ha)(w.out proj.) 21             13
IIa (45 ha)(with proj.)  57            27
IIb (60 ha)(    "   ')  159            48
III  (75 ha)(    "   ")  576           113
5.09      The increased remunerations induced from participation in the
project would be attractive in relation to current on-farm remunerations and
rural wage levels. Laborers can be hired by local farmers for land prepara-
tion of swampland rice at sylis 50 plus one meal per manday. At parallel
market prices, remunerations would be considerably higher than the estimates
provided above and the proportional difference between current returns and
with project returns would also be greater. Furthermore, risks to project
participants would be low. The new techniques would reduce yield fluctuations



-37 -
and input costs would be a small proportion of gross revenues (less than 10%
for smallholder upland rice, about 20% for smallholder swamp rice and remaining
at about one-third for mechanized brigades during loan repayments on equipment
purchases) thus shielding net returns from major changes due to annual yield
variations. The incentive for farmers to adopt project recommendations
appears, therefore, to be present although without revisions to Government
pricing policy, much of the increased output achieved by pilot project parti-
cipants may not reach the official marketing channel (para 6.13).
Project Production
5.10      The current average production of the pilot project area's 3,000
farming families and their 12 mechanized cooperatives is about 4,900 t paddy
per annum. As their existing technology has reached a productivity ceiling
and extraneous factors which might influence labor inputs such as a change
in prices cannot be anticipated, their output is assumed to remain at this
level without the project's influence. The project's technical improvements
would be made available to all interested persons. In view of the simplicity
of these improvements and the increased remunerations stemming from their
usage it is likely that they would be adopted by practically all farming
families and by all of the mechanized cooperatives. Accordingly, participa-
tion is assumed at 100% for the cooperatives and 90% (2,700 families) for
individual farms, although this assumption is tested for sensitivity to lower
participation rates in the economic analysis. Incorporation of project
participants is anticipated to be as follows:
Individual Farms        Farmer Cooperatives
New   Cumulative      New          Cumulative
PY2           700       700            12            12
PY3         1,000    1,700              -            12
PY4         1,000    2,700              -            12
PY5            -      2,700             -            12
5.11      Participants would pass through several crop development stages
geared to the evolution of seed farm output and of the engineering works
in the swamplands. This phasing would give participants time to adjust
production systems gradually and would also place less demands on project
management and technical staff during the early stages of project imple-
mentation. By PY4, all participating farmers and the 12 cooperatives
would be expected to have reached final crop development stages. Yields
and crop development stages are provided at Annex I, Table 3 and a
detailed project participation and production schedule at Annex I, Table 5.
A summary of the total anticipated production of pilot project participants
is provided below:



- 38 -
Smallholder  Smallholder      Farmer        Total      Incremental
Upland      Swampland   Cooperatives  Production   Production
----------------(in t paddy)---------------------------
PYI     3,150         1,500           216          4,866          base
PY2     3,360         1,745           297          5,402            536
PY3     3,660         2,175           468          6,303          1,437
PY4     5,377         3,185           825          9,387          4,521
PY5     5,377         3,335           675 /a       9,387          4,521
/a   Three cooperatives diverted for seed production.
Full output by pilot project participants is estimated to be achieved in
PY4 with a total project production of 9,400 t paddy per annum representing an
incremental production of 4,500 t paddy. Beyond that period, a second
phase project could build further on the productivity of pilot project parti-
cipants and also expand into a larger area. The nature of such a development
would depend upon experience during the pilot project. Forecasts of project
production beyond PY5 are therefore not detailed here, although in the
economic analysis of Chapter VI, provisional estimates have been made to
illustrate the economic rate of return stemming from a follow-up project.
VI. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
6.01      The project would help to reduce critical constraints impeding
the realization of Guinea's priority objective to develop its high potential
but currently low output rice sector. Many of these constraints stem from
the lack of qualified and experienced manpower and of technological know-how
in the country (para 1.08). Accordingly, the national components of the
project (US$6.1 million or 39% of project base costs) are aimed at reducing
these constraints. ONADER (US$3.0 million or 20% of project base costs
including consultancy services) would provide the Ministry of Agriculture
with a properly staffed and equipped unit to plan and coordinate Guinea's
rural development objectives. The agronomic research program (US$1.9 million,
12%) would provide a basis for agronomic recommendations and demonstrations
in high potential rice development areas and, eventually, nucleus sites for
activities such as seed multiplication. The pricing study (US$0.4 million,
2%) would provide the foundation for future realignment of Guinea's pricing
structure: a major constraint to agricultural productivity. The project
preparation study (US$0.4 million, 3%) would establish the necessary prepara-
tions for a future agricultural project in the high potential Upper Guinea
area. The fellowship program (US$0.4 million, 2%) would provide relevant
technical training for Guinean cadres.
6.02      In parallel with these measures, the pilot project at Gueckedou
(US$9.6 million, 61%) would initiate a rice development program in Guinea's



- 39 -
fertile Forest Region and provide technical and managerial experience for
future implementation of other rice development projects elsewhere in Guinea.
The pilot project would include essential buildings and rural roads, a project
management unit and provisions for seed multiplication, field trials, exten-
sion and training services which would enable replication and expansion of the
project's activities after the pilot project period. Measures to increase
productivity would be tested and adapted, and senior and middle management
staffing would be built up. The pilot project would also serve as an example
and testing ground for the package approach to crop development that has
been implemented successfully under similar conditions elsewhere in West
Africa. Further, although the pilot project initially concentrates on rice, a
subsequent project could begin diversification into other crops as Guinea's
capacity to absorb a more broadly based rural development program increases.
Considerable potential for development of other crops exists in the Forest
Region where coffee, cocoa, maize and root crops grow well, but where
production has so far been suppressed by unfavorable crop prices and lack of
technology.
6.03      The project's national components (para 6.01) would be expected to
make a significant short and long term impact upon the development of Guinea's
rice sector although the nature of these benefits, being mainly concerned with
the strengthening of Guinea's institutional and technical base for future
rice development, precludes precise quantification. Quantification of costs
and benefits has therefore been done for the pilot project only. During the
pilot project period about 2,700 farming families, together with the 12 co-
operatives to which they also belong, would benefit from increased yields and
revenues (paras 5.05 to 5.08). Incremental production would reach about 4,500 t
paddy (about 3,000 t rice) per annum representing 10% of Guinea's average
annual imports of rice or US$1.4 million in foreign exchange.
6.04      Economic rates of return are presented in Table 3.  The economic
viability of the pilot project has been tested firstly assuming no further
development beyond the pilot project period and secondly on the assumption
that a second phase project would be embarked upon from PY6. In the analysis,
costs and benefits have been calculated over 20 years in sylis in constant
1978 terms. Local costs have been adjusted to border prices by a conversion
factor of 0.5 to reflect the existence of import tariffs and quantitative
import restrictions. Benefits and foreign costs which have been initially
measured in foreign currencies and converted to sylis at the official exchange
rate of sylis 20:US$ have been left unchanged. Farm labor is costed at sylis
50/manday based on current on-farm earnings and on wages paid to laborers by
farmers. Output is valued as at Annex I, Table 6. Tests of sensitivity to
these assumption are provided in Table 3. For the pilot project, farmer
participation is assumed as at Annex I Table 4 with no further farmer parti-
cipation or increase in yields after PY6. Assumptions concerning the follow-
up project are described in para 6.07.
6.05      If the pilot project were not followed by a second phase project
its economic rate of return would be about 13%. This assumes no further
increments in the yields of project participants and no increase in the number



- 40 -
of project participants after the project period, although some benefits are
assumed from the release of excess improved seed from the seed multiplication
farm to farmers outside the pilot project area.  Yield increments from the
release of improved seed have been taken at 100 kg paddy per ha for upland
seed and 200 kg paddy per ha for swampland seed. Seed distribution costs have
been taken at 10% of production costs and incremental labor required for
harvesting is costed on the basis of one manday per 50 kg paddy. If no
benefits are taken into account from seed release, the pilot project's rate of
return would be 6% due to the heavy investment cost associated with the seed
multiplication farm during the pilot project period. Alternative expressions
of the pilot project's rate of return have been made by subtracting from
pilot project costs a proportion of expenditures on activities primarily
intended as pre-investments for a follow-up project.  Rates of return of
between 10 and 12% result (Part 1 of Table 3). No benefits from improved seed
release have been taken into account in these two computations. The sensiti-
vity of the pilot project's rate of return, to the assumed level of participa-
tion in the pilot project is also illustrated in the table. At 75% of the
assumed participation level, the pilot project's rate of return would drop
from 13% to about 8%. At 50% participation levels, the rate of return would
fall to 1%.
6.06      The pilot project's economic viability is, however, best judged
uiithin the context upon which the pilot project has been designed. That is,
the assumption that the pilot project would be followed by a second phase
project making use of facilities created and experience gained during the
pilot project period. The exact scale and nature of a possible follow-up
project would depend upon results achieved during the pilot project and the
analysis is therefore indicative only. However, the analysis takes into
account variations in scale for the follow-up project. Further, although
the technical recommendations and yield increments are assumed in the analysis
to be the same as for the pilot project, changes in technical recommendations
in a follow-up project can be expected to enable greater and more cost-
efficient productivity increases per hectare. The combined economic rate of
return from the pilot project plus follow-up project would therefore be likely
to result in rates of return greater than the estimates provided here.
6.07      The calculation of the project's economic rate of return including
a follow-up project assumes a five year project from PYs 6 to 10 and includes
the three rice production systems recommended for the pilot project in ap-
proximately the same ratios between swamplands and uplands and cooperative and
individual enterprises as during the pilot phase. The assumed development
rate is as follows:
New Participants                   Cumulative Participants
Individual Farmers  Co-operatives   Individual Farmers  Co-operatives
PY6                1500                5                   1500                 5
PY7                2000                7                   3500                12
PY8                2500                8                   6000                20
PY9                2500                8                   8500                28
PYlO               2500                8                  11000                36
PYll and on          -                                    11000                36



- 41 -
Table 3: ECONOMIC RATES OF RETURN
Assumption
1.   Pilot Project Only                                                        ERR (%)
(a) full costing of all pilot project costs, no further
development beyond PY5, some benefits from release of
surplus improved seed from PY6 (para 6.05)                      12.8
(b) as (a) but excluding benefits from improved seed release         5.9
(c) as for (b) but excluding 50% of field trial and evaluation
unit costs and seed multiplication farm investment costs
not required for pilot project farmers                           9.6
(d) as for (c) but 50% salvage value on construction costs in
PY7                                                             12.0
(e) participation in pilot project and benefits from
seed release at:  75% of point estimate                          7.7
: 50% "    "       "                             1.0
2.   Pilot Project plus Follow-up Proiect
(a) point estimate (para 6.08)                                      20.3
(b) participation in follow-up project at:
75% of point estimate                                           16.4
50% "    "       "                                              11.4
(c) participation in both pilot project and
follow-up project at:  75% of point estimates                   14.3
50% "    "      "                        6.1
3.   Sensitivity (Pilot Project plus Follow-up Prolect):
- point estimate                                                     20.3
- value of output down 20%                                           13.6
- costs plus 10%, unit value of output down 20%                      10.7
- 75% realisation of participation rate in second phase, costs
plus 10%, unit value of output down 20%                            6.7
- farm labor at sylis 100/manday                                     15.1
- farm labor not costed                                              24.7
- shadow exchange rate of sylis 50:US$                              21.9
- shadow exchange rate of sylis 30:US$                               17.6



- 42 -
Total rice area covered would eventually be about 5,500 ha of swamplands and
16,500 ha of uplands cultivated by family farms and 2,700 ha of uplands
cultivated by cooperatives. Preliminary assessments indicate that such lands
would be available within the Gueckedou region alone and aerial photography,
which would be undertaken during the pilot project, would identify suitable
land areas for the expansion. The project's seed production capacity built up
during the pilot project would be able to furnish seed requirements for such a
development. Additional investments in staff housing and office space (50% of
pilot project construction costs) are allowed for together with increased
equipment requirements for swampland development and improvement of feeder
roads. Project services such as management, credit, extension and training
are also increased so as to offer services at the same levels as provided in
the pilot project. Three manyears per annum of technical assistance staff
are included from PYs 6 to 10.  Activities such as field trials and monitoring
and evaluation are also assumed to continue.
6.08      The economic rate of return that would result from the pilot project
plus follow-up development is estimated at about 20%. This is fairly re-
silient to shortfalls in participation rates. Thus, if the second phase
development incorporates 75% of the participants assumed in the analysis,
the economic rate of return would be about 16%. At 50% participation the
economic rate of return would be.about 11%. If participation levels in the
pilot project were also reduced, the rates of return would be 14% and 6% for
75% and 50% participation respectively.
6.09      Economic rates of return for each crop production system have not
been calculated as the allocation of central costs would introduce an arbi-
trary element into such an assessment. Instead, indicators are provided of
their individual viabilities through the presentation of farm budgets in
economic accounting prices taking into account directly allocable costs
only (farm labor, seed, fertilizer, equipment, equipment operating costs and
swampland development costs). Analytical assumptions are as at para 6.04.
Improved seed and the cost of swampland development have been calculated at
average per kg and per ha costs including allowances for equipment amortiza-
tion. Results are presented in Table 4.
6.10      Under project improvements, net economic benefits per hectare
increase by US$90 or by four times for smallholder upland rice; by US$200 or
2-1/2 times for smallholder swamp rice stage III; and by US$290 or over 3
times for swampland stage IV. Stage IV swamp rice involves a deficit in the
first year due to the costs of land development but this would be outweighed
by subsequent year benefits yielding an incremental. rate of return for stage
IV, on stage III of 18%. The mechanized cooperatives are currently estimated
to make an economic loss.  The project is expected to result in substantial
economic improvements: from an economic deficit of US$4,700 per cooperative
to a surplus of US$1,900. During the pilot project period, measures to
further increase the economic viability of the three crop production systems
would be explored. Of particular concern are the cooperatives which on a per
hectare basis are estimated to still have lower returns than those of small-
holders after project improvements. Target areas for the further improvement



- 43 -
of the cooperatives would be: the reduction of labor requirements for weeding
through chemical or mechanical means; reductions in labor requirements for
harvesting through the introduction of harvesting equipment (the three coopera-
tives selected to assist the seed multiplication farm would provide a test
case for this); attempts to increase cooperative yields through better crop
husbandry to similar levels to those of smallholders; and, expansion of
cultivated area which would spread equipment amortization overheads. If ways
to further improve the economic performance of the cooperatives cannot be
found during the pilot project period, the possible follow-up project would
do best to concentrate efforts on smallholder production.
Table 4: ECONOMIC BENEFITS BY CROP PRODUCTION SYSTEM (US$) a/ b/
Without
Project     ------- With Proiect ---------
Smallholder Upland rice  (per ha)       29  (I)                116 (III)
Smallholder Swamp rice   (per ha)    131  (I)    326 (III)                  416 (IV)
Cooperatives Upland rice (per ha)   (103) (I)                   25 (III)
(per coop)(4660) (I)               1898 (III)
a/   "Economic Benefits" defined as follows:  economic value of output
(yields as at Annex I, Table 3, unit values as at Annex I, Table 6)
minus variable costs expressed in economic accounting prices.
Variable costs include farm labor, seed, fertilizer, equipment,
equipment operating costs and swampland development costs. Project
File, Table B5 for details.
b/   Roman numerals refer to crop development stage (para. 2.15 and Annex
1, Table 3); figures for Stage I cooperatives are negatives.
6.11      Risks.  Successful project implementation would depend critically
upon Government's commitment and success in providing high calibre project
management personnel with substantial autonomy and upon the support that the
Ministry of Agriculture and associated bodies connected with planning,
finance and procurement would provide to project management. The administra-
tive and financing procedures proposed for the project, and the conditions
and assurances obtained during negotiations are designed to facilitate these
matters. In view of the lead technical roles that the project's expatriate
personnel would play during the project period, the caliber of these persons
would also be critical and their experience and qualifications would be
carefully assessed by Government and IDA both prior to hiring and during
implementation. Finally, for the ONADER work program and the studies, where
ongoing progress is less easily defined than for the pilot project there is
some danger of dilution of efforts or inappropriate target objectives. Care-
fully defined objectives that would be continually updated during project
supervision and the project's reporting requirements (para 4.11) would mini-
mize this danger.



- 44 -
6.12      At Gueekedou, in addition to the above considerations, there are
the usual risks associated with introducing new technology, without support-
ing field trials and detailed sociological studies in the area concerned.
Pilot project proposals have taken account of this situation by providing
recommendations that are technically and conceptually simple and which do
not require significant departures from the existing farming systems.  Incre-
mental per hectare costs have also been kept low resulting in low risks to
project participants from adopting project recommendations (para 5.09).
6.13      The main risk for the pilot project centers around the rural incen-
tive problem described in paras 1.08 and 5.04. Official prices for agricul-
tural produce are currently insufficient to encourage farmers to sell their
produce to Government. Accordingly, while producer returns measured at
official prices can be substantially increased through participation in the
project (para 5.08), a judgment as to whether official marketing channels
alone would provide adequate incentives to project participants depends upon
economic parameters beyond the pilot project management's control. At the
heart of the problem are the economic distortions currently existing in
Guinea. The parallel market (para 1.08) is both symptomatic of this problem
and also a partial solution. If economic and administrative circumstances in
Guînea allow continued opportunities for selling on the parallel market, the
incentive to participate in the project is substantially improved. However,
two drawbacks are apparent. Firstly, Government's objective to reduce its
food import bill would not be met. Secondly, the project's economic rate of
return would be lower. Thus, the unit value of project output would be likely
to be reduced because the value of output -- as reflected in the consumer
goods that parallel market sales can buy -- would probably be lower due to
transportation inefficiencies and merchant markups in neighboring countries.
A 20% lowering of output values, which yields a 14% rate of return for the
pilot project plus assumed second phase development, is estimated to encompass
the likely differential.
6.14      The complete solution to this risk would be through resolving the
price distortions currently found in Guinea. The pricing study, which is
expected to have results available by PY3 (the first year of significant
farmer involvement in the project), would provide Government with recommenda-
tions to adjust for such imbalances. In the meantime, full stocking of
Government's store at Gueekedou (para 5.05) and continuation of parallel
market activities in Guinea should offer the incentives necessary to induce
farmers to take up the project's technical recommendations. A further
encouraging sign is the significant progress towards normalization of the
Guinean economy that has occurred over the past two to three years. Thus, in
1975, Guinea's exchange rate was judged to be over-valued by about six times
in comparison to the present situation where the syli is estimated to have an
economic accounting value of about twice the official exchange rate.



- 45 -
VII. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION
7.01      During negotiations, assurances were obtained from Government on
the following:
(a) land required for project buildings, the seed farm and for swampland
improvement would be made available in accordance with an agreed
schedule, and farmers already cultivating swamplands chosen for
improvement would be allowed the option to continue cultivation of
their parcels after the improvements have been made (para 1.24);
(b) terms of reference for the agricultural pricing study, the technical
assistance positions, the evaluation unit and arrangements for the
training fellowship program were agreed (paras 2.13, 3.04, 3.08 and
3.11);
(c) for the applied rice research program: (i) sites for the research
stations acceptable to IDA would be confirmed by Government not
later than November 30, 1979; (ii) an implementation program and
proposed field trials would be submitted to IDA for approval not
later than June 30, 1980; (iii) research results would be reported
annually; and, (iv) establishment of the Gaoual/Koundara station
would be contingent upon initial implementation, satisfactory to
IDA, of the program at the other stations (paras 2.06 and 2.09);
(d) for the pricing study: (i) an inter-Ministerial committee for liaison
with the consultants undertaking the study would be established not
later than December 31, 1979; (ii) all information and assistance
needed by the consultants w&uld be made available; (iii) the interim
findings of the study would be discussed regularly -- at least every
six months -- with IDA, and IDA's views and recommendations would be
taken into account; and, (iv) study conclusions would be reviewed
with IDA not later than March 31, 1982 (para 2.13);
(e)  for ONADER, it wDuld: (i) have autonomous control over its day-to-day
operations and resources under the Minister of Agriculture's sole
supervision; (ii) have direct access to the Minister at all times;
and, (iii) measures would be taken by Government if necessary to
prevent any interference by other Government departments or agencies
impeding ONADER from carrying out its project obligations (para
3.01);
(f) the key Guinean personnel described in para 3.03 would be appro-
priately qualified and experienced;
(g) selection of internationally recruited technical assistance staff
and consultants would be through procedures satisfactory to IDA and
would require IDA approval of the individuals or firms selected and
their final terms of reference (para 3.06);



- 46 -
(h) an outline training program for Gueckedou training center would
be provided for IDA's approval not later than June 30, 1980 (para
3.09);
(i) the TOR for the preparation of Gueckedou's second phase would be
agreed with IDA prior to hiring of the consultant (para 3.12);
(j) should any expenditures be made through the foreign exchange revolv-
ing fund that are not eligible under the project, Government would
replenish the revolving fund in the corresponding amount (para
4.09);
(k) Government would maintain sufficient local currency funds within the
project's account with BNDA to cover working capital requirements
(para 4.10);
(1) reporting requirements and procedures for the advance ordering of
equipment were agreed (para 4.11);
(m)  accounting and auditing procedures wre agreed and would be satis-
factory to IDA (para 4.12);
(n)  outline credit arrangements and interest rates to be applied were
agreed and it was agreed that a model credit contract for use
between BNDA, ORG and credit recipients would be submitted to IDA
for approval not later than June 30, 1980 (para 4.14);
(o) adequate financial incentives would be provided to pilot project
participants (para. 5.05).
7.02      Conditions of project effectiveness would be:
(a) satisfactory appointments to the positions of Director of ONADER and
Director of ORG (para 3.03);
(b) the signing of a satisfactory contract for the project's technical
assistance positions (para 3.05);
(c) conclusion of a satisfactory financing agreement between Government
and the African Development Fund (para 4.03); and
(d) the opening of an account in the BNDA with an initial deposit of
sylis 5 million (para 4.10).
7.03      As a condition of disbursement against the costs of the project
preparation study in Upper Guinea, IDA's approval would be required of ONADER's
recommendations for the orientation of the study and of the consultants
selected for the study and their terms of reference (para 2.11).
7.04      Under these assurances and conditions, the project is considered
suitable for an IDA credit of US$10.4 million.



4?-
AINIEX I
Table 1                                                                          GUINEA
(Part A)
RICE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Pro oct Coite Suary
(Syli  DO    W  termsa
----Foeiogn Exchaog  ---
PART A  NATIONAL COMPONENTS                        PYo             pyI              PY2              PY3              F4              PY5             Total                            A-.t Aot
1. ONADER HEADQUARTERS
Staffing: local                              242             1169             1169            1168             1168             1168            6084                0                 0
Staffing:  Technical Assistance               -              5778            5778             5778             5778            5778            28890              100             28890
Constructioa                                 -              4407               -               -                -                -             4407               75              3305
Furnituro and Equipsent                       -              2170              107             107              107              107            2598               95              2468
Vehicles                                    1126               -                -             1126               -                -             2252              100             2252
Vehicle Operating Costs                      122              491             491              491              491             491             2577               80              2062
Other Operating Coite                         32              469             382              382              382             382             2029               80              1623
Total:                                      1522            1311             7927             lB92                     792         6 9052 48837                    83            4
2. UPPER GUINEA PROJECT PREPN. STUDY
Equipsnt and' Vehioles                        -               882              107              53               -               -              1042              100             1042
Operationo Equipsent and Vehicles             -               223             446              185               -               -               854               80              682
Consultant Services                           -               919            4409             1499               -               -              6827             100              6827
Total:                                        -             -2i02-4           19 72 TM                                                          8723       _      fi     1i     3
3. AGRICULTURAL PRICING STUDY
Equipsnt sud Vehicles                         -               565              -                -                -               -               565              100              565
Operations Equipment and Vehicles             -               205             390              184               -               -               779               80              623
Conoeltaot Services                           -              1712            2782             1498               -               -              5992             100              5992
Total:                                        -              2W2             3172            TM!                                               7m3               -f9              7T11
4. FIELD TRIAL PROGRAM
Constructions                                 -              9151              -              4575               -               -             13726               75            10294
Furnishings                                   -               954              -               478               -               -              1432               95             1360
Vehicles sud Equipseot                        -                -             2915             1885            1408             1025             7233              100             7233
Staffing                                      -               107            1590             2385            2385             2601             9068               O                 0
Operations, Vehicles sud Equip.               -                -              604              905             905              905             3319              80              2655
Other Operating Coits                         -                -              603              820              777             777             2977               81             2411
Total:                                        -            10212             5712            1048             5475             5308            37751              63             23!5!
5. FELLOW5HIPS
Mediîs  Ters Fellowvhips                     642              642             642              642              642             642             3852             100              3852
Short Term Courseeovisiting                  128              875             483              516             619              431             3052             100              3052
Arrangements                                            5                               TII!                              073             6l
Total:                                       7TO            1 5i7            1261 107390 4
6. CONSULTANCY SERVICES
Preparatio. Gueokedou Second Phase            -                -               -               642            1070               -              1712             100              1712
DePign Constructions                        3638             1712              -                -                -               -              5350             100              5350
Other Co-eulting Arrongentsot  1/             -                64            1198             1305            1199             1199             4965             100              4965
Total:                          -M                           177i6           T19 1897                          M!             TMi              î3fl              31              17137
TOTAL COSTS NATIONAL COMPONENTS:             5930            32495           24096            26624           16931            15506          121582                82            99215
I/ Agricultural re-earch gmcties euch as IITA and WARDA end other techoical specialiste



44
GUINEA                                                                                  ANNEX I
Table I
RICE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                          (Part B)
Proiect Coats Sumfary
(Syli '000 1979 tems)
Foreign Exchange
PART B   GUECKEDOU PILOT PROJECT                                 PYO           PY1           PY2          PY3          PY4          PIS        Total                      Am Amount
1. CENTRAL MANAGEMENT, FINANCIAL AND
EVALUATION SERVICES
Staffing                                                   116            785         1710         1774         1819          1819         8023            0             0
Vehicles and Equipment                                     496            330          305           63           846          275         2315          100          2315
Operations Vehicles and Equipment                           105           282          469          481           495          494         2326           80          1861
Total:                                                      717          1397         2484         2318         3160          2588        12664           33          4176
2. EXTENSION SERVICE
Staffing                                                    -              73          865          930          930           930         3728            0             0
Vehicles and Equipment                                       -            282          864          599           355          233         2333          100          2333
Operations Vehicles and Equipment                            -             62          389          570           570          570         2161           80          1729
Total:                                                      -             417         2118         2099          1855         1733         8222           49         4062
3. TRAINING UNIT
Staffing                                                     -             73          397          397          397           397         1661            0             0
Vehicles and Equipment                                       -            128          388            16          154          372         1058           100         1058
Operations Vehicles and Equipment                            -             37          174          215           215          215          856           58           497
Total:                                                       -            238          959          628           766          984         3575           43          1555
4. FIELD TRIALS
Staffing                                                    -              53         2334         2334         2334           621         7676           67         5136
Vehicles and Equipment                                       -             75         1254          221           230         1246         3026          100          3026
Operations Vehicles and Equipment                            -             -           254          270           286          301         1111            80          888
Total:                                                       -            128         3842         2825         2850          2168        11813           77         9050
5. SEED MULTIPLICATION
Staffing                                                    -             193         2745         3297         3675          3675        13585           50         6848
Vehicles and Equipment                                       -            849         1148         4957           842         1686         9482          100         9482
Seed Processing Plant                                       -              -          9937           -             -            -          9937           95         9494
Operations Vehicles and Equipment                            -             42          397         1576         2032          2405         6452           80         5161
Seasonal Inputs                                             -              17           66          942         1606          2236         4867          100         4867
Total:                                                       -           1101        14293        10772         8155         10002        44323           81        35852
6. LAND DEVELOPMENT FEEDER ROAD RECONSTRUCTION
AND EoeIPMENT MAINTENANCE
Staffing Local                                               -            521         1967         2218         2220          1413         8339            0             0
Technical Assistance and Aerial Photography                  -           3812         4811         3352         3351            -         15326          100        15326
Vehicles and Equipment                                       -          10546         1025          241         1111           748        13671          100        13671
Operations, Vehicles and Equipment                           -           1124         3009         4685         4160          3483        16461           80        13170
Total:                                                       -          16003        10812        10496        10842          5644        53797           78        42167
7. FARM INPUTS AND EQUIPMENT
Fertilizer                                                  -              -          1038         2204         3333         3253          9828           -
Rice Seeders and Trailers                                   -              -            -          1836           -             -          1836
Spare Parts for Machinery                                   -              -           930          502          591           590         2613
Rice Nullers                                                -              _          1070          107           107          107         1391                         -
Total:                                                       -             -          3038         4649         4031          3950        15668          100        15668
8. GUECKEDOU NEADOUARTERS
Construction                                                -           25533           _            -             _            -         25533           75        19150
Water Installation and Electricity Generation                -           3874           -            -             -            -          3874           95         3680
Furnishings and Equipment                                   -            3242           -            -             -            -          3242           90         2918
Operations and Maintenance                                  -              -          2144         2553         2553          2553         9803           85         8332
Total:                                                       -         32649          2144         2553         2553          2553        42452           80        34080
TOTAL GUECKEDOU PIIOT PROJECT                                  717         51933        39690        36340         34212        29622       192514            76        146610



ANNEX I                                49 _
Table 2
GUINEA
RICE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
(us$ '000)
Cumulative      Undisbursed
Fiscal Year         Quarter       Disbursements        Disbursements   Amount
FY 80               Second             300                   300         10,100
Third              200                   500          9,900
Fourth             300                   800          9,600
FY 81               First             300                 1,100           9,300
Second             300                1,400           9,000
Third             400                 1,800           8,600
Fourth             500                 2,300          8,100
FY 82               First             700                  3,000          7,40o
Second            700                 3,700           6,700
Third             700                 4,400           6,ooo
Fourth             700                 5,100          5,300
FY 83               First              700                 5,800          4,6o0
Second            600                 6,400           4,ooo
Third              600                7,000           3,400
Fourth             600                7,600           2,800
FY 84              First               500                8,1oo           2,300
Second             500                8,600           1,800
Third              500                9,100           1,300
Fourth            4oo                  9,500            900
FY 85              First              4oo                 9,900             500
Second            300                10,200             200
Third             200                10,4o00
Fiscal Year: July 1 - June 30
Closing Date: June 30, 1985



- 50 -
GUINEA
RICE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Gueekedou Pilot Project
Crop Development Stages j
Paddy
Production       Yield
Crop    Producer      System         (t/ha)   Approximate Calendar 2/                 Description of Cultural Methods
Upland    Family
Rice      Farms          I             0.7          Without Project             Local varieties, all manual, broadcasting of seed,
no fertilizer, no pesticides.
Il           0.9          PYs 2 and 3                 As I plus 100 kg/ha of NPK fertilizer compound (20-20-20)
III          1.25         PY4 and on                  Improved varieties, dressed seed, line sowing,
fertilizer as II; selective pest control.
Upland    Farmer
Rice      Cooperatives  I              o.4          Without Project             Local varieties, mechanized land preparation, broad-
casting of seed, no fertilizer, no pesticides.
IIa          0.55         PY2                         As I plus 100 kg/ha of NPE fertilizer compound (20-20-20)
IIb           0.65        PY3                         Improved mechanized land preparation, mechanized line
sowing, local varieties, fertilizer as IIa.
III          1.0          PY4 and on                  Improved varieties, improved mechanized land
preparation, mechanized line soving, fertilizer as II;
selective pest control.
Swamp     Family
Rice      Farms          I             1.0          Without Project             Local varieties, all manual, broadcasting of seed, no
fertilizer, no pesticides, no water control.
II           1.7          PYs 2 and 3                 Local varieties, transplanting, 100 kg/ha of NPK
fertilizer compound (20-20-20); limited vater control
through bunding.
III          2.1          PY3 and on                  Improved varieties, dressed seed, selective pest contrû3,
rest as Il.
IV           2.6          PY4 and on
(700 ha only)              As III plus improved water control through flood protect-
ion, bunding, simple land levelling, drainage
1/ Stage I represents traditional practices. Stage III or IV represents the finally achieved production system. Stage II is
an intermediate stage practised before improved seed becomes available from the project's seed multiplication center.
2/ Full details in calendar at Table 5



RICE VSIOPMENT PBGJECT
Su ,ur_r  Crueoproductioc Budgets 1/
Peodueti.t                                                      Without       ----------------------------------------  With  r1e-t  -------------------______              ----
Systei           Crue DevîuelPent Stages                       Pruleet                  Ite.editte Deveset                    -      ------Final DevelnPsnt -----------------
A. SMALLOLDERS UPLAND RICS                                        I                                II                              iii
Yield (Kg/ha)                                              700                              900                             1,250
Gross Revesue per gg                                     6,300                            8,100                            11,250
ess.ong. Iput Cosse per Ha 2/                             685                            1,185                             1,185
Net Retors per HB                                        5,615                            6,915                            10,065
Lubur per HB  (Maudaye)                                    107                              112                               119
Net Retrur  per Mandas                                      52                               62                                85
B. SMALLHOLDERS SWAMPLANg) RICE                                  I                                 SI                             III              IV              0V
Iurtnsg     after reset-et
repe vest-lsud       Isd
Yield (Kg/hb)                                            1,000                            1,700                             2,100           2,600            2,600
Groug  Rgvesua  per ha                                   9,000                           15,300                            18,900          23,400           23,400
Seususal Ieput Cues-  pe- ha 2/                            690                              960                               960             960              960
.ep.P.ent Lnud DOveSoen.et Susse pur h/                     -                               _                                               4.230              550
Tutul Cests per he                                         690                              960                               960           5,190            1,510
Net RSture per ha                                        8,310                           14,340                            17,940          18,210           21,890
Lebor per Hu (Masdays)                                      88                              124                               138             145              150
Net Retors par Muuday                                       94                              116                               130             126              146
C. FARNeR COOPERATIVES                                            I                ila                            Ilb             III              II              III              III
doriua           sftcr       e ereî...ly    hbrinde.
reepnymt         rePgY t    but a.sued           coutr.tued
..achisery       mchtsery          lamae  4/        su see d
couste           ctuss          he.tte.rs         fers
Restsrs. Coltivuted                                         45               45                              60                75              75               90              90
Labor per Hu (Maedays)                                      37               47                              55                68              68               68              41
Yield (Kg/hb)                                              400              550                             650            1,000            1,000            1,000           1,150
Grass R-venue per Hu-                                   4,400             6,050                           7,150           11,000           11,000          11,000           12,650
Seuso. al Isputu, Fuel/Lb. per Hu /                      1,325            1,825                           1,899            1,899            1,899            1,899           1,899
Net Returse ou Variable Cossu
pe  hectare                                          3,075             4,225                           5,251            9,101            9,101           9,101           10,751
par suuday                                               83               90                              95              134              134              134             262
Per co.perutive                                    138,375           190,125                        315,060           682,575         682,575          819,090         967,590
Maohi-sry Spars parts nd Muituesauce
scd Driver vagu 3/                                 117,000           133,000                        156,500           163,500         107,000          107,000          163,500
Net Retorse sft-r Muchiuury sud Driver Cuts:
Pur hectare                                            475             1,269                           2,643            6,921            7,674           7,912            8,934
par eundsy                                               13               27                              48              102              113             116              218
Pur c..per-tive                                     21,375            57,125                        158,560           519,075         575,575          712,090         804,090
1/ Tuble 3 for descrtpsles uf cecp develp, ect  teges.  Prujeut  ile fSr full dutuil.
2/      ..asusa1 iGputs isclode SertilGeer  (100 kh/ha at  5 e/kg); ueed or pre itus yeur'. paddy (9 s/kg  nd 65 kg ftr oplaud rite 40 kg/ha fur uur.ery plepted  --p rice); *cd, fSr
the .ollectîves  fuel ud lubricast.
_/ DOtsile un credOt r-sm.beent  ucleltios  On prejsut file.
t/ arges Rectsrage *s.eeud ta illwtrste isflos.ue of epr.sdiug   uhiery  -rtiestiu    uest.



GUINi4
RIe8 DOEVeIoP10NT PROJ1CT
G.eekadoa, Pilet Projeet
Oroleet Partieieatlon Sebedel.. ROerrres Pindtai san Predeetine
CODi                Heotarbasac
Des-loeust           f_ilv or Yild                 PY I                PY 2                    n  3                      Y 4                    P  5
Stage             pe  Ra (Ka)
A   UFLOND RICE FANILY FAROIING
1.  Nber e  Families                                 I                                           3000                   2300                    1300                       300                     300.
Il                                            -                     700                   1700                         -                       -
III                                           -                                              -2700                                           2700
Total                                        3000                   3000                    3000                      3000                    3000
2.  NtMer of Hectares                                1                       105                 4500                   3450                    1950                       450                     450
Il                     1.5                    -                    1050                   2550                         -                       -
11I                    *.5                    -                      -                       -                      4050                    4050
Total                     -450                                      4500                    4500                      4500                    4500
3.  Froduetion                                       I                       700                 3150                   2415                    1365                       315                     315
II                     900                    -                     945                   2295                         -                       -
III                   1250                    -                      -                       -                       5062                   5062
Total                     -                  3150                   3360                    3660                      5377                    5377
4.  lnerrisgtaî Prod-rtin  fro=                                              -                  b.sa                    210                     510                      2227                    2227
Front Fermer- Uplaed Ring
B.  8WU2  RICE FANTLY FARFING
1.  hb-r of Fmilles                                  I                                           3000                   2300                    1300                       300                     300
II                                                                  700                   1300                         -                       -
III                                                                  -                     400 31                    1900                    1300
Il                                            -       .              ~            ~           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- 00  1400
Total                                        30000                  3000                    3000                      3000                    3000
2.  Nutbe  of Hectares  J/                           I                       0.5                 1500                   1150                     650                       150                     150
II                     0.5                    -                     350                    650                         -                       -
III                    0.5                    -                      -                      200 2/                    950                     650
IV                     0.5                    -                      -                       -                        400                     700
Total                     -                  1500                   1500                    1500                      1500                    1500
3.  Prodoctine                                       I                      1000                 1500                   1150                     650                       150                     150
II                    1700                    -                     595                   1105                         -                       -
III                   2100                    -                      -                     420                       1995                   1365
IV                    2600                    -                      -                       -                       1040                   1820
Total                     -                  1500                   1745                    2175                      3185                    3335
4.  Iner-eetol Frodoction fram                        -                       -                  b.s.                    245                     675                      1685                    1835
Pr-jont For-era SOwap Rins
C   UPLAID RICRE hCHANIZED COOPFPtTIVES
1.  Noter et Cooprativas  2r                         t                                             12
II.                                           -                      12
Itb                                           -                      -                       12
tII                                                                                                                    il                       9
Total                                          12                     12                      12                        il                       9
2.  Nbter of Hectares                                I                        45                  540
IIa                     45                                          540
ilb                     60                                                                 720
III                      75                   _                                                                       825                    675
Total                                         540                    540                     720                       825                     675
3.   rdortîne                                                                400                  216
lIa                    550                                         297
ii4                    650                                                                 468
Il'                   1000                                                                                            825                    675
Total                                         216                    297                     468                       825                     675
4.  Iscre.ental Frdodction  frer3                                                                bea                      8I                     252                       609                     459
-lech-ni-d copopratvea Upland Riga:
D   SUIMARY PRODUCTION LNCRRhRNTS
Fa=ily Far=a Oplaed                                                                                -                     210                     510                      2227                     2227
Family Fanu  Smamplasd                                                                             -                     245                     675                      1685                     1835
TtRg  Family Fra                                                                                                         455                    1185                      3912                     4062
Mgehoel.ed  Coop-ati-v  Uplamd                                                                      -                     81                     252                       609                      459
Total In reamtal Froductios                                                                                             536                    1437                      4521                     4521
1/ Os PY3 400 f-rmers vith 200 ha ara ofiag the fiRst projeet irproy-d evemplaed but  cithent i                  dprovd .sed.  Yilds are  -saemnd nethbis i.teesemdiot  stage te b.  eqiIvaleat tc teag  I11
2/                       tires Hnr saqar.tiv a coetracetd te serd amltiplicatioe nenter.



53 -
RICE L VELorHZ   PROJECT
Economic Ferumate Value of Rice
PYs 2 to 5                PYs 6 to 10             PY 11 and on
Thai 25h brol'e- FOB Bangkok  /                         115                       331                       34
plue  fretght  insurance                                      --- Rn--------------------
port  handling                                ------------------------ 15_-------______________
subfotal                                             410                        4,8                      415
less tnternal transnort2/                         -------------------------- 5-----------________,__
Value Rice Guec"edou                                   405                        1.23                     430
les:  Milling cost                               -------------------------25-------------------------
subtotal                                             380                        398                      405
Value Paddy Gueckedou Warehouse-'                      258                        271                      276
legs:  collection and bagging                    ------------------------- 10------------------------
Economic Value Paddy Farmgate                          248                        261                      266
1/  Coradity  forecaste in mid-1978 constant terme based on 5% broken rice vith 20% markdown for
lover qualities.
2/  Aasumed conauuption of oroject-oroduction in deficit areas Fouta Dialon   US$ 0.03/t.km and 50%. truck
utilisation on return leg: froo Conakry to Labe 870 km. round trio or 650 t. km eauivalent enual.
US 20 added but minua Gueckadou to Labe 1100 km round trip or 825 km equivalent equala US$ 25.
Net cent equals US$ 5/t.



- 54 -
GUINEA
RICE DEVELOPMEUT PROJECT
Economic Costs and Benefits  /  I
(Sylis '000 1978 Constant Terms)
Output Benefits iL                           Central Costs            Variable Costs                          Seed Release
Proj. Pilot Proj.      Second         Total      Pilot        Second       Pilot       Second       Total      Incremental Incremental
Year  Farmers          Phase        Benefits     Project      Phase        Project     Phase        Costs         Conte     Benefits
(Bl)            (B2)          (Sum)        (Ci)         (C2)        (C3)         (C4)       (Sum)         (C5)         (B3)
1        -                -            -         42857           -          (446)          -       42411            -            -
2      2559               -          2559        28945           -          1549           -       30494            _            _
3      6815               -          6815        24873           -          4702           -       29575            -            -
4     21948               -        21948         23414           -          5055           -       28469            -            -
5     22692               -         22692        19797           -          6913           -       26710            _            _
6     23882            13135        37017         5340        18255         6913         3471      33979          4882        11063
7     23882            30951        54833            "        35082         5108        8179       53709                      13895
8     23882            53066        76948            "        26668         6913       14023       52944                      16071
9     23882            75181        99063          .          28268         6913       19867       60388
10     23882            97200       121082            "        29867         5108        25686      66001
il     24339            99060       123399            "        12372         6311           "       49709            "
12                              *.                             11285                "48622
13        "                                                    10198           "            "       47535            "            "
14 .
15
16        """"""""""
17                                                    ,           tt *                                  t, .. ."
18        *.
19                                                                             tt          t, *- .,
20                  "      "      "                                            tt           ,           , " 
_/ Assumptions as at paras 6.04 to 6.07. Variable costs include farm labor, fertilizer, farm equipment, fuel, lubrieasts
and driver wages for brigades, paddy used as seed in two out of three years. Central costs cover all other costs.
2/  ERRS computed as follows:  Pilot project including seed release B1 and B3 against Cl, C3 and C5; 12.8%.
Pilot project excluding seed release Bl against Cl and C3; 5.9%.
Pilot project plus second place devt.B1 and B2 against Cl, C2, C3 and C4; 20.3%.
3/ Value of output based on Annex I, Table 6.
/ Net benefits after subtracting incremental labor inputs.



- 55 -
ANNEX 2
GUINEA
APPRAISAL OF A RICE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Contents of Prolect File
A.   Cost Tables
1.   Project Cost Summary Part A National Component
tg     "l   i"   Part B Gueckedou Pilot Project
2.   ONADER Headquarters
3.   Field Trial Program
4.   Upper Guinea Project Preparation Study and Pricing Study
5.   Fellowships and Consultant Services
6.   Gueckedou Central Management, Financial and Evaluation
Services
7.   Gueckedou Extension Service and Training Unit
8.   Gueckedou Seed Production (3 pages)
9.   Gueckedou Research Station and Field Trials
10.   Gueekedou Road and Land Development and Equipment
Maintenance Departments
11. Gueckedou Farm Inputs and Equipment
12.   Gueckedou Readquarters Constructions and Operations
B.   Supporting Tables
1.   Seed Production Projections
2.   Gueekedou Area Selective Climatic Data
3.   Crop Production Budget Smallholder Upland Rice
4.   Crop Production Budget Smallholder Swamp Rice
5.   Crop Production Budget Farmer Cooperatives Rice
6.   Crop Production Budgets in Economic Prices
C.   Terms of Reference
1.   Technical Assistance Staff
2.   Pricing Study
3.   Project Evaluation Unit
D.   Supporting Documentation i/
1.   Project Preparation Study
2.   Appraisal Mission Working Papers (indexed in the project
file index)
1/   Available on Request



GUINEA
RICE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                            ANNEX II
ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE - "OPERATION NATIONALE POUR LE DEVELOPPEMENT                            Figure 1
DE LA RIZICULTURE" (ONADER)
PART A. GENERAL STRUCTURE
[ MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE   --------
RICE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT: PLANNING,
CO-ORDINATION & SPECIALIST SERVICES
ONADER HEADQUARTERS
DIRECTOR
PROFESSIONAL STAFF
(NATIONAL COMPONENTS)                             (GUECKEDOU PILOT PROJECT)
APPLIED                              AGRICULTURAL        OPERATION RIZ GUECKEDOU <ORG)
AGRICULTURAL           PROJECT           PRICING AND                 DIRECTOR
RESEARCH AND        PREPARATION        RURAL INCENTIVES        SPECIALIST DEPARTMENTS
DEMONSTRATION           STUDY               STUDY
PROGRAM                                                  (|SEE PART B FOR AMPLIFICATION)
PART B. GUECKEDOU PI LOT PROJECT AMPLIFICATION
|OPERATI ON R IZ G UECKEDOU
DIRECTORt
r              ~~~~~ASST. DIRECTOR
UNIT     E                                        ACCOUNTrlNG AND
CREDIT SERVICES 
SEED               DEPARTMENT
RESEARCH EXTENSION       MULTIPLICATION            OF WORKS                   KSHOP
AND TRAINING              CENTER             (LAND ENGINEER-
.      .  .                          ~~~~~~~~~~~ING AND ACCESS
ROADS )
RESEARCH       EXTENSION        TRAINING
STATION        SERVICE          CENTER
World Bank - 20722



ANNEX II                                                                             GUINEA
Figure 2                                                              RICE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
PROJECT YEAR:           PY 0               PY 1              PY 2              PY 3               PY 4               PY 5
A.  CONSTRUCTIONS AND NATIONAL COMPONENTS
1.  Constructions   Design Work and Preparetion of Bidding Documents
Tendering, Evaluation and Contract Award (s>
Construction:
2.  ONADER HO Operations                                                       ..                                                                _
3.  Upper Guinea Project Preparation Study  Reconnaissance Survey
s..                                                        Consultants Study                                            _                      _
4.  Agricultural Pricing Study
5.  Field Trial Program
(First Season>
6.  Fellowship Program
B.  GUECKEDOU PILOT PROJECT
1.  Central Management   Direction and Finance
Credit--
Evaluation
2.  Extension Service                                                                               ,_v
3.  Training Unit
4.  Field Trials
5.  Seed Production  Preparation Activities
Field  Activities__ _______
Installation Processing Plant
Hectares Planted  Upland by seed farm                                                      12                265               273               273
Upland by Contracted Brigades                                             _                  -                 80                270
Total Upland                                                              12                                   333               53
Swampland                                                                     0.5                28                 29                41
Ouantities of Cert. Seed Produced: Upland Seed                                                                        325               415                635
(t.)       Swampland Seed                                                                         70                 70               100
6.  Land Development and Feeder Roed Reconstruction                                                            UM
Roads (km) >                                                                             Upgrade        Ma20t _n200
Swamplands (ha)                                                                                         20                20030
Uplends (ha)
7.  Workshop                                                                                               ._._.
8.  Pilot Project Participants  Familles (No.l                                                                       700           1,700              2,700             2,700
Brigades (No.)                                                                           12             12                  12                12
9.  Preparation Gueckedou Phase Il Det.                                                                                       ..............
C.. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE POSTS
ONADER                  Agricultural Economist
Agronomist
Agricultural Engineer
Gueckedou               Development Agronomist                                               .......
Manager, Seed Multiplication
Agric./Public Works Engineer
Mechanic
World Bank - 20723






~kr If        K                                                                                                                                                 BRD 14I63  -
_C a  -< îu,,t   Ts.                  __  _                       kt                                                                                                                                   4
6L6661AA  Yo_u`ku nvu&J X W
Koundar                                                                                                                        M        A                               |
Kourmali6 tl2
Kou~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~?eeo 
__                                                                      _____________I;t                                          )                        L+ ,'0tÀrg  J/`   ,j~
Nr?r                       R      EERCqionT o                                                                                (     e C                    X/             R     
Atlantic C.jI. g;offng,ve f                                                                              etlomci                                       N
*1    Ceg,MrIy llnCod AIIIIMé ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IQ   '
Dcibola ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~MoIIvo jsb
EG N1*                                                                                                            JPPE
e~ ~              Kient>    -                                                                                                                                   J07..2  / \/ 8 Og    éoce  
t    z ; g t     zE; :t;  5fl; 0 S00   25;US: :20:Ta -  L;    Fa tr    )Isnogu                                   t2hyo
V~~~~~~RG                                               EAP.  *rt$ttr4    -P-''L   .I   i  OESTRGo8tX,w
e~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~OAE ri A£ Fis -eWKrV                                  >i;            2     -L  L- 0                                                          1  N$
+  rti'voted Tlts_} RdittilV ~~~4 dFr C 191 S Etd . 2 240 sIfoi 110 m ro ; , J ` = 9 K;ssidougo
t4 Ihwnittiond Ai~~~~~~~REo   ST5: <JD  k  :: v5; t=:   JRi      u c! EGD;I JL';/9\  
s  F.~lrlvllwrvl aiHi s             XèAÇ                                     f Ç      ;:  Q  :  \ i      i3s-3!gd  g3grg:          $ |/        Zerekok   +       _  tï.  
GU-  n rtion  oNEArn                                                   A   .      ;            .`I                      ;   1   -      '      -0'        =                         '_
RICE~ ~ ~~~~~_D;S0 DEVELOPMENTK    t`:.Slt'7;0:'2rtU2}H /f  +  44                                                                                                                                   E 
;'À:té\00....................................... : =  n  Ç:r;  e;; f::  e 0V jcrnu /g/oXbce nta 
|          \>                                               X 0 a Vr s tç \ g  0 ti 0 \ W ;>_ 2 f i ? ; \   3) Ir f~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~e, 






IBRD 14164
¶O0¶0r                                                                                                     MARCH  1979
j              s~~~1 Konun,-'
\                             tt ~~~~GUEL 
5050t                                                                                                                               8050~~~~DAA  in  0Gui
`"s`t  S    C    g   ,t X1ESSANE  ~
"~><s  (<    BandalaI
Ç                                tt~~~~~~~~~~~~~Lalko        '' 
GUINEA
K >allaho,J t GUI N E
RICE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
--    GU ECKEDOU PILOT PROJ ECT AREA
M       Project Headquarters
GUELO    PRL  Locations
Main Roads
Roads for Llpgrading               8040Y-
<<\o- : =  Main Rivers
Main Tributary Streams
-    '   ~ International Boundary
Northern
Kevedou,o  Sector      o         2    ,   4          6
Kev _dou,0S                      ut tern                              KILOMETERS
Th,s ohk 5 a bao plp-OOd b° th
WoOd ako~ ot.ff aofoaoyf,
Bandalo                                       tdodthotOh ost,dhte
/0/                                                              Tdo flot ,rpfy t0 e tttt 0f th.
B~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~oI BanO  trrorOayond ,s fdaea ny
-Ot - te ,,to  or flh  .f a.dOSOta
1    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~d9-~~~~~~~~~~~~roatat  cfaoh boo,tdar-,af
MACEN
Guekedo  
Lele
FARAKO                  BAWA
_EM              O         E                                                       A' iEREMAKONO         E R R U  I NEAM
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _     _    _     _    _    _     _    _    _           -    10~~~~~~~~  U   1     N E  
0      L  BERIA ¶                                                                                   E 0 N



