Document of
The World Bank    FILE COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2516a-GU1
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE
REVOLUTIONARY PEOPLE'S
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
FOR A
RICE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
August 28, 1979
This document has a restricted distribution and may he used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit        =        Syli
US$1.00              =        20 Sylis
Syli 1.00            =        US$0.05
Syli 1 million       =        US$50,000
MEASURES
1 kilogram (kg)              2.20 lbs.
1 ton (t)                    1.1 US tons
1 millimeter (mm)  =         0.04 inch
1 meter (m)        =         3.28 ft.
1 kilometer (km)   =         0.62 miles
1 hectare (ha)               2.47 acres
ABBREVIATIONS
ADB       -  African Development Bank
ADF       -  African Development Fund
BGCE      -  Banque Guineenne du Commerce Exterieur
BMP       -  Brigade Mecanisee de Production (Farmer Cooperative)
BNDA      -  Banque Nationale de Developpement Agricole
CGR       -  Commissariat General de la Revolution (Regional Authority)
EDF       -  European Development Fund
IITA      -  International Institute for Tropical Agriculture
IRAT      -  Institut de Recherche Agricole Tropicale
ONADER    -  Operation Nationale pour le Developpement de la
Riziculture
ORG       -  Operation Riz Gueckedou
PPF       -  Project Preparation Facility
PRL       -  Pouvoir Revolutionnaire Local
WARDA     -  West Africa Rice Development Association
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE REVOLUTIONARY PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
RICE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:        Revolutionary People's Republic of Guinea
Amount:          US$10.4 million
Terms:           Standard
Colender:        African Development Fund:  US$4.9 million on IDA terms.
Project          Over five years the project would assist the Guinean Gov-
Description:   errment to develop its rice sector.  Through its national
component the project would: (a) strengthen the Ministry
of Agriculture by establishing a specialized unit for
the planning and coordination of the country's rice develop-
ment program including consultant assistance and fellowship
funds for the training of Guinean cadres; (b) upgrade the
country's agronomic rice research in order to provide a
testing and demonstration capacity for introducing technical
improvements; (c) undertake a pricing study to assist Govern-
ment to restructure agricultural prices so as to provide
appropriate incentives to its rural sector; and (d) prepare
for a future agricultural development project in Upper Guinea.
The project also contains a regional component, a pilot
project to be carried out in Guinea's Forest Region to test
and develop technical improvements to rice cultivation prac-
tices of farmers. If the pilot operation is a success, it
would constitute the basis for a follow-up project in that
area. Project risks relate to Guinea's financially con-
strained and unwieldy administration, economic distortions
affecting farmer incentives, shortage of trained staff, and
the newness to the country of most of the measures that would
be introduced under the project. Such risks have been mini-
mized through: special financing and procurement procedures
designed to guarantee foreign exchange and local funds for
project operations and to facilitate advance planning of
procurement; the project's credit procedures and arrangements
for increasing the availability of consumer goods for purchase
by project participants; special arrangements and guarantees
concerning the autonomy of the project executing agency; the
provision of substantial technical assistance in key areas and
of training fellowships for upgrading the technical expertise
of Guinean staff; technical proposals for the pilot project
which are simple, based on successful experience elsewhere in
West Africa, and which would not require project participants
to make significant departures from their existing farming
systems; and, finally, rigorous reporting requirements and
arrangements for internal monitoring and forward planning of
project activities.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated Cost:                                                            % of
(Net of Taxes)                           Local    Foreign    Total  Base Costs
(US$ million)------
ONADER and Training Fellowships    0.4           3.0        3.4       22
Agric  tural Research on Rice
Cultivation                         0.7         1.2        1.9       12
Agricultural Pricing Study           /a          0.4        0.4        2
Project Preparation Study            /a          0.4        0.4        3
Pilot Project                        2.3         7.3        9.6       61
BASE COST                             3.4        12.3       15.7      100
Contingencies
Physical                             0.2         0.7       0.9
Price                                0.7         2.3        3.0
TOTAL PROJECT COST (net of tax)       4.3        15.3       19.6
Taxes on Fuel and Lubricants              1.4           -        1.4
TOTAL PROJECT COST
(inclusive of taxes)            5.7        15.3       21.0
/a   Less than US$50,000.
Financing Plan:
Local    Foreign    Total
…(US$ million)-------
IDA                                      -         10.4      10.4
African Development Fund                 -          4.9       4.9
Government                              5.7         -         5.7
5.7       15.3      21.0
Estimated
Disbursements:
FY80   FY81   FY82   FY83   FY84   FY85
Annual           0.8    1.5      2.8   2.5    1.9      0.9
Cumulative       0.8    2.3      5.1   7.6    9.5    10.4
Economic Rate
of Return:     computed for pilot project component only               13%
Staff Appraisal
Report: 2389-GUI of August 17, 1979
Maps:
IBRD 14163R, Guinea, August 1979
IBRD 14164, Pilot Project Area, March 1979



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE REVOLUTIONARY PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
FOR A RICE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Revolutionary People's Republic of Guinea for the
equivalent of US$10.4 million on standard IDA terms to finance a rice develop-
ment project. The African Development Fund (ADF) would assist in the financing
of the project with a credit of US$4.9 million equivalent on financing terms
similar to IDA's.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        The last economic report (No. Af-63b, dated September 1, 1967)
was distributed to the Executive Directors on January 22, 1968. From 1970
to 1977 a number of economic missions visited the country which identified the
major structural constraints on the expansion of output and incomes and
provided the basis for an increasingly active dialogue on development policy
issues. Our last economic mission took place in March 1979, and its findings
and those of earlier missions are reflected in the following assessment of the
state of the-economy and its prospects.
Background Conditions
3.        Guinea is potentially one of the richest countries in West Africa
with substantial natural resources in the rural sector, mining, and to a
lesser extent hydroelectric power. Its broad range of eco-climatic zones,
from the sub-Saharan north to sub-tropical mountain areas in the center and
tropical forest in the south, allows the production of a variety of agricul-
tural commodities. At the time of Independence in 1958, Guinea was the
leading African exporter of bananas and also exported considerable quan-
tities of coffee, pineapple and palm oil; it was also able to meet most of its
basic foodstuff requirements. In particular, the natural conditions for rice
and livestock are suitable for expanded production. Guinea's mining potential
includes bauxite reserves tentatively estimated at 8 billion tons, the largest
in the world, while readily exportable high-grade iron ore deposits are
estimated at about two billion tons. Diamond and gold deposits have been
identified and prospects for uranium mining and offshore oil exploration
are being actively investigated.
Past Performance
4.        Notwithstanding Guinea's promising resource endowment, economic
performance from the time of Independence until 1972 was disappointing.
While lack of adequate data prevents a detailed assessment, estimated real



-2-
growth of GNP during this period was less than 2.5 percent annually, lower
than the annual estimated population growth rate of 2.9 percent. Agricultural
exports practically vanished and Guinea became a net food importer, including
of rice, its staple food. The years following Independence were characterized
by a comprehensive reorganization of all economic and social activities in
Guinea with a view to building a socialist economy. This entailed (a) a sharp
curtailment of the private sector and the establishment of Government trading
companies operating at controlled prices, (b) the creation of numerous other
public enterprises, and (c) extensive State investment in industrial and
social infrastructure. Returns on many projects were limited by managerial
inexperience and planning inadequacies, and public enterprises absorbed high
and rising amounts of Government resources. The capital costs and recurrent
deficits of public investment soon exceeded budgetary savings and the Govern-
ment resorted to heavy foreign borrowing and Central Bank advances to finance
them. Foreign borrowing from Western and centrally planned economies was
carried out on an ad hoc basis and soon resulted in unmanageable debt obliga-
tions that could not be met by declining export proceeds. At the same time
the liberal advances of the Central Bank led to a huge increase in money
supply, galloping inflation and an overvalued exchange rate for the Syli.
Consequently the public trading enterprises could neither obtain adequate
supplies of local goods at official prices nor distribute them widely enough,
and an active parallel market developed with prices substantially higher than
official levels. Furthermore, the lack of foreign exchange caused sharp
reductions in imports of raw materials and intermediate inputs, which con-
strained production in manufacturing, agriculture and consumer goods. The
economy thus stagnated in a vicious circle of foreign exchange shortages, poor
incentives, and declining investments, output and exports.
5.        While lack of foreign exchange sharply limited the supply of im-
ported goods, and indirectly of local products as well, excess money supply
strongly stimulated local demand, contributing from that side to the growing
imbalance between supply and demand at official prices. As a result of 15
years of deficit financing, money supply reached a high level of nearly 70
percent of GDP in 1972 or over three times the level attained in most other
West African countries. Most of this money overhang was concentrated in
the urban areas where it aggravated the severe excess demand situation and
absorbed much of the limited supply of goods that would otherwise have been
available to the rural areas.
6.        These trends created considerable difficulties for the people.
The rural population, about 80 percent of the total, operated principally
at a subsistence level, selling as little as possible on the official mar-
ket, and was largely excluded from the official distribution of imported
consumer goods. On the other hand, the urban population had to compete for
the limited supply of goods it could buy through official channels with
rationing cards and supplement its needs in the unofficial market at very
high prices. Large segments of the urban population were thus affected by
the system as much as the average farmer.
7.        With the start of two large bauxite mining operations, there was an
abrupt rise in economic output. GNP increased by 33 percent between 1973 and



-3-
1977 in real terms, but stagnated in 1978 mainly because of the severe drought
in 1977-78 and a levelling off of mining output as production approached full
capacity. By 1978 per capita GDP reached about US$230. The rural sector
continues to dominate the economy, although its share in GDP fell from 50
percent in 1963-64 to around 40 percent in 1976-78, while the mining sector
contribution doubled, from 11 percent to 23 percent over the last 15 years.
With the exception of the mining sector, characterized by mixed ownership
since Independence, the modern sector continues to be State-owned while
agricultural policies and public investment have encouraged collectivization
and large-scale mechanized operations.
Recent Policy Trends
8.         The productive and financial bases for a more dynamic economy have
been strengthened over the last five years, although the country's economic
development is still hampered by structural problems. This improvement in
underlying conditions, brought about initially by the new mining operations,
was further encouraged by the gradual adoption of more outward-oriented
policies, particularly over the last three years vis-a-vis Western coun-
tries, and neighboring countries notably the Ivory Coast and Senegal in
1978.
9.         Increased gross domestic output, especially for exports, and a
stricter control of aggregate demand allowed Guinea to achieve a balance of
trade surplus in 1977 and 1978, although the overall balance of payments
has remained in deficit at about US$90 million per annum over the last three
years. This deficit has been financed through accumulation of debt arrears
and by a further decrease of gross official reserves, barely covering one
month of imports at the end of 1978, as compared to almost three months at the
end of 1975. While nearly half of gross export earnings has been used to pay
for both direct foreign exchange costs of mining operations and mining related
debt service, the remainder has gone mainly to increase imports of essential
raw materials, foodstuffs and consumer goods, with a view to providing more
current inputs for manufacturing and agriculture, and more incentives to
producers. In the agricultural sector these measures have been comple-
mented by a number of actions intended to increase production, such as more
rural public investment, and more deliberate efforts to improve distribution
of consumer goods in the hinterland. Investment, however, has been concen-
trated on mechanized and ox traction brigades whose output has been dis-
appointing. Furthermore, inadequate producer prices and poor distribution of
goods to rural producers through official trade channels remain serious
obstacles.
10.       Higher bauxite exports and favorable world market conditions have
greatly increased Government revenue through taxation and sharing of profits.
Thus, since 1975 Government current revenues and in particular tax revenue
have increased markedly faster (23-24% p.a.) than GDP (about 9.4% p.a.), while
public recurrent expenditures have increased at a moderate 12 percent per
year, half as fast as revenues. Part of this additional revenue has been



-4-
turned over to the Central Bank for amortization of accumulated Central Bank
advances, and has served to sterilize some of the money overhang. Government
expenditures have increased only moderately. These deflationary measures have
led to a marked reduction of the money supply in relation to the GDP, an
estimated 50 percent fall in prices on the parallel market over the last three
years, ana some improvement in the real purchasing power of most of Guinea's
poorest population. Also, the Government has demonstrated a desire to better
maintain and fully exploit existing capital assets, and has begu.: to allocate
a larger proportion of its recurrent budget for much needed maintenance
expenses and the purchase of spare parts. Importantly, the Government is also
undertaking an examination of the viability of public enterprises; a few of
the least successful have been closed down, while others have embarked on
rehabilitation programs, sometimes with external assistance. The Government's
objective is to make these enterprises self-sufficient and it has therefore
recognized the need to revise pricing policies to enhance cash flows, ensure
adequate credit to maintain working capital and stocks, and call upon foreign
technical assistance (including post-rehabilitation management assistance) to
strengthen operational efficiency. Finally, the Government, which has de
facto tolerated private trading since 1977, recently legalized it as part of a
move towards lessening restrictions on the circulation of goods and people
internally and across national borders.
11.       Outside the mining sector on the one hand, and the subsistence
economy on the other, private investment is practically nil. The third
and most recent development plan covered the period October 1973 to December
1978. Its original forecasts called for an investment outlay of US$2.9
billion, of which US$1.8 billion, or 64.6 percent of total investment, was to
be in semipublic joint ventures with foreign investors (mainly in the mining
sector). The plan was later scaled down to US$1.7 billion, to take into
account delays in the implementation of iron ore projects at Mount Nimba
and Simandou, and of bauxite mines at Dabola and Tougue; actual investment
expenditure was finally estimated at US$1.3 billion, or 72.3 percent of the
revised projections, of which 43 percent was financed by foreign capital
inflows. Foreign borrowing was particularly heavy between 1973-1975, when it
covered almost three-quarters of investment financing, as compared to less
than one-fifth during the 1976-78 period. Large outlays in connection with
purchase of equipment for rural production brigades, as well as for the
transport sector, were the main components in the high investment levels in
the 1973-76 period, to the tune of about US$270 million per annum. In
1977-78, partly because of reduced availability of foreign financing, invest-
ment outlays fell to less than US$200 million per annum.
Prospects
12.       Guinea's long-run development prospects are good.  However, the
Government has not yet defined its development priorities for the next Plan
period, other than the customary major projects whose financing is sought
abroad. Based on Bank Group economic analysis and projections, it appears
that Guinea's short- and medium-term economic development prospects will
hinge critically on the rate of growth in the mining sector, while long-term
prospects will be affected by rural development. Mining exports increased



-5-
from US$61 million in 1973 to about US$300 million in 1977-78. They are
likely to reach about US$410 million in 1980, if all operations produce and
export at full capacity, or some US$370 million if production levels do not
increase. Despite this favorable evolution, the foreign exchange situation
will remain tight and will become particularly critical if no new major
sources of foreign exchange are identified in the near future. This situation
is determined by (a) the high foreign exchange content of the operating costs
in mining projects (up to half of gross export receipts); (b) increasingly
high debt service obligations, including substantial arrears; and (c) import
requirements for operation of the manufacturing, transport and other sectors,
as well as for imports of foodstuffs and consumer goods. Guinea will there-
fore need substantial amounts of external assistance to support its balance of
payments until at least 1985.
Foreign Assistance and External Debt
13.       Over the past few years, Guinea has been diversifying its sources
of foreign assistance. Renewed ties with the Western industrialized coun-
tries, expanded relations with such OPEC countries as Algeria, Iraq, Libya,
Kuwait, Saudi Arabia, and with multilateral sources have altered the past
situation. Both the Bank Group and IMF have maintained a dialogue with the
Government on a wide range of policy matters, and Guinea has qualified for
drawings under the IMF first credit tranche and trust fund facilities.
14.       However, over the years, the accumulation of foreign debt to finance
investments in public infrastructure and public enterprises, as well as public
consumption, have resulted in a burden of foreign obligations which is and
will remain for years a major problem. Guinea's external public debt reached
US$1.2 billion as of December 31, 1978, of which US$906 million was disbursed
and outstanding. This represents about three-quarters of GDP. Loans denomi-
nated in convertible currency amounted to somewhat less than half the total
debt, and loans under bilateral clearing accounts to a little over half.
Limited foreign exchange earnings have hindered the payment of debt service,
and notwithstanding the negotiation of several rescheduling agreements,
outstanding arrears on loans due in convertible currency totalled US$115
million at the end of 1978. During 1978 debt service due to all foreign
creditors amounted to US$116 million of which only US$64 million was actually
paid. In that year the ratio of debt service payments due to gross export
earnings was about 33 percent, and 48 percent when debt service on private
borrowings, i.e. that owed by the two mixed bauxite companies, is included.
15.        Service for debt outstanding at December 31, 1978 will average
US$136 million p.a. over the 1979-81 period. Even if foreign capital
inflows cover the entire foreign exchange costs of new investments, arrears
between 1979-81 are likely to rise further, at a pace provisionally esti-
mated at US$60 million per annum, of which two-thirds in convertible cur-
rency. Service on new commitments would, of course, further increase this
amount. With limited scope to maneuver, the Government has addressed the
problem through debt rescheduling programs negotiated bilaterally with some



-6-
creditors, and measures to improve debt management through the newly estab-
lished External Debt Department in the Central Bank, to which the Bank has
provided technical advice as part of its economic work. The Government has
also undertaken a stricter control of investments financed by external
credits, and a more judicious import program. During the nexL few years,
Guinea will have to rely on substantial amounts of foreign assistance on
concessionary terms not only for investment purposes but also to provide
foreign exchange for intermediate and consumer goods imports, which are vital
to stimulate economic activity and relieve supply constraints particularly in
the rural sector. Furthermore, despite the Government's achievements in
keeping the growth of current consumption expenditures below the growth of
revenue, net public savings after debt service will be negligible and local
cost financing by external sources will be needed.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN GUINEA
16.       To date, the Bank Group has financed seven operations in Guinea.
Two loans totalling US$73.5 million in 1968 and 1971 financed infrastructure
for the Boke bauxite mining project. IDA credits of US$7.0 million, US$14
million, and US$8.0 million respectively were granted in June 1975 for a
pineapple development project, in December 1975 for a road maintenance
project, and in September 1978 for a first education project. In January 1979
two credits were signed, one of US$12.5 million for a first water supply and
sanitation project, the second, US$1.1 million for a power engineering and
repair project. Annex II contains a summary of Bank loans and IDA credits
and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
17.       In view of the general shortage of foreign exchange and the poor
state of infrastructure in Guinea, the Bank Group's first projects aimed at
promoting mining and agricultural exports and rehabilitating the road system.
The Boke Project was completed satisfactorily and bauxite output has increased
steadily. Despite some delays in execution, the Daboya Project is now export-
ing fresh fruit to Europe; a second pineapple project based on expanded
smallholder development is under consideration. The First Highway Project
followed shortly after the Daboya Credit and has been largely successful in
rehabilitating and maintaining a major part of the road infrastructure network
vital for agricultural development.



-7-
18.       Our experience in the execution of these earlier projects has been
encouraging, reflecting the fact that Government priorities generally coincide
with the Bank Group's. We are therefore expanding our efforts to maintain and
upgrade basic infrastructure through the Water Supply and Power Engineering
Projects, the latter initially concentrating on the deteriorated system in
Conakry, and through a more comprehensive First Power Project to be appraised
in late 1979. The proposed Second Highway Project supports this strategy
and would expand the road rehabilitation and maintenance work begun under the
First Highway Project. It would also strengthen certain sector institutions
to help Guineans acquire and successfully apply the engineering skills neces-
sary to plan, design, and implement road transport projects. The Associa-
tion's First Education Project arose out of the clear need for more trained
technical manpower and aims to assist the Government in improving and expand-
ing training programs for industrial technicians and skilled workers with
emphasis on institution building. Because of the vital importance of mining
to alleviate the country's foreign exchange shortage, the Bank Group is also
considering further intervention in this sector. Feasibility studies are
being reviewed for the Nimba Iron Ore Mining Project.
19.       The Government of Guinea places a high priority on the development
of its agricultural and livestock potential. It is in the rural sector,
however, that the country is experiencing the greatest difficulty in harness-
ing its development potential. The Bank Group has attempted to support this
Government priority, but has experienced considerable difficulty in finding
non-enclave projects suitable for financing. Basic institutional support
for the rural sector, economic incentives to farmers and herdsmen, the use
of modern technology, as well as applied agricultural research activities
are virtually non-existent in the country. This affects the willingness of
Guinean farmers to respond to rural development efforts. To come to grips
with these fundamental issues we have been working with Government to prepare
a first series of projects that entail direct intervention in the livestock
and rice sectors. The proposed Rice Development Project stresses institution
building at the national level; in addition, it would introduce on a pilot
basis improved low cost rice production methods to test farmer response in a
remote but potentially highly productive part of the country. A livestock
project, now in its final stages of preparation, would aim at institutional
strengthening of the Ministry's livestock development capacity, improvements
through veterinary measures of animal health and productivity, and selective
training of livestock extension staff. In order to get the full benefit from
the technical and institutional strengthening anticipated under these and
future rural development projects, the agricultural extension service must be
strengthened throughout. Such improvements may be undertaken as part of a
second education project now under consideration.
20.       The Bank Group's share in Guinea's external debt outstanding and
disbursed and of total public debt service amounted to 8.4 percent and 14.2
percent, respectively in 1978 with IDA representing one-fifth of Bank Group's
commitments and a negligible proportion of service payments. By 1985, the
Bank Group's share in debt outstanding will be about 7 percent but with a
larger proportion owed to IDA; because most of the debt currently owed the



-8-
Bank will be amortized by the mid-eighties and payments on new IDA borrowings
will not yet be due, IBRD's share of debt service will drop to 2 percent,
while that of IDA will remain insignificant.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
21.       The agricultural sector provides a livelihood for about 80 percent of
Guinea's population and generates about 40 percent of GNP.  Guinea's varied
climatic zones provide potential for highly diversified production ranging
from cereals and legumes to fruits and plantains as well as industrial crops
such as coffee, cocoa, coconut, oil palm and rubber. The country is also well
suited for beef production; cattle number over one million head with ownership
distributed between over 130,000 families representing about a quarter of
Guinea's rural population. Further, Guinea's many rivers and flood plains
offer considerable potential for irrigated or water controlled rice produc-
tion. Despite its natural advantages, however, Guinea's agricultural per-
formance has been disappointing over the past two decades as real growth
in the sector has averaged less than 2 percent per year. In 1958, Guinea was
the largest exporter of bananas in West Africa and was exporting considerable
quantities of pineapple, coffee and palm kernels as well. Agricultural
exports have steadily declined since, falling from a level of about US$22
million in value in 1960 to virtually zero today. The country has also moved
from self-sufficiency in rice in the 1950s to a dependence on imports of that
commodity amounting to an annual average of 30,000 t in recent years; rice now
represents over half of Guinea's food imports, costing the country more than
US$18 million a year in scarce foreign exchange.
22.       Rice is Guinea's major crop and staple food:  half of the country's
cropped area is cultivated to rice, and annual per capita consumption amounts
to about 50 kg. Two-thirds of the national output comes from the ecologically
favored Forest and Maritime Regions. About 60 percent of the rice is grown
under rainfed conditions with the remainder grown in swamplands adjacent to
watercourses and in coastal marshes. Annual production in recent years has
averaged about 375,000 t of paddy, but yields have been very low averaging
about .75 t per ha. The reasons for this low productivity are the same as
for the rural sector in general: low investment levels, absence of readily
available technical knowledge because of the weakness of the national research
program and weak and underequipped extension services, and the failure of the
State-imposed pricing structure to provide adequate incentives to producers.
Development Strategy
23.       The Government's approach to the rural sector in Guinea has passed
through two distinct phases of evolution and appears poised for a third.
During the 1960s Government made little effort to stimulate rural production
through investment or provision of services. Farmers and herdsmen were left



-9-
to organize themselves, Government being satisfied to try and capture produc-
tion through official marketing channels. Public investment in agriculture
rarely exceeded 10 percent of total public investment in any given year; the
result was a substantial return to subsistence cultivation from the earlier,
higher levels of production and decay of the fresh fruit export-oriented
subsector. In the mid-1970s public investment in the rural sector increased
sharply as Government embarked on a campaign to organize villagers into
production cooperatives; over 2,000 such cooperatives were set up and each was
endowed with equipment, most often a farm tractor plus associated implements.
The objective of this campaign was to substantially increase rice production,
but the results have not been encouraging. Faced with critical equipment
maintenance problems, perennial shortages of labor, and lacking improved
agronomic techniques, the cooperatives have realized lower yields than private
farmers. At best, the cooperatives have cultivated about 15 percent of
Guinea's rice area and have produced about 8 percent of the national rice
output; since most of their output has been captured by the State marketing
system, a secondary objective of the campaign was met, which was to channel
domestic rice to non-agricultural consumers through State outlets.
24.       Reassessment of this second phase of its rural development strategy
by Government has paralleled preparation of the proposed project. It is
probable that a substantial number of the cooperatives will be abandoned with
a return to greater reliance on production from family farms. Most important,
however, is Government's present goal to upgrade agronomic practices as the
best means to increase productivity. Government intends to make available
improved seed, fertilizer and crop husbandry technology both to individual
farmers and to some of the cooperatives, which, thanks to good management and
local support, have achieved acceptable production levels. The proposed
project is in step with the evolution of Government's strategy.
Sector Institutions
25.       Overall responsibility for planning and coordinating the imple-
mentation of Government's rural development strategy rests with the Ministry
of Agriculture, Waters, Forestry and Cooperative Farming (the Ministry of
Agriculture). Implementation of rural development programs is controlled by
seven regional "Commissariats Generaux de la Revolution" (CGRs) under which
are grouped the country's 33 Administrative Regions. They in turn make use of
the base level administrative subdivisions of the country, which group several
villages (usually about 250 families) under a small committee into what is
called a "Pouvoir Revolutionnaire Local" (PRL). Member families are expected
to support their PRL by contributing labor to community activities such as
cooperative farming and building communal facilities; the benefits of these
community activities are shared by all.
26.       Agricultural extension services fall under the aegis of the regional
CGRs and are set up to provide one agent to each PRL. Extension agents are
poorly trained and the service is chronically short of resources such as
transport, field equipment and seasonal inputs to undertake demonstration
activities. A major weakness is the lack of technical knowledge and research
in the country upon which extension agents can base their recommendations.
The existing agricultural research stations (there are four, of which two,
Bordo in Upper Guinea and Koba in Maritime Guinea, concentrate on rice) are



- 10 -
under-staffed and under-equipped, thus precluding meaningful field trials and
demonstration activities. Further, until 1978, when Guinea joined the West
Africa Rice Development Agency (WARDA), it had been effectively isolated from
international agronomic research for the past 20 years.
27.       Under the guidance of both the Ministry of Pre-university Education
and the Ministry of Higher Education and Scientific Research, school curricula
at all levels include agricultural training; in secondary schools about
25 percent of the school week is dedicated to a school cultivated farm, the
income of which helps to finance school operating costs. Agricultural train-
ing faculties are located in most administrative regions and offer two-year
courses with about half the time spent on the faculty farm. Successful
students go on for three-year courses at the agricultural colleges of Kankan
or Foulayah. Despite this substantial effort, the quality of agricultural
training is constrained by lack of laboratory and field equipment, textbooks
and journals, and, above all, appropriately qualified teaching staff. The
formal aspects of these problems would be addressed in the second education
project now under preparation; the proposed rice project's training fellowship
and on-the-job training programs would upgrade staff now on duty.
28.       Arrangements for the provision of agricultural credit are available
through the Banque Nationale de Developpement Agricole (BNDA) at interest rates
of 6 percent, 7 percent, and 8 percent for seasonal, medium-term and long-term
credit respectively. The extreme scarcity of seasonal inputs available through
official outlets, the provision of State loans directly to cooperatives (in
the form of machinery for which payment is made in kind), and the lack of
field offices for direct contact with farmers, all have led to a very low rate
of credit usage through the BNDA.
Price Levels and Incentives
29.       The Government's centralized system of purchasing agricultural goods
from farmers at set prices was to be complemented by offering consumer goods
through State stores at reasonable prices. Historically, these official
producer prices appear to have been too low in relation to the official prices
of consumer goods; such goods have, moreover, been in extemely short supply
through official channels because of import restrictions. The result has been
the development of the "parallel market", augmented by trade across national
frontiers, wherein agricultural produce and consumer goods have traded at
prices five to eight times the official prices in Guinea. Because of official
resistance and the difficulties posed by inadequate infrastructure, transac-
tions on the parallel market have not had much impact on overall agricultural
production in Guinea. Moreover, recent liberalization of commercial activi-
ties in the country has effectively reduced the differential between the
official and parallel markets. The time is now right for selective increases
in producer prices with reference to consumer goods being traded in Guinean
markets. The pricing study included under the proposed project would be
providing recommendations on such changes.



- 11 -
Bank Group Role
30.        Up to now, the Bank Group has not found a suitable formula for
intervention in Guinea's rural sector outside of the enclave-natured Daboya
Project. The preparation of the rice project, and of the livestock project to
come, has involved considerable work and lengthy dialogue with Government.
Such efforts have paid off both in shaping the projects towards technically
sound objectives acceptable to Government, and in assisting the Government in
its recent reassessment of its overall rural development strategy (para 24).
With the concomitant changes in marketing conditions, the Bank Group is now
well placed to attempt a non-enclave intervention in the rural sector, spe-
cifically in the rice subsector which is critical for Government's objective
to reduce food imports.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
31.        The proposed project was prepared during 1977/78 by consultants
financed under the Daboya Pineapple Project (Credit 569-GUI). Appraisal
took place in May 1978 during which the project was modified so as to place
greater emphasis on institution building and on cost-effective measures to
augment the productivity of smallholders. A follow-up mission in October 1978
reached agreement with Government on the revised proposals. Negotiations were
held in Washington in July 1979 with a delegation from Guinea headed by His
Excellency Alafe Kourouma, Minister of Agriculture, Waters, Forestry and
Cooperative Farming. The Staff Appraisal Report No. 2389-GUI dated August 17,
1979 is being distributed separately. Maps IBRD 14163R and 14164 show the
location of the project area and Annex III provides the timetable of key
events in project preparation and processing.
Project Objectives and Description
32.        The project comprises a national institution-building component and
a pilot scheme. Through its national component, the project would promote
development of the rice subsector by creating a coherent, policy-making
capability at the level of the Ministry of Agriculture. Provision of improved
technical information on rice production under Guinean conditions would be
assured through the establishment of two research stations located in the
country's major rice producing areas and of a substation in the Gaoual-
Koundara Region. Preparation of a new project for development of Upper Guinea,
one of the highest potential areas for rice growing in the country, would be
provided, as would training of staff to upgrade the overall level of compe-
tence. In carrying out the proposed study of producer prices, the Government
would develop the basis for revisions to the existing official price structure
which should result in adequate incentives to producers for a wide variety of
agricultural commodities. The national component would specifically provide
for:



- 12 -
(a) technical assistance (15 man-years), offices, vehicles and other
equipment for the establishment in the Ministry of Agriculture
of a rice development planning and coordination agency, the
'v,eration Nationale pour le Developpement de la Riziculture"
(ONADER), and consultant services for specific project imple-
mentation activities (building designs, etc.);
(b) consultant services (15 man-months), buildings, vehicles and
other equipment for the establishment of rice research capacity
in major rice growing areas;
(c) consultant services (18 man-months), vehicles and equip-
ment for the Upper Guinea project preparation study;
(d) consultant services (28 man-months), vehicles and equip-
ment for the study on agricultural prices and rural
incentives;
(e) consultant services (8 man-months), for the preparation
of a possible follow-up to the Gueckedou pilot project;
and
(f) fellowships (22 man-years) for the training of staff
connected with the project.
33.       The Pilot Project at Gueckedou in Guinea's fertile Forest Region
would assist some 2,700 farm families and 12 mechanized cooperatives cul-
tivating altogether some 5,000 ha of upland rice and 1,300 ha of swamp rice
and increase their yields to achieve an incremental annual output of about
4,500 t of paddy. On-site agronomic experiments to be carried out during
execution of the pilot project should result in improved agronomic techniques
applicable throughout the Forest Region, and the pilot operation itself would
serve as the base, if it succeeds, for an expanded follow-up project in that
area. Furthermore, the component would assure the regular provision of
improved rice seed to farmers participating in the pilot operation as well as,
eventually, surplus seed for use in the anticipated follow-up project. The
Pilot Project component would specifically provide for:
(a) technical assistance (14 man-years), housing, buildings,
vehicles and other equipment for the establishment and
operation of the "Operation Riz Gueckedou" (ORG) including
extension services, training, adaptive research and demon-
strations, seed multiplication, swampland improvements,
feeder road construction and equipment maintenance; and
(b) the provision on credit to both individual family farms and
farmer cooperatives of improved seed and fertilizer; of rice
seeders, trailers, rice hullers, spare parts and maintenance
services to farmer cooperatives; and of some upgraded swamplands
improved under the project to selected family farms.



- 13 -
Project Implementation
34.       The project would be implemented over five years.  The national
component would be executed by ONADER under the direct supervision of the
Minister of Agriculture and with a qualified Guinean director general at its
head (Sections 3.01 (b) and (c) of the draft DCA). Government agreed at
negotiations to assure that ONADER would have a substantial degree of finan-
cial autonomy through the establishment of two separate revolving funds to
cover working capital requirements: a foreign exchange revolving fund to be
in its name in the Guinean Bank for External Commerce (BGCE) and a local
currency revolving fund to be in its name in BNDA (Sections 2.03 (a) and 3.01
(d) of the draft DCA). IDA would provide US$100,000 for the foreign exchange
fund and would replenish the account upon receipt of evidence of disbursements
from the fund for allowable expenditures. As a condition of credit effec-
tiveness, the Government would be required to deposit the equivalent of
US$250,000 (5 million sylis) in the local currency revolving fund (Section
6.01 (d) of the draft DCA).
35.       The pricing study, for which terms of reference and an implementa-
tion calendar were agreed during negotiations, has been designed to provide
maximum dialogue at senior Governmental levels, and between IDA and Government
during the course of the study and after its conclusion. During negotiations,
agreement was reached on the establishment of an interministerial committee
to provide information to and liaise with the consultants and with IDA.
This committee is essential as the study would require liaison with a number
of Ministries and, at its conclusion, would have a cross-sectoral impact.
Government also agreed to provide all the information and assistance needed
by the consultants undertaking the study, to consult regularly with IDA
during study implementation, and to review the final conclusions of the study
(expected to be completed by December 1981) with IDA not later than March 31,
1982. The study is expected to result in adjustments of agricultural input
and output prices and other policy changes concerning fiscal and monetary
matters so as to improve rural incentives and productivity (Section 3.04 of
the draft DCA).
36.       Formal training offered to Guinean cadres under the project would
be in the form of about 50 short-term (1-6 month) fellowships and 12 medium-
term courses (up to one year) for managerial and technical training of senior
project staff. The short-term training would consist of courses with IITA,
WARDA, and IRAT to acquaint Guinean staff with international research work,
or familiarization secondments with appropriate specialist sections of
relevant Bank and/or other projects in West Africa. An outline training
fellowship program was agreed with Government during negotiations and would be
discussed and revised with IDA annually.
37.       New stations for applied rice research and demonstrations would
be constructed, equipped and staffed in the Maritime and Upper Guinea areas,
including training of Guinean agronomists through the fellowship program
and the provision of consultant assistance during research implementation.
Together with the field trials to be undertaken in connection with the
pilot project in the Forest Region, the program would cover the natural



- 14 -
conditions of about 80 percent of the country's rice area. The provision of
new stations in the Maritime and Upper Guinea areas, rather than refurbishing
of the existing delapidated centers refer-ed to in paragraph 26 has been
decided upon because the new sites would be more representative of their
ecological areas and offer potential for expansion into activities such as
seed multiplication at a later date. Further, no cost savings would be
effected by taking on the existing centers which would need total refurbishing
and currently operate on a minimal budget. The existing centers are expected
to be eventually abandoned by Government. Prior to research implementation in
1981, ONADER would provide not later than June 30, 1980 for the Association's
approval, a schedule for program implementation including proposed field
trials. Research results would be reported annually. (Section 3.03 (a) of
the draft DCA). Contingent upon initial implementation, satisfactory to IDA,
of the main research program, a substation in the Gaoual-Koundara Region would
also be financed (Schedule 2, Part B (b) of the draft DCA). This ecological
area, which encompasses about 30,000 ha of rice, has specific problems relat-
ing to the need to test and develop short-cycle rice varieties.
38.       The Gueckedou Pilot Project would be executed by ORG which would
be set up as an operating division of ONADER. During negotiations, Government
agreed to grant ORG substantial managerial autonomy under a competent Guinean
director with ONADER charged to provide guidance and services, including
financial support, to ORG in the carrying out of the pilot project (Section
3.01 (b) and (c) and Schedule 2 of the draft DCA). Government provided an
assurance during negotiations on the timely provision of land for project
purposes. A timetable to this effect was agreed upon. Additionally, Govern-
ment agreed that existing cultivators of swamplands improved under the project
would be provided the right to continue cultivating their land after the
improvements had been made (Section 3.11 of the draft DCA). Government also
provided an assurance that it would take steps to provide adequate financial
incentives to farmers in the pilot project area in order to ensure their
participation (Section 3.06 of the draft DCA). It was agreed that such
measures would include the stocking of the Government store at Gueckedou with
ample quantities of consumer goods. As such goods are sold at official prices
which, like farm output prices, are substantially below parallel market
prices, this should act as a significant interim measure prior to the anti-
cipated improvement of Guinea's agricultural price structure.
The Pilot Project
39.       The Gueckedou area in the Forest Region in southeastern Guinea
was chosen for the pilot program because of its high potential for rice
development and its possibilities for diversification into other crops
during a later development phase. The pilot project area of about
22,500 ha comprises 12 PRLs with about 3,000 families cultivating an average
2.2 ha of which 1.5 ha of upland rice and 0.5 ha of swampland rice. These
families also participate in the partly mechanized cooperatives of their PRLs.
Currently, the smallholders in the pilot project area are estimated to produce
only marginally more rice than their family requirements, while the co-
operatives' revenues barely cover operating and equipment replacement costs.
Through the technical improvements introduced under the pilot project, about
2,700 of these farming families and the 12 cooperatives are expected to be
able to raise net returns and produce surpluses.



- 15 -
40.       The proposed improvements would be mainly agronomic, concentrating
on the use of improved seed, fertilizer and (selectively) pesticides, and on
improvements to cultivation practices such as weeding, transplanting for
swampland rice and line seeding for upland rice. Farmer cooperatives would
receive on credit seed drills and trailers and spare parts for existing
machinery, and training in proper machinery utilization and maintenance.
Extension agents, one for each PRL, would familiarize the farmers with the
project's recommendations, which would be further demonstrated through the use
of comparative field trials.
41.       Multiplication of improved seed would be carried out on a 400 ha
mechanized farm plus seed processing plant. Breeder seed would be made
available by IITA. To increase the capacity of the farm, three cooperatives
would be involved towards the end of the pilot project period so as to provide
a surplus of improved seed, which could be made available to other farmers in
the Forest Region in a follow-up phase. About 700 ha of swamplands would be
improved under force account by building simple water control devices; some
1,400 families would benefit while the rest would continue to cultivate
unimproved lands but would receive extension advice on techniques for partial
water control. The equipment in place for the swampland improvements would
also be used for the upgrading to all-weather surface of some key access roads
in the pilot project area. Five small rice hullers would be made available on
credit to centrally located PRLs, which would operate them on a commercial
basis taking 5 percent of farmers' paddy as a fee. Training of selected
farmers, tractor drivers, PRL leaders, and extension staff would be offered in
a small training center constructed for this purpose. Outline proposals for
the training program would be provided for IDA's approval not later than June
30, 1980 (Section 3.08 of the draft DCA).
42.       To monitor the pilot project's progress and collect data for the
anticipated follow-up project, a small evaluation unit would be established
at Gueckedou. Emphasis would be placed on yield comparisons and labor
inputs of smallholders and farmer cooperatives under different cropping systems.
The unit would annually produce a brief statistical report on field survey
results. An outline TOR for the evaluation unit's activities was agreed upon
during negotiations. Although concentration on rice is likely in the follow-
up phase, an integrated agricultural development package could be a possibil-
ity. Preparation would begin in the fourth project year under the coordina-
tion of ONADER with IDA's guidance.
Project Cost and Financing
43.       The total cost of the project, net of taxes, is estimated at
US$19.6 million of which US$15.3 million (78 percent) represents foreign
exchange. Included in the project cost is refinancing of an advance from the
Project Preparation Facility of US$300,000 granted in March 1979 to cover
project start-up expenditures prior to credit effectiveness (consultant
services for design work and preparation of bidding documents for project
buildings, training of key Guinean staff, and vehicles and equipment for
project management). Project costs are based on mid-1979 prices and include



- 16 -
physical contingencies and allowances for price increases based on expected
inflation rates. Physical and price contingencies amount to 25 percent of
project base costs. The costs of technical assistance staff and short-term
consultants average US$8,000 per month and total US$3.8 million or 24 percent
of project base costs. Government taxes on fuel and lubricants, representing
an additional US$1.4 million on total project costs, have been excluded. All
other goods, services and salaries would be untaxed.
44.       The IDA credit of US$10.4 million would finance 68 percent of the
project's foreign exchange costs. The African Development Fund (ADF) has
agreed to finance the balance (US$4.9 million) of foreign exchange costs with
lending terms similar to IDA. The Government's contribution of US$4.3 million
would cover all local salaries (US$2.8 million), 25 percent of construction
costs (US$0.7 million), and some locally manufactured items and storage and
distribution costs for fuel and lubricants (US$0.8 million). The Government
would also cover the US$1.4 million equivalent of taxes on fuel and lubricants
referred to above. Financing by IDA and ADF would be on a parallel basis with
the exception of the contract for technical assistance staff which would be
financed pari-passu in the proportions IDA 33 percent, ADF 67 percent. On
other items, IDA would finance the foreign exchange costs of equipment,
vehicles, materials, fellowships, short-term consultant services and fuel and
lubricants, and ADF would finance constructions and fertilizer. Conclusion of
a satisfactory financing agreement between ADF and the Government would be a
condition of effectiveness of the IDA credit (Section 6.01(a) of the draft
DCA).
Procurement and Disbursement
45.       Procurement procedures for all contracts over US$50,000 for vehicles
and equipment would be through international competitive bidding in accordance
with IDA guidelines (estimated to total US$4.3 million). Materials, vehi-
cles and equipment that cannot be grouped in packages of at least US$50,000
each, or are not suitable for ICB, would be procured under local competitive
bidding procedures acceptable to IDA, or through negotiated purchase on the
basis of local price quotations (US$0.5 million). Fuel and lubricants (IDA
contribution US$2.0 million) would be procured through contracts arranged with
ONAH, Government's central importing agency for petroleum goods. Certain
minor materials, furnishings and small equipment which are currently obtained
through centralized Government importing agencies would continue to be imported
through this mechanism (estimated to total US$0.5 million). Arrangements for
the hiring of internationally recruited staff (IDA contribution US$1.0 million),
for short-term consultant services (US$1.6 million) and for training fellowships
(US$0.5 million) would be handled under procedures satisfactory to IDA.
Forward planning of procurement activities would be facilitated by regular
updating during project supervision of lists of goods and services required
for the project during the forthcoming twelve-month period.
46.       The IDA credit would be disbursed over five and a half years to
cover: (a) 100 percent of foreign expenditures for vehicles, equipment,
spare parts, furnishings and farm inputs excluding fertilizer (US$4.5
million); (b) 33 percent of foreign expenditures against the contract for



- 17 -
technical assistance staff (US$0.8 million); (c) 100 percent of foreign
expenditures for the fellowship program and for short-term consultant
services (US$1.8 million); and (d) 50 percent of contract costs with ONAH --
the share of ONAH's delivery price which represents c.i.f. costs -- for fuel
and lubricants (US$1.7 million). US$1.6 million would be unallocated.
Categories (a) and (c) include the US$300,000 to refund PPF expenditures. In
order to keep foreign exchange reserves held by Government for the project to
a minimum, disbursements wDuld be made, to the extent possible, through direct
payments to suppliers (Procedure III). The revolving fund in foreign exchange
mentioned in paragraph 34 would be used by Government for some payments under
categories (a) and (c) and would be replenished by IDA upon presentation by
Government of documents evidencing such expenditures. Disbursements against
the costs of the project preparation study in Upper Guinea mentioned in
paragraph 32 (c) would be contingent on IDA's approval of ONADER's recommenda-
tions for the orientation of the study and of the consultants and their terms
of reference (Section 3.03 (b) of the draft DCA).
Credit Arrangements for Pilot Project
47.        Items provided on credit to pilot project participants -- fertilizer
and spare parts for machinery on seasonal credit, and trailers, seed drills,
rice hullers and a fee for the costs of swampland improvement works on
medium-term (3 years) credit -- would be financed through the existing agri-
cultural credit fund of BNDA. Since BNDA does not have field offices, the
pilot project's credit unit would act on its behalf for credit administration
and procurement and delivery of supplies to farmers. The pilot project's
credit unit would train and supervise central committees of the PRLs who would
assist in keeping records and as intermediate handlers of inputs. Inputs
supplied to project participants would be charged at ORG's purchase cost
(delivered Gueckedou). Exceptions to this would firstly be the investment
costs for swampland improvements which would be provided on a pro rata fee
basis covering the average costs (including equipment amortization) of these
works, and secondly, improved seed which would be provided at a price not less
than Government's official purchase price for paddy or in exchange for bags of
farmers' paddy which would subsequently be sold by ORG to Government. At
current official prices for paddy, this arrangement would cover the investment
and operating costs of seed multiplication. For equipment and swampland
improvement fees (3 year medium-term credit) and for farm inputs except
improved seed (seasonal credit), standard Guinean interest rates would be
applied: 7 percent per annum for medium-term credit and 6 percent for sea-
sonal credit. Prior to applying these interest rates, price mark-ups of 10
percent for medium-term and 5 percent for seasonal credit would be applied
inducing an effective interest rate of about 12 percent per annum for both
medium-term and seasonal credit; a rate estimated to cover the rate of infla-
tion in Guinea and credit administration costs. Reimbursement of credit --
including price mark-ups and interest charges -- would be made through the
pilot project's credit service to BNDA and would be allocated towards the
build-up of BNDA's credit fund for future credit operations. In order to
provide Government with recommendations on the restructuring of its credit
operations and interest rates, the agricultural pricing study would include a



- 18 -
component to investigate these matters. The above arrangements were discussed
and agreed with Government during negotiations including agreement that a
model credit contract for use between BNDA, ORG and credit recipients would be
submitted for approval to IDA not later than June 30, 1980 (Section 3.07 (b)
of the draft DCA).
Reports and Auditing
48.       An annual report following a pro forma agreed during negotiations
would be submitted by ONADER within three months after the end of each finan-
cial year and would form the basis for regular discussions between IDA and
Government on project progress and future orientation. Detailed project
accounts together with an audit report prepared by the Ministry of State
Control (MCE) would be submitted to IDA within the same time period. The MCE
functions in Guinea as an independent auditor and its auditing procedures,
which are currently being used in connection with the Daboya Pineapple Project
(Credit GUI-569), are considered satisfactory. Auditing would include speci-
fic verification of all expenditures utilizing the foreign exchange revolving
fund (Sections 3.10(b), 4.01 and 4.02 of the draft DCA).
Project Benefits
49.       The national component of the project would strengthen Guinea's
institutional, manpower and technical capacity for the development of its
rice sector. Through on-the-job training, the applied research program
and the fellowships and consultancy arrangements with international research
institutes, Guinean cadres would acquire the knowledge and experience that
would improve the country's capacity for the planning and implementing of
its rice development objectives. The pricing study would be a timely guide
for Government to adjust its agricultural strategy to stimulate rural pro-
ductivity. The project preparation study in the high potential Upper Guinea
area would pave the way for a future agricultural development project there.
These project components make up 39 percent of project costs. They are
excluded from the project's economic rate of return calculation since their
benefits, which are expected to be considerable, would be internalized into
future policies and programs in the rice and indeed the agriculture sector at
large, and consequently are not directly quantifiable at this stage.
50.       By the end of the five-year pilot project period, incremental
paddy production could reach about 4,500 t (about 3,000 t of rice) per annum,
representing 10 percent of Guinea's average annual rice imports or US$1.4
million in foreign exchange. More importantly, the pilot project could lay
the foundation for continued rice development in the Forest Region. Its
economic viability has therefore been assessed from two perspectives: first,
assuming no further growth in the number of project participants after the
pilot project period, when the economic rate of return would be about 13
percent; and, second, assuming a follow-up rice project based on the infra-
structure and management built up during the pilot project period. The
economic rate of return of the pilot project plus assumed follow-up project is
estimated at about 20 percent.



- 19 -
Project Risks
51.       Successful project implementation would depend critically upon the
calibre of the project's technical assistance staff and senior Guinean per-
sonnel. Seven expatriates would be hired for the project under terms of
reference agreed during negotiations, three for ONADER (an agricultural
economist, an agronomist, a rural engineer), and four for ORG (a seed multi-
plication agronomist, a development agronomist, a rural/ public works engi-
neer, and a mechanic). To facilitate the recruitment and administration of
these expatriate staff, a single reputable international firm would be
employed by Government. The signing of a satisfactory contract for such staff
would be a condition of Credit effectiveness (Section 6.01 (c) of the draft
DCA). Provision for training and upgrading Guinean staff is included and
Government has shown keen interest in taking advantage of it; in fact, the
director of ORG and the deputy director of ONADER will have been through nine
months of intensive training financed by the PPF at the time of project
start-up. For ONADER's activities, carefully defined relations between that
organization and existing ministerial offices and the project's intensive
reporting requirements would reduce the possibility of official interference
or dilution of effort. The project's financing procedures would minimize
risks that could be posed by administrative delays or Guinea's severe shortage
of foreign exchange.
52.       ORG would be located some 700 km from ONADER in Conakry.  Although
communications and managerial relations between the two are carefully arranged
for, there is still a risk of interference in the pilot project by local
authorities. Recognizing the possibility of such an eventuality, the Govern-
ment guaranteed during negotiations that any interference impeding the project
management's authority would be strictly controlled (Section 3.01 (c) of the
draft DCA). As local authorities have indicated their support to the pro-
ject's objectives, such Government intervention is seldom likely to be neces-
sary. In view of the inadequate official rice price, farmers might be dis-
couraged from participating in the pilot project. To minimize such an
eventuality, agronomic improvements would be kept technically and conceptually
simple to blend easily with existing farming systems. Correspondingly, input
costs would be low, posing little extra risk to the farmer by participating,
but would result in a significant increase in productivity. Furthermore,
credit for purchase of these inputs is assured. Government would be regularly
reminded of its commitment to assure adequate price incentives and to stock
the Government store with consumer goods. These measures should provide ample
incentives for farmers to accept and adhere to recommendations on improved
rice cultivation. Moreover, results of the pricing study would become avail-
able in the third pilot project year (the first year of significant farmer
involvement) and would assist Government in adjusting official prices. The
experience gained in the pilot project would, in time, greatly aid Government
in revising producer prices nationwide.



- 20 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
53.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Revolutionary
People's Rhublic of Guinea and the Association and the Recommendation of
the Committee provided for in Article V Section I (d) of the Articles
of Agreement of the Association are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately.
54.       Special features of the draft Development Credit Agreement are
referred to in paragraphs 34-35, 37-38, 41, 44, 46-48, and 51-52 and in Annex
III, Section III of this report. Conditions of effectiveness of the proposed
Development Credit are: (a) the signing of a loan agreement between the
Borrower and the ADF and fulfillment of conditions precedent to an initial
disbursement of such a loan; (b) the satisfactory appointments to the position
of director general of ONADER and of director of ORG; (c) the signing of a
satisfactory contract for the project's technical assistance positions; and
(d) the opening of an account in BNDA with an initial deposit of Sylis 5
million. (See Article VI, Section 6.01 (a), (b), (c), and (d) of the draft
DCA.)
55.       I am satisfied that the proposed Development Credit would comply
with the Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
56.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Development Credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
by I.P.M. Cargill
Attachments
August 28, 1979



-21-                                                Anex I
G1I,IN3SOCSAL INDSCATOU DATA SUIT
WUIN"NWI   aW=pS (AJUIPUtD A
AdICULTsUml.      7l.7                               NOT AS=         CWUliC           UrA       zNCO
1960 L     1970 L uTn1A  S          now  L       w     i    MD  t
1   3 Cva   TA (Us)                  110.0       140.0    2U0.0            261.4      181.9       430.3
1 W A   W 9Q                                9365.0  9. .0    0.6       83.9       282.1
7POULAtIOti AND VITUL. STATISSSCS
mmmPLLVANIMPID-nOA (MlLUONS)   3.1               4.1    5.0
URMAN POPULATION (PIRCtNT or TAL) 10.0          14.0      16.0            17.1       14.2        24.6
POPLATION PWSJCTIONS
POUILATtON DI YtA 2000 (MILLIONS)                       9.0
9IATIONAMY PULI.ATION (MILLIONS)                       23.0
YUt STATOIIAIY POPULATION IS SEACHCD                  2170
POPULATION D1S1TY
PrE SQ. NM.                       13.0        17.0      20.0            18.4       49.4        43.3
PER SQ. Dt. ACEICuLTUIAL LAN      45.0        38.0     70.0            50.8       251.0      149.0
PorULATION ACE SMEUCTUUI (UCtNS)
0-14 TY.                         42.1        42.5      43.1            44.1        43.1        43.2
15-64 Ys.                         35.1        34.7      34.0            32.9       33.2        31.9
65 YtS. AND MoVI                   2.8         2.S       2.9             2.5         3.0         2.S
PO ULATION GROWTH gtATt (PExCENT)
foLAL                             2.2         2.9       2.9              2.7        2.4         2.7
LIUAN                             9.0          6.2       6.2            3.7         4.6         4.3
CRUDt 511TH RATE (PE  TSHOUSAND)    48.0  .     47.3      46.0            46.3       42.4        39.4
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PEa THOUSAND)     28.0        24.0      21.0            17.2       15.9        11.7
GCOSS RErYDOUCTION RATE              3.5L        3.1       3.1             3.1        2.9         2.7
FAMILY PLANSINlG
ACCEMTOIS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)      ..          ..        ..
UsrS3 (PERCENT o0 MARlED WOMEN)     .           ..       ..              ..        12.2        13.2
tOOD AND NUTKITION
INDCX 0V OO0 PRODUCTloN
PCX CAPITA (969-71-100)          102.2      100.0      86.0            94.3        98.2       99.6
Pgg CAPITA SUPPLY O0
CALOlItS (PERCENT O0
pEQUIREMINwS)                  83.0/h      90.0      84.0            89.5        93.3       94.7
PROTINS (GUMS PER DAY)           41.0i,o    44.0       42.7            ss.a       52. L       54.3
Of WRICH ANIMAL AND ?ULSE         ..       29.0/i      *-            17.9        13.6        17.4
CHILD (ACES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE     45.0        36.0      30.0            22.3       18.5        11.4
HCALTR
LIFC EXRCTSANCY AT SIMTH (YTAS)    35.0        40.0      44.0            47.0       49.3        54.7
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (P7R
THOUSAND)                            ..          ..        ..              ..      105.4        68.1
ACCISS Mo SAFE WATER (.ERCSNT OF
* POPULATION)
TOTAL                               0. ..               10.0            20.3       26.3        34.4
URtAN                               ..         ..       27.0            53.9       58.5        57.9
RURAL                               ..         ..        3.0            10.1       13.8        21.2
ACCESS TO EXCRUTA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
oF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..       l3.0        2. 2.5                    16.0        40.8
UR                                  .         70.0       ..             62.5       65.1        71.3
IUZAL                               *-         2.0       ..             13.9        3.5        27.7
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAU        48000.0    31090.0   15300.0/1         17424.7    11396.4      6799.4
POPULATION P7g NURt157NG P01SON   3S90.0      5000.0   2330.0a         2506.6    5552.4        1522.1
POPULATION PER ROSPITAL EED
TOTAL                           1110.0       980.0/k      ..           502.3     1417.1       726.5
U1A84                            240.0       20O.0       ..            201.4      197.3       272.7
RURAL                           2640.0      1020.0       ..           1403.6    2445.9       1404.4
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL 8D            ..        16.0       ..             23.4       24.8        27.5
HOUSING
E1211AGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               ..         ..        ..              4.9        5.3         5.4
OR1N                                ..         ..        ..              4.9        4.9         5.1
RURAL                              ..          ..        ,.              5.5        5.4         5.5
AVEW.E NI18E?.* OF PERSONS PER MOOM
TOTAL                               ..         ..         ..
URBAN                               ..         ..        ..
RURAL                               ..         ..        ..
ACCESS TO ELECTSRICtSY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                               ..          ..        ..              ..       22.5        28.1
U11AN                               ..         ..         ..              ..       17.8        45.1
RURAL                               ..         ..         .,              ..         ..         9.9



-22 -                                               Annex I
Page 2
TABLE 3A
CUINEA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
GUINEA                     REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED Ay RAGES
GU                     ~~~~~~- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) 
SANE        SAME      NEXT HIGHER
MOST RECENT      GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME         INCOME
1960 /b     1970 /b ESTIMATE /b        REGION /c   GROUP /d    GROUP /e
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                  30.0         33.0        ..              59.0       63.3         82.7
MALE                  44.0         45.0         ..             64.2        79.1        87.3
FEMALE                16.0         21.0        ..              44.2        48.4        75.8
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                   2.0         13.0        ..              9.0        16.7         21.4
MALE                   3.0         21.0         ..             12.0       22.1         33.0
FEMALE                 0.4          5.0        ..               4.4        10.2        15.5
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (2 OF SECONDARY)    ..            3.2        ..               7.0        5.6          9.8
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             66.0         36.0        ..             42.2        41.0         34.1
SECONDARY                           26.0         23.0        ..             22.9        21.7         23.4
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENr)          7.0          9.0/f       ..             20.8        31.2        54.0
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           2.0          2.0       2.0              4.0         2.8          9.3
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          13.0         23.0      25.0             44.3        27.2         76.9
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            ..          ..         ..              2.9         2.4         13.5
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                    0.2          1.0        1.0              5.6        5.3         18.3
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..             ..         ..              0.4         1.1         2.5
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)       1400.0       1900.0    2100.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    40.3         40.3      40.1             31.9        24.8         29.2
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               88.2         84.7      83.0             77.6        69.4         62.7
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                   6.1          8.5      10.0              7.9        10.0         11.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 49.6         47.7      46.1             40.8        36.9         37.1
MALE                                  59.5         57.4       55.8             53.9       52.4         48.8
FEW,LE                                39.9         38.1       36.6             25.6       18.0         20.4
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.2          1.0        1.1              1.2         1.2         1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..           ..         ..              ..          ..         15.2
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..             ..         ..              ..          ..         48.2
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..           ..        ..               ..          ..          6.3
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..           ..        ..               ..          ..         16.3
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..        ..            187.6        99.2        241.3
RURAL                                 ..           ..        ..             96.8        78.9        136.6
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..      52.0            138.4        91.9        179.7
RURAL                                 ..           ..        ..             71.0        54.8        103.7
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..           ..        ..             34.5        44.1         24.8
RURAL                                 ..           ..         ..            48.7        53.9         37.5
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a    The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group. Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1977.
/c  Africa South of Sahara;   /d  Low Income ($280 or less per capita, 1976);  /e  Lower Middle Income
(T281-550 per capita, 1976);  7f  1965;   /g  African population only;   /h  1961-65 average;
/i  1964-66;   /j  WHO preliminary/estimated data;   /k  Government hospitals only.
May, 1979



Annex I
D51F15N1T0NS OF SOCLAL 110ICATORS                                                                   Peas 3
Notes:  Altibdagh the dat tsa. dter  fron   ouc.ee generlly judged tbs met  shniatead ratiabis, it should fea ho satd this they may net be Intese-
st7nally t.horeblo  hetaue of the lack of atederdiend deftttiac   end concepts seed by different coutriest I oleti   he date.  The deti  re  neahelese,
usful to dgrlb  ordere of magnitude, indic-te trend., and o.e-eis Le.ecae  malt. doffarencte between  -octei..
T%. adjusted groan       m a   fs. 0 or.eah indicator are pepuluttis- ighted gaetrie  fleis, eutludig the  -nr-   -l.a. of the indicate.  and the neat populated
c-otry In nach group.  foe to teak of data, steepaeee  of cit isdiaatnra  f or Cepine1 Srplue Oil E.pectr  .md of indictees. cf Ac-a.. t  aster and esereca
diapesal, Ofeusieg, means=Iy I   distribution  and Peerc erete  eety ,raPs are pepuletic-wightad gn-tic seine with ut seclusion of the secrte  -a1ue  and
she meetpopulated oentr.  lie   h             seeo   eeeleaogthe isdiuatere denend.  -nailahilteadtendIeatoio.cuintntbesr ised
isrlaie  vrae  of s      - odicitar to   -h..sa.  These..  esna  r   eele  efla   trsatae  f'metd   aose                                oneina the reluen ofoe
LA:ii  lhusd eq. loita   oentidaoa   eneS-  uf  ieultin-oca.uhsnd
Toa       es   urfeen  _oeoPeisiet lan  i-aadiln    aes                           ua     Nbro   epe(oa,uho  s   rrl) earrd by n-c-t  die-
T.tr1icuTturl-Os   eece  bit   circ   tnle    usedI!,:,              inprriy                pat-sprcna o-r cIbs ir reepec cite pauate.tceedaos
or pessa.s,Ily far crops, pastures, sarkst and kitchtnfrde N          er. Ito             say Oclu,de -the c lecioc  Ie diep-sl  aith or  itih-o  cret,oo, of
tie  fallas.                                                                             homcsrcneIae nctby o.toe-oo    yc-   or the ass of pi,
G.NP Pt CAPITA  1001) - CNP per capita  etimotge at currant narhet prios,                  Peenltia_ er  enir    - Populat,ion divfded by  -ae   of prace~icig phyel-
calculted by tas  onertomthod as  arIld Nanb Actas (1915-77 basis)                     clan  qualifiad fron audical achool at  ni-ersicy Ien-I.
0990, 1970,..id 197 7 data.                                                           -ouaso  ntn        -ae  per        - Population didnd by cnber at precticin
manadfes  rduate etae    rcica   ars. ed is istan t_ares.
cloeifiononploNPtt CAPITA -inA...s1         etin   f cercialsrI             (oaI      aulto  pac ho-eital bsd - tota. uea. adcua    Population  Itoce1
an   igie  ptal,e  ouu1 gas a h ydre-, .. alir- in  esibr.lare, and coe dioided by their repntcIe o                                                hsht  topite1 beds
elecinicicyl  ic kilogren  at cast equioalt P.n ..Pit.; iNfO, 1970                      eailihl. In public and prinece genera  an1 d ncIaind hespita1 and re-
an,d 197  dais.                                                                           hubIlit,oa  cetr.            sitalearee. .isblie=isec  pnrmaneocly ateffed by
POiLTION AND V"t_ E.t.-t    tii'_ITAL STATISTICS                                         atlstoepyiin    salecepeiigpinipally cuatodiaI
Tocl cfuetOn.  idyea  iillion) - i of July 1; 1960, 1970, ad                       cas  re  at  eludad.  nralI hoepicale,botr    nld   elhadad
1907 dais.cacmtnnopacety satdhraP"'ysIcise (hcby a1 ondica1 a-_
dIfferntdefeitleti  ofI hnise   my  fft-c  cparebiiity of date                          provide   limited rage  fmdcl  aiiis
asug cIoncII_;  9k,17an175dt.Aditiselus  -a  hogital bsd -Ttlase   fabeie    otdshre
Paoulatlio P'ascionei-                                                                    frI    ositl  dicided by  h s.asb- of beds -
Pagli.teeic Tsa Y- iii0  - Current pepslatio  p-oJ-ion  are basa.d on
1901 terl populatio  by ageadannd thei tet ty an etlity                             wii
ras.Projectionp-    mcr  fam .eilty r"tee cPpieo     ees                          oreeao    osecdIesn                         ho. sehldl -  ia    orb,,. and rural -
auttoleglifesopntaoca tbirhIeestg  u    oor'  per capita                        A hoehoto   --ninte of agop0   oitaleoh                         Iigqacr
ictos  Ieo-I. od feule lIfe  e                -abac  tabliise  at 77.5 yare.             ud ur~ic na. -rele.  A boade  00 ld- ersa  oroy cci be letlur1dtd  I  tin
Th .Pareonoer. for fettil icy rst  alo  at  I leel -I,        aic  decltee              Ao..u.bld for otatisticul parpo..ca.
it frtiicyacccdio c  isoneioi sd pat' fatly   ln p          pe.            Aecucnoco    vnonrt roo2-ta 1uban, aid tona  - A-cerag  cante
f     "'ac.    ah coct  is the  ae ignad se  of three 9 cobinatiane               apronpeccnIcal                   hc,od rural occupied c-neeio...l deellitfa.
-inraiyad fectillry trede for projectionprpas                                    crsocitey.Iccllng          -s  ldn c-peraee   t..uo.r. aodosvopied Parts.
L.iet.o.sry f lain- Iea .tc ayPopulation, chore Is cc groct                            acos  cc electrIcIty  ce          of ds,eis) -  oal   rbn  adrua  -
.itoc chs bit      sIs nqual to the dea:h rate, and als  thn ogr                       CovnioI seli               ich .1-ecitcity In Ilicig qoatrcer  as percentage e
toernins  ---tst   This Ie ache-d only afot.  fertilicycees                       oca, r-c  ad rrldwelling  re-p-ctively.
dec.iceI. to , ob=reIsoee  1-te  of usif sot rspesdoctti   race, oh. en cah
gecrcianIf  o          -a rplon    -icel  sqply.  The iStcionaty Population        EDUCTION
tie   sn tisatd hin .b baste ofe Projected obtha-cceris1 tic  ofthe                   kdtua td ooIlent caItion
population  i  the:yea OA, std iii taco of dcIllco of ferIlIty             te,         fr,iuocoi-ota1ni   ndtml-ioiOtl                                    - aead famae  orll
sear (istinay    r-aio  I. ce-hed - The ysat uhn Stationa.ry Popols-                     acotaepopolaci-o  ,                 1csal   itlude    hideagd k-lI year  bu
clue uis bhe been reehed.                                                               -doidfo     fcrc   eg-ao                 rhor  edcto,  o   onries aich
fauend.ne.. Ittra   dctioncllotny enced 10   ecn   ic   iepupils ore
Ps- to   k. h. -Cd-res  papolation ysr aqoace kilse,ier (lii heortes)                       bc  rabt  the official icb-o  o9..
of cetal area.                                                ieoondary sc~~~~~~~hool    tta   tale aed ton1l  - Conpoted  ushve  uec-odsry  dna.-
Per u.  le.  saicultural land - C.Wptsd so abate fur agricultural lard                   tn    sursa   ec   oryaeo   prvdpiayiorcto;poi
only.                                                                    gececs 1 vocational, or teuciec ccaie.rkg.instructions17cc.pupil s usuallydof
paruatin as sructre  c,ecsel .Children  (0-14 yeas,ar-         g-g               2t   )  er   fs-ocropn  nc   are    r  gonra1 ily eloded
(IS-b yatcf. ad onice   (hiyaas sd ovc-  a   sreea         f mId-           tvoctional eolet II_rca  of sec.idary)- To-ilon1 insittoi-n  inciud
tear  opulclon .0990  I97f a Id97  dai.                                            tecbicel. iedu-coi.I  It otherprgan    hich oeaeinde.pendnctl.vor
p,aopiaoion eroah rate Inrci -total - A-Ius  gronth rtes. of ctal                         dptnersieona1               i-eicutios
id-yaEoplton          Iu 1950-t0, 1900-7i, and 1970-77                                                                 .d..dr              
P~Puj.tl -, 1- 1950-6, 1960-70, ..3  9 0-7primary ond socodary leyn.la divided by  -bnhro   f   ahrtic cre-
popolsilons for 1951-bc  1990-70, and 19)0-70.dig I-I.
b~,    i ti, eato1 Ips  Ituadl.onaI liv  bitobh  pee ch....nd of                     Adul t liteoaoy race  cer--t) - Literat  adults Ihle  torn.d and enite.)a
oto--os   poplacce   AbA  I9fod I0)Osc.                                                 aIacttf   f cotsI adult yopolatio  sand 15 years and once.
fc-dn destb rtn      T lent .t ..tadL- A-eldesthe Per thousad of nid-
Yesr papalocion; 19k0, 1970 aod 197' dais.                                         ioNiipsrrijg
Grcoeersnr-dationrntre-iyeAge;~   t1,esr, o  deughtecaao   il  ha                       Peanarcc   leer1 c1h-ut-d coulatiol-)             sefrcr  coprise  - otrct.
In bee n-ma  reproductiv   peidif _5heeI..c.s preten  age-                              etiog I_ so      _cigho  poems ..ncldec aubuloce, bearest end  tlIc.cY
specficteritoy rates: usually  fit-y-s-sr        ..  ..tn    edin  "it 1990,       vehiolne
1ISGf..ad t975.                                                                       Raicnnoi ,Jetho_ad _claion) - All lypes  If te Fiee  o  radio
Fonily slanin..-ac...nptre . anu-I asadl-isA_l o-esket o                                  bcc-doaiotofeeet-I puhlto  p.r th..und of p.p.l.ti-r  secIc des onl ios-ad
oceseso birch-control  devices order auspirn  ofcsloalfa                          toieiio o --tie-  and In y-a-  hb-rgsrto    f  aicceasI
p  -slg progre.                                                                      effec   data 1ur  -noo  yeect nay not beoonp-onl1 tnensto.,trise
Family  1. eleiea-ua_c   loree  ofnrt mI,eao   -Pr                  eo                    abolished 1 InusimA.
married as      f childbaifaR. f1-_c yers)  hbca  birth-cocel                         V  seieo  le o'I     hc-ied eoeulatio)- T Oboo-lora  for bra cs  c                    1en
decies t  al eared etetit san  si  group,                                        ulcprtoco.ouain   uldsoitte f11                          TV  ece oesIccun-
tries and It yeasb. -egistaioo   bstsaai   fet
100D  NSl lfRITlON                                                                                                      thonnctcuaic,le  i..u..d eolacio    - Sho-  t. esorrge   icue
Inoto  food  c           ,oilncr cano   (1909-11 a 1001 -Iodco as psr .apii.           tico of 'daily gnn Icl  ineosretpapoc. defined asp,riditicl pabli-
anua  produccio  of all foodcodP in            rtduccie  sac -edas need aid           cation devotd yrnaily  I   -oroodin2 general. i-s. It Is conidered to
feed  nd i  on cletdr ymar hesie.  CceedititscIvrr primary goade                   he  'dolly  it it  pp..r  or beestfon  tInesaue
le.tg    rcn   inted   f too   ouch or.  dibleadotaeurens                            Cco,  nua   crdene   ccaitiot  ea- Bond on thn nonhr of ctckei
e.'g. cuff- enad tes acnasc luded) .  uacgite prdu-ion at ench  ou-It                   cola due1  ohr, yea.ttude   adisinst  drie-tn  ti-nas and subtle
it bae  on. nainlaeaeprodacnr price nights.                                             units.
"er capita tunrie11 of calories:. leorcent.!'I cisairscTtu-Conputc .iron
enery  Fqiaoci   ctfa   apie   r  lbst  cutyprcpisEg.y~g
peda.saahrepieaprsdosicproduction, impartn lena                                     L  1'fotoRlabo  tutor :bh-sads:- -cnoicaily ectit  p-c-ce, including assd
reot,adchasn  i   tck    n  epp co nnv lode sntnl teal.  -cndt.                   f        -onod  -t-eloyd hubI cldin    oswvs   tdIt,ec                   cii
q-atitiirac-d in food p-onsnisg,, and L_s.c. in d%tieciuton.  Re-                       cooi  oiu~uttnrntsprbc
qoJirn-oacrntmcd by Oil  bsd  tphtilogica, coeds taf                      o-..aolroo   ...ale lbor force as perce.etagr   f total labor foroc.
mascbyad health cedetiog  neit= -ecs  tneperI'tarI, body                      Aeriltuicurniercoot  - La.borfiorc-to fuoning, t                 h-ttr.butig and finhing
urighte, agn aed  -e  discrihotine  of population, and sooIng 10 Pet-                   aa !~.. pevttg   o~f 5taI labor force.
erfuosnat bood, ld 1nc_l.                                                    Inu r     ecn)-Labor tc    to citing, costraction,  anf-tt-tteg art
Pe   nla eun   of ertnin laatne   e)-  P      roteIdneo  u  pe-ioti  c,acosd fSat perce-ftg  of cola 1 Isher icrc.
c.Pi ta  - .sppl  tt loufd Per day1.. Ie suPPlyoftd s1_         deieda                fa_rc PItirultrinfi   leet nel -cat.. ale  an   le              . lateriniptIon  Or
abon.   inq.i-e ot. for all cIonein  bssliehed by USIA provide fac                      atvttrreaa  apted as totl   oe  ed(cl   abrfrea
a  imler   e        Inse    f 6fget   f  oa  p:Ii rolyad 70gtin                       pernae   fttl  el  n   iaepplca                         f all a bee rfp-ttoy
ofaimled paine proetin, no  aIo  11 grant- eheld henlmlpoci.                       1900, IA' uL,05Jaa    ber  c isParticipation  ratnr fetn
Ths    ta d ad   r   oe  than thirof  5 gros of totl protein  end                   gtire of_t ppuaton  ad lonegtImi-treed.  u te  etmae
FAO Ic thefThird Wtrld Food Survey.                                                   icooni derdecc  i  -A_ocipplol ode                          -5ad h5 -tdcuto
Pnrcanica prati    su       f io   -oelad suIte  - Protein a-pply of ie-d               Eh-lebo d ore Ic one occur of1-h  years.tt                t-
drritsdl rro tnmLs and!  pustIn ir-n  Pn  da.-
Child I sIh  ear ttaic   atn lint obhas-d) - Ao... 1 d-scbs per tboo.-                ItIfOPi lllbTRIBUTI'
and in age group I.4  at  to child-e  intileag  gra;froto                             rrnco        f Privlace ione  ib-h In -.ahoc   ldmnivdbrcha
Lite ee 12arc  ot bircb lorara               - oranr -sr  of yeari If lit. moult-
ta   t bIrc, 5 196, 197. ad 197? data                                            AERTYu 1ARGiT GRi'flf:
cfn    otIlt. rate   l 'th",uadl -       Ina  deathso  Iniato  onde              fu-dod.Ilo   tvtt   coo   eel10   ccccou     oc    n  tutu1
cnnt yeroAc   e   hoadlo    it                                                            b-oiutc  -onrty  o--o leve~litca  Inb. erilon ducth a  it
fathe  of peoplc (coral, orbat  a-d rrl  ulc   _e_nblacs   Ic.frdh
aol'sntar   cllo  -s rsceosoo 0  o, It"  _cpr  o   ocsiv.                      runlIcns             b h oco- -,ry    rhac 1ron  l, derIvd fr-s ohe rura
lit;.  .b   ..ufrrorrr   .tnoc bolddo_och _'lnl                      _per   ,                                                           c--     o-,-;.loc--I   Pa,,,,,
olccooc,,osc   co,0 d    a  It  "'_oth.t d the tua -o aste  veo                                                                   .o.p-d1    c  'ontOo   e,o



24- 24
AMIRX I
Pe  4
REVOLUTIONAUY PEOPLE' S REPIIBlIC O7 GUCDA
ECONQtC IDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODICT 13 1977                                              AMNAL RATE Of GcT          . comtant aticee)
US$ nin         %                         1975-76      1976-77      1977-85 orolected
GNP *t Market Prices                996.S        100.0                         11.7          5.2
Gross Domestic Investmnt            216.8         21.7                        193.3 a      -3t.5 /
Gross National Saving               189.1         19.0                        276.1 Li      -3.4 L
Current Account Balance             -28,8          2.9
Exports of Goods, NPS               316.6         31.8                         28.4         13.9
Imports of Goods, NPS               256.7         25.8                          7.1        -t6.0
OQUTp    LABOR FORCE AND PIODUCTIVITY IN 1976 AND 1977
Value Added /
ns Million                          S
I Zi      1977     Avnrana       1976      1977     AvOriCe
Agriculture                      469.6    346 8        408.2        44.3      32.3       38.3
Industry and Mining              324.8    434.3       379.6         30.7      40.5       35.6
Services                         265.1    291.4        278.2        25.0     27.2        26.1
GDP at Market Prices          1,059.5  1,072.5    1,066.0          100.0    100.0       100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Governmnt
Sylis Billion                       2 of CDP
.1lj      1977      1978         1976      1977
Current Receipts                  5.42     6.16      7.51         23.9.    27.2       31.8
Current Expenditures              3.83      3.86     5.28          16 9      17 0     22 4
Current Surplus /3                1.59     2.30      2.23           7.0      10.1       9.5
Capital Expenditures              1.71      2.18        .           7.5       9.6
External Assistagce (net)/4    1.78        0.72   . 0.01            7.9       3.2       n
Central Governmnt
Sylis Billion _7 of GDP
I.9Z      197I      1978         1976      1977     A2
Current Receipts                  4.86      5.52     6. 90         21.5      24.3     29.3
Current Expenditures              3.45      3.42     4.62          12 2       1 1      19 6
Current Surplus L3                1.41      2.10     2.28           6 2       9.3       9.7
Capital Expenditures LI           1.61      2.07       ,.           7.1       9.1
External Assistanc  /4            1.78     0.72      0.01           7.9       3.2       a
MONEY. CREDIT -and PRICES
1976        1977        1978
(billion Sylis and period)
Money and Quasi Money                        6.7         4.2         4.5
Bank Credit to Public Sector                 8.8         6.5         7.2
Bank Credit to Private Sector                1.0         1.1         1.1
(Percentages)
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP           29.6        18.5        19.1
General Price Index (1972 * 100)/4         140.3       147.5       153.2
Annual % changes in:
Bank Credit to Public Sector                17.6L2     -25.4         9.5
Bank Credit to Private Sector             -11.7         14.1        -0.1
/1  Using implicit GNP deflators (Atlas computations, June 1979).  Growth rates calculated from data in Sytis.
/2  Both 1976 and 1977 are uncharacteristic years:  agricultural production dropped in 1977 becaue of a
drought, end construction and public works registered a large increase compared to previous years
L3  In 1975 and 1976 the Governmnt realized a sizeable budget surplus which ma  used to ropay part of the
outstanding debt with the Central Rank, thereby reducing the money overhang.
4  Excluding foreign grants (external borrowing only).
/   Financed via Treasury.
/6  GNP implicit deflator-(Altas computations, June 1979)
/7  The sharp increase in credit to the public seccor was caused by the transfer of Government claims on
the public sector to the banking system.
not available
not applicable
n negligible
August 1979



- 25 -
AMEX I
Page 5
RCVOLUTIONARY PEOPtE' S REPULIC OF GUINEA
TRADE PAYMTCS AnD CAPITA  FL0OWS
&ALANCE OF PVADMTS                                                                              MERCa1DISE EXPOtS (Average 1976-78)
(Preliminary Eatimtas)
1976        1977        197                                                             Mln   b.
(08$ lMillion)
(auxite                214.4       70.7
Experts of Goods, NFS                     252.8        316.6       348.5                               Alumina                  79.3       26.1
Imports of Goods, NFS                    -284.8       -256.7      -283.5                               Other Cowodtties          97       3.2
Resource Gap (deficit . -1                 -32.0        59.9        65.0
Tocul                  303.4      100.0
Interest Payments tl                       -32.1       -38.1       -43.5
Workers  R*mitt=*nce
Other Factor PAynts (net)                  -50.2       -30.5       -55.5                         EXTERNAL DEpT. Deceaber 31. 1978
Net Transfers                J
Direct Foreign Investmnt                                                                               Public Debt                            906.1
Net ELT Borrowing                                                                                      Total Outstanding & Disburead          906.1
Disbursments, Public Borrowing           67.3        49.4        112.8
Amortization, Public Debt tl            :a"          -49.6       -47.1
Subtotal, Public Borrowing               38.5         -0.2        65.7                        DEST SZRZIjg& RATIO FOR 1978 L4              32.7%
Private Sector (net)                    -25.4        -24.9       -29.1
Total Borrowing                           13.1       -25.1        36.6                               ot whichl  public debt                18.3S
Capital Granta                               ..           .           -tvate debt of                                                         14.37
Other Capital (net)                          ..           .          ..                                               eisd enterprises L5
Other Items n.a. t
Increasc in Reserves LI                    -55.6       -23.5       -72.1
InIJDAlI LENDING le Y| 1978)                055 NMl
Gross Reserves (end year)                   53.2        50.5        29.2                                                                IBRD          IDA
Net Reserves (end year)                   -110.0 *   -133.5       -205.6
Outstanding & Disbursed         61.1          14.9
Fuel and Related Materials                                                                             Und4ibursd4                                    14.1
Imports                                -13.2       -18.6       -27.1
of which:  Petroleum                 -13.2       -18.6       -27,1                                Outesep4ing including           61.1          29.0
Exports                                    ..                                                                Undisbursed
RATES OF EXCSA1GE /3
Through
GS/$                            1.270        1 7    1972   1973   1974   1975   1976        7_1   1978
National Accounts Data                    24.7    24.6   22.7   20.7   20.5   20.3   21.4   2t1.   19 .7
(annual geometric aver&aes)
Balance of Paymnts Data                  24.7    22.7   22.7   20.5   20.2   21.1   21.2   20.3   18.9
(end of period)
/I  Actual paymnts on debt service have been less (see text) resulting in increSeSO  in fore:Lgn liALbtlities and a decline in net foreign reserves
L From reserve positiOn tD.U5 at eand of period
/4  Actual servica paymnts reported to exports of goods and 5Si;
L.  CBG end FRIGUEA.
.  et availablq
aot applicable                                                     Augt 1979



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 1
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN GUINEA
A.   Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits (as of July 31, 1979)
Loan or                                                  Amount (US$ million)
Credit Number  Year      Borrower        Purpose           Bank   IDA  Undisbursed
Two loans have been fully disbursed.                       73.5
569-GUI      1975     Republic of    Pineapple                  7.0      1.4
Guinea          Development
596-GUI      1976      Republic of    First Highway            14.0      1.3
Guinea
849-GUI      1978      Republic of    First Education           8.0      7.6
Guinea
870-GUI      1978      People's Re-   First Water              12.5      11.5
volutionary    Supply and
Republic of    Sanitation
Guirnea
S-22-GUI     1978      Peolple's Re-   Power Engineer-          1.1       0.7
voluationary    ing and Repair
Republic of    Project
Guinea
TOTAL                                           73.5  42.6
of which has been repaid                     13.8   0.0
TOTAL now outstanding                           59.7  42.6
TOTAI, now held by Bank and IDA                 59.7  42.6
TOTAL undisbiirsed                               0.0  22.5      22.5
B.   Statement of IFC Investments
Guinea is not a member of IFC.



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 2
C.   Projects in Execution 1/
Cr. 569-GUI   Pineapple Development Project:  US$7.0 million Credit of July 2,
1975; Effectiveness Date: October 22, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1981.
The project consists of establishing an irrigated pineapple estate
and of providing pineapple growers in its vicinity with supporting services.
Due to the poor performance of the contractor, irrigation works were delayed
by one year but the use of provisional irrigation facilities minimized the
impact of such delays on planting and production targets. Total production
in 1977/78 exceeded 1,100 tons of which 580 tons were exported fresh to Paris
at premium prices. Measures are being taken to better adapt the quality of
this output to the marketing standards of importers and thus increase exports.
Works are now completed and irrigation started in December 1978. Irrigation
works for the second phase network, which will double the total plantation
area to 420 hectares, commenced in early 1979.
Cr. 596-GUI   First Highway Project; US$14.0 million Credit of December 24,
1975; Effectiveness Date: March 19, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980.
Progress on the First Highway Project, a road rehabilitation and
maintenance program covering 2,500 km of high-priority roads, is satisfactory
although execution was delayed by about one year due to slow tendering and
bidding. Training of mechanics and equipment operators is progressing well
and the new management measures introduced by the Ministry of Public Works
with the help of consultants are effectively controlling the project's
financial, equipment and human resources.
Cr. 849-GUI   First Education Project; US$8.0 million Credit of September 28,
1978; Effectiveness Date: January 16, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983.
The project aims at helping alleviate the country's shortage of
skilled workers by improving and expanding technical training programs, and
at strengthening the country's educational planning and project implementa-
tion capacities. Progress is satisfactory.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 3
Cr. 870-GUI   First Water Supply and Sanitation Project; US$12.5 million
Credit of January 12, 1979; Effectiveness Date: April 13, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1983.
The project's objectives are to fulfill the immediate water supply
and drainage needs of Conakry, provide satisfactory sanitation to most of
its population, and strengthen institutions operating in the sector.  The
project is essentially problem free.
Cr. S-22-GUI  Power Engineering and Repair Project; US$1.1 million Credit
of January 12, 1979; Effectiveness Date: April 6, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
The project is intended to complete preparatory work on a large
rehabilitation program for the Conakry power system, part of which will be
appraised in end-1979 as the Bank Group's First Power Project in Guinea.
Replacement equipment has been ordered and the Grandes Chutes Dam feasibility
study is completed.



- 29 -
ANNEX III
Page 1
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Preparation Report:                    February 1978
(b)  Project Preparation Agency:            Ministry of Agriculture assisted
by consultants financed under
Credit 569-GUI
(c)  Appraisal Mission:                     May 1978
(d)  Negotiations:                          July 1979
(c)  Planned Effectiveness:                 December 1979
Section II: Special Project Implementation Actions
Frequent reporting by project implementing agency covering
recent results and forecast of near-term milestones plus intensive on-site
supervision by IDA.
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) ONADER would be answerable directly to the Minister of Agriculture
and-would have a qualified Guinean director general at its head
(para. 34).
(b) ONADER would have substantial financial autonomy for which purpose
Government would establish two separate revolving funds to cover
working capital requirements, one in BGCE in foreign exchange
and one in BNDA in local currency (para. 34).
(c) Terms of reference for the pricing study, arrangements for an
inter-ministerial committee for liaison with IDA and the consultants
undertaking the study and target dates for study implementation and
completion were agreed (para. 35).
(d) For the applied rice research program at Gueckedou and the two sites
to be chosen by Government by November 30, 1979, an implementation
schedule and proposed rice field trials would be submitted to IDA
for approval not later than June 30, 1980, and during implementa-
tion, research results would be reported annually (para. 37).
(e) Establishment of the Gaoual/Koundara substation would be contingent
upon initial implementation, satisfactory to IDA, of the Upper
Guinea and Maritime Region research programs (para. 37).
(f) ORG would have substantial managerial autonomy and be headed by
a competent Guinean director (para. 38).



ANNEX III
Page 2
(g) The draft credit contract between BNDA, ORG and credit recipients,
based on an outline agreed during negotiations, would be submitted
for IDA's approval not later than June 30, 1980 (para. 47).
(h) Adequate financial incentives would be provided to pilot project
participants (para. 38).
(i) Farmers cultivating swamplands chosen for improvement would be
allowed the option to continue cultivation of their parcels after
the improvements have been made (para. 38).
(j) An outline fellowship program was agreed, and an outline training
program for the Gueckedou component would be submitted for IDA's
approval not later than June 30, 1980 (paras. 36 and 41).
(k) Terms of reference for the Gueckedou evaluation unit were agreed
(para. 42).
(1) Annual reporting requirements and procedures for timely planning
of procurement were agreed (para. 48).
(m)  Accounting and auditing procedures wuld be satisfactory to IDA
(para. 48).
(n) Arrangements for the hiring of internationally recruited technical
assistance staff and consultant services, and for training fellow-
ships wuld be handled under procedures satisfactory to IDA
(para. 45).
(o) Disbursements against the costs of the project preparation study
in Upper Guinea would be contingent on IDA's approval of ONADER's
recommendations for the orientation of the study and of the consul-
tants and their terms of reference (para. 46).
Conditions of Project Effectiveness:
(a) The signing of a loan agreement between the Borrower and
the ADF and fulfillment of conditions precedent to an
initial disbursement of such a loan (paras. 44 and 54);
(b) Satisfactory appointments to the positions of director general
of ONADER and of director of ORG (paras. 34, 38 and 54);
(c) The signing of a satisfactory contract for the project's
technical assistance positions (paras. 51 and 54);
(d) The opening of an account in the BNDA with an initial deposit
of 5 million Sylis (paras. 34 and 54).



A  o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~wr  - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IBD14WI R
Co ~ ~ ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     na                                                                                                                                                                  0                   O;-
MALI       GIV         N.- 
N16M~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2
*Z2                                                                 ff, - l   +  - 
N.tor~~~~~ R.nP).RSo,O                                                                                                                                                                      4ai
-   f~~~~o G.te ~    ~           ~         ~          KO        ARC OAoAeZON
A7LN"CWEA -
nt~~O~~OOOOI                               red pOr,aPE,$
+ ~~ ,OvOeO A,d,rId6
In tn.- O  8oOmk                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        A
olaboui                                                                             Dabolo~~~






IBRD 14164
MARCH  1979
Tinkia                                                                    a so
> . X ~~Bandala'
GUINEA
l ahounn          7
RICE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
-        GU ECKEDOU PI LOT PROJ ECT AREA
rn     Project Headquarers
GUELO   PRL Locations
NASAYA                                        Main Roads
-8°4Cf    )    YedeKOu                        Roads for Upgrading                s&ow.
,, \    4°                                                   Main Rivers
Main Tributary Streams
-   '    International Boundary
Setr                 o        2         4
Soatthernt  <                        KILOMETERS
Seatemr
Tho nap has be-nprepard by the
World B-khO  staff .  cOo, ve,r f,r
th   - --c,hO   of the teder  of
Bandalo.0      <                                                          thetepotetP,t d thewh,d t -thi
,   W  M ADI N A                                   -do hot ohpl, thi thte pat of the
/ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~World BOrnS and its afflltates, anr
or -'   - th'etcc e of  sech  .ouneehes
,--ARAEWKDOU                         BAWA ,--
_~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~d-                                           1.9. <~~  < rv         i
GUINEA    f -h ~          - 
MACEX  N Ag j    ,.-,o'kHEREMAKOG U I N E A
KOUVM     'cAKN
° d             i 'E' '> RATATIC  SI EL R R  A.  T! >   i
HEREMAKONO ~ ~ ~~~~~ONECI" 
-s°er  _ <          ~~LI|B ERIA                                                                LocEAAf        i         i              > u.
sr,0°,at                                                                          1a¢     ~    ~     9LIA  BE RI  A,



