CREDIT NmRRit      GUI
DOCUMENTB,o
Development Credit Agreement
(Rice Development Project)
between
REVOLUTIONARY PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OP GUINEA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVEOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Date                                 1979
~n i


﻿CREDIT NUMBERf2GUI
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT ArREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                             , 1979, between
REVOLUTIONARY PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF GUINEA (hereinafter called the
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter
called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association
to assist in the financing of the cost of the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement by extending the Credit as herein-
after provided;
(B) the Borrower intends to contract from the African
Development Fund (hereinafter called ADF) a loan. (hereinafter
called the ADF Loan) in an amount in various currencies equivalent
to four million two hundred thousand Units of Account
(UA4,200,000) to assist in financing the Project on the terms and
conditions set forth in an agreement (hereinafter called the ADF
Loan Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and
ADF;
(C) for the purpose of assisting the Borrower in the prepa-
ration of the Project, the Association, pursuant to an exchange.
of letters between the Borrower and the Association, dated
March 29, 1979 and April 3, 1979, respectively, has granted to
the Borrower an advance (hereinafter called the Advance) in
various currencies equivalent to three hundred thousand dollars
($300,000);
(D) the Association is refunded the Advance out of the
proceeds of the Credit provided for herein; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter
alia of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974,
with the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth


﻿-2-
herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the
General Conditions).
Section 1.02.  Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "ONADER" means Opgration Nationale pour le Dfveloppement
de la Riziculture, a department to be established under the
Project ,within the Borrower's Ministgre de l'Agriculture, Eaux
et Forfts et FAPA;
(b) "ORG" means Opfration Riz Gueckedou, a managerially
autonomous agency of ONADER, to be established for purposes of the
pilot rice project included in the Project;
(c) "BGCE" means the Borrower's Banque Guin&enne du
Commerce Extfrieur,  a State financial corporation established
and operating pursuati to the Borrower's Decree No. 190/PRG of
June 6, 1961;
(d) "BNDA" means the Borrower's Banque Nationale de D6vel-
oppement Agricole, a State financial corporation established and
operating pursuant to the Borrower's Decree No. 176/PRG of June 2,
1961;
(e) "Syli" means the currency of the Borrower;
(f) "Foreign-exchange Revolving Fund" means the account
opened by the Borrower in BCCE in accordance with the provisions
of Section 2.03 of this Agreement; and
(g) "Syli Revolving Fund" means the account opened by the
Borrower in BNDA in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.01
(d) of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the


﻿-3-
Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to ten million four hundred thousand dollars
($10,400,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Associa-
tion, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit.
(b) As of the Effective Date of this Agreement, the Associ-
ation shall withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself,
on behalf of the Borrower, the amount required to repay the
principal amount withdrawn and outstanding, together with the
accrued service charges and other charges, if any, thereon, of the
Advance. Any amount of the Advance remaining unwithdrawn shall
automatically be cancelled on the same date.
Section 2.03. (a) The Borrower shall open and maintain a
Foreign-exchange Revolving Fund in BGCE in the name of ONADER and
shall cause BGCE to credit and debit for the account of ONADER the
Foreign-exchange Revolving Fund in accordance with the following
provisions:
(i) there shall be credited to the Foreign-exchange
Revolving Fund: (A) such amounts as shall from time
to time. be withdrawn from the Credit Account
an  deposited in the Foreign-exchange Revolving
Fund by the Association pursuant to paragraph (b)
of this Section; and (B) such amounts as shall be
deposited by the Borrower in the Foreign-exchange
Revolving Fund in accordance with the provisions of
paragraph (d) of this Section; and
(ii) amounts deposited in the Foreign-exchange Revolving
Fund pursuant to sub-paragraph (i) of paragraph (a)
of this Section shall be used only to make payments
for expenditures eligible for withdrawal from the
Credit Account under Categories (1) and (2) (b) of
the table set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement.


﻿-4-
(b) Without limitation on the provisions of paragraph (a) of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement, the Association shall, promptly
after the Effective Date, withdraw from the Credit Account and
deposit in the Foreign-exchange Revolving Fund an initial amount
in foreign currency not exceeding $100,000 equivalent and shall
thereafter, at the request of ONADER, further withdraw from the
Credit Account and deposit in the Foreign-exchange Revolving Fund
such amounts as shall be required to reimburse ONADER for payments
made out of the Foreign-exchange Revolving Fund for expenditures
for the Project eligible for financing under the Development
Credit Agreement under Categories (1) and (2) (b) of the table set
forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, but only to
the extent that the amount of any such deposit, together with any
amount on deposit in the Foreign-exchange Revolving Fund as of the
date of such request, shall not exceed in the aggregate the
equivalent of $100,000.
(c) Notwithstanding the foregoing, no further deposit shall
be made to the Foreign-exchange Revolving Fund and no other
withdrawal shall be made from the Credit Account when the total
amount theretofore withdrawn from the Credit Account pursuant to
paragraphs (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and paragraph (b)
of this Section, together with the amount of any special commit-
ment entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of
the General Conditions; shall have reached in the aggregate the
equivalent of $3,000,000.
(d) If the Association shall have determined that payments
have been made by ONADER out of the Foreign-exchange Revolving
Fund for expenditures not eligible for withdrawal from the Credit
Account, the Borrower shall, upon notice from the Association,
deposit in the Foreign-exchange Revolving Fund an amount equal to
the amount of such payments.
Section 2.04. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurements to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit, shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
Section 2.05. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1985
or such later date as the Association shall establish.        The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
44             ,,.- ..              . . .   . . . .  .,-,  64"


﻿-5-
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each March 15
and September 15 commencing March 15, 1990 and ending Septem-
ber 15, 2029, each installment to and including the installment
payable on September 15, 1999, to be one-half of one per cent
(1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment there-
after to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal
amount.
Section 2.09. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project
through ONADER and ORG of its MinistAre de l'Agriculture, Eaux
et For^ts et FAPA with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial and agri-
cultural practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the
purpose.
(b) The Borrower shall cause each of ONADER and ORG to be
managed at all times by a qualified and experienced Directeur
Gfnfral and Directeur, respectively, and to fill the positions
set forth in Annex B to Schedule 2 to this Agreement at all times
with qualified and experienced personnel.
(c) In establishing ONADER the Borrower shall provide
it with an organizational status and structure designed to:
(i) ensure ONADER's ability to exercise control over its day-to-
day operations and its resources under the sole supervision of
the Ministre de l'Agriculture, Eaux et For6ts et FAPA, and to
have direct access to said Minister at all times; and (ii) prevent
any interference by the Borrower's other departments and agencies
with the performance of ONADER's obligations under the Project.


﻿-6 -
(d) Without limitation or restriction upon the generality
of the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section with regard to
the provision of funds, the Borrower shall open and maintain a
Syli Revolving Fund in BNDA in the name of ONADER and shall cause
BNDA to credit and debit for the account of ONADER the Syli
Revolving Fund in accordance with the following provisions:
(i) there shall be credited to the Syli Revolving Fund:
(A) an amount of Syli 5,000,000 which shall be
deposited by the Borrower in the Syli Revolving
Fund prior to the Effective Date; and (B) such
amounts as shall from time to time be deposited in
the Syli Revolving Fund by the Borrower pursuant
to paragraph (e) of this Section; and
(ii) amounts deposited in the Syli Revolving Fund
pursuant to sub-paragraph (i) of paragraph (d) of
this Section shall be used only to make payments to
meet local expenditures made or to be made in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project.
(e) The Borrower shall, not later than 30 days prior to each
quarter, deposit in the Syli Revolving Fund such amounts as shall
correspond to ONADER's requirements under the Project for the
following quarter as notified to the Borrower by ONADER.
Section 3.02. (a) In order to assist the Borrower in the
carrying out of the Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants
whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment, including their terms of reference, shall be satis-
factory to the Borrower and the Association.
(b) In order to proy1ide technical assistance to the Bor-
rower, the Borrower shall employ such experts as are set forth in
Annex A to Schedule 2 to this Agreement, whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment, including their
terms of reference, shall be satisfactory to the Borrower and the
Association.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall cause ONADER to: (i)
take all measures to choose sites of the research stations
included in Part B (a) of the Project satisfactory to the Asso-
ciation not later than November 30, 1979; (ii) undertake, prior to
the start of the applied rice research program included as Part B


﻿- 7
f
-7-
(a) of the Project, a detailed review of the requirements of each
of the included research stations, prepare an implementation
schedule for such program including the field trials to be con-
ducted thereunder, and furnish, not later than June 30, 1980 or
such later date as the Association shall agree, such schedule to
the Association for its approval; and (iii) produce, for each year
during the execution of the Project, a report in respect of the
results and conclusions of the previous year's research and field
trials.
(b) The Borrower shall cause ONADER to: (i) conduct, prior
to the start of the project preparation study included as Part C
of the Project, a reconnaissance survey; and (ii) furnish to the
Association for its approval a report comprising a description of
the potential for agricultural development, a recommendation
of the area to be studied, detailed terms of reference for such
study including time estimates and personnel and equipment
requirements.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall: (i) promptly provide the
consultants carrying out the study of agricultural prices and
incentives, included as Part E of the Project, with all the
information and assistance needed by such consultants; (ii)
establish, not later than December 31, 1979, an Inter-Ministerial
Committee to ensure appropriate liaison with such consultants;
(iii) review and discuss regularly, but at least every six months
with the Association the interim findings of such study and
take into account the recommendations made by the Association as a
result of such reviews and discussions; and (iv) review and
discuss the conclusions of such study with the Association not
later than March 31, 1982 or such later date as the Association
shall agree.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall furnish to the Association
for its approval the terms of reference for the preparation of a
second-phase project in the pilot project area, included as Part F
(ix) of the Project, prior to the employment of any consultant
required theref or.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall take all appropriate action
to provide incentives to farmers in the area of the pilot project
included as Part F of the Project, to ensure their cooperation in
the carrying out of such pilot project.


﻿-8-
Section 3.07. (a) The Borrower shall cause ORG to organize
the provision of credit to farmers in the area of the pilot
project in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Associa-
tion.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association for its
approval, not later than June 30, 1980 or such later date as may
be agreed to by the Association, a model credit contract between
farmers, the ORG credit service and BNDA.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall, not later than June 30,
1980 or such later date as the Association shall agree, furnish
to the Association for its approval a proposed training program
for the training center at Gueckedou.
Section 3.09. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by
the Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall cause all goods and services financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.10. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and work and procurement schedules for
the Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project
(including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, and to disclose t\eir use in the Project; (ii) shall
enable the Association's accredited representatives to visit the
facilities and construction sites included in the Project and to
examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and
any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the
Association at regular intervals all such information as the


﻿9-
Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project, its
cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it,
the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and
services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the
Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial
operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to
be derived from it, the performance by the Borrower and the
Association of their respective obligations under the Development
Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit.
Section 3.11. (a) The Borrower shall take or cause to be
taken all such action as shall - be necessary to acquire as and
when needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall
be required for carrying out the Project and shall furnish to
the Association, promptly after such acquisition, evidence satis-
factory to the Association that such land and rights in respect of
land are available for purposes related to the Project.
(b) The Borrower shall take all such action as shall be
necessary to provide farmers presently cultivating swamplands
chosen for improvement under the Project with an option to con-
tinue cultivation of their parcels after the completion of the
improvements.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to
be maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices the
operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project,
of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b) The Borrower shall establish and mainiain or cause
to be established and maintained within ONADER and ORG, separate
accounts in their respective records, to be used exclusively for


﻿Ilo o-g
- 10 -
the Project, and shall register in such accounts all receipts and
payments for or in connection with the Project in accordance with
sound accounting principles consistently applied.
Section 4.02.    The Borrower shall: (i) have the accounts
referred to in Section 4.01 (a) and (b) of this Agreement, and
the Foreign-exchange Revolving Fund for each fiscal year audited,
in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any
case not later than three months after the end of each such year,
a certified copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have
reasonably requested, including, without limitation to the fore-
going, a separate opinion of said auditors as to whether payments
made by BGCE out of the Foreign-exchange Revolving Fund were so
made on account of expenditures eligible for withdrawal from the
Credit Account; and (iii) furnish to the Association such other
information concerning said accountr6, records and expenditures and
the audit thereof as the Association shall from time to time
reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof, namely, that:
(i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of tl is Section:
(A) The right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of any grant or loan made to the
Borrower for the financing of the Project
shall have been suspended, cancelled or
terminated in whole or in part,   pursuant to
the terms of the agreement providing therefor,
or
(B) any such loan shall have become due and
payable prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
(ii) Subparagraph (i) of this Section shall not apply
if: (A) such suspension, cancellation, termination
or prematuring is not caused by the failure of the
Al 01 -                                                  6


﻿Borrower to perform any of its obligations under
such agreement, and (B) adequate funds for the
Project are available to the Borrower from other
sources on terms and conditions consistent with the
obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions, the following additional event is specified
pursuant to paragraph (d) thereof, namely, that the event speci-
fied in sub-paragraph (i) (B) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement
shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of .Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) the ADF Loan Agreement has been duly signed and con-
ditions precedent to initial disbursement, if any, under said.
agreement, save for the effectiveness of this Agreement, have been
fulfilled;
(b) the Directeur Gfnfral of ONADER and Directeur of ORG
have been appointed pursuant to the provisions of Section 3.01 (b)
of this Agreement;
(c) the contract for experts' services has been entered
into in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 (b) of this
Agreement; and
(d) the initial payment into the Syli Revolving Fund
referred to in Section 3.01 (d) of this Agreement has been made
by the Borrower.
Section 6.02. The date                            is hereby
specified for the purposes o Section 12 04 of the General Condi-
tions.
Section 6.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Article
IV of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on
which this Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on
a date twenty years after the date of this Agreement, whichever
shall be the earlier.


﻿- 12 -
ARTICLE VII
Raprenentativeo of the Borrover; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Ministre de lAgriculture, Eaux et Forêts
et F_AP of the Borrover is designated as representative of - the
Borrower for the purposes of Section,,11.03 of the General Condi-
tions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the puposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Hinistare de 1'Agriculture,
Eaux et Forgts et FAPA
B.P. 576
Conakry
Guinea
Cable address:                      Telex:
MIDORAL                             638
Conakry
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 B Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INDEVAS                             440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused


﻿- 13 -
this Agreement to be signied Iii their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above Étéitten.
REVOLUTIONARY PEOPLE'S R PLIC OF GUINEA
By
uthorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPHENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
Western Africa
i.1 -


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 1
Vithdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table belov sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures fot items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       Expedtures
Category               Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
(1) Equipment, vehicles,        4,400,000        100% of foreign
spare parts, fur-                           expenditures
nishings and sea-
sonal inputs ex-
cluding fertilizer
(2) (a) Technical Assis-          800,000        -33% of foreign
tance Contract                         expenditures
(b) Fellowships            1,600,000        100% of foreign
and other                              expenditures
consultants'
services
(3) Fuel and lubricants         1,700,000        50%
(4) Refunding of the              300,000        100%
Advance
5) Unallocated                 1,600,000
TOTAL       10,400,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "foreign expendi-
tures" means ,expenditures in the currency of any country other
than the Borrover and for goods or services supplied from the
territory of any country other than the Borrower.


﻿151
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to
that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
Aforementioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for:
(a) expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement;
and
(b) expenditures in respect of Category (2) on account of
the preparation study included as Part C of the Project until
the Association has given its approval: (i) pursuant to Section
3.03 (b) of this Agreement; and (ii) of the consultants selected
by the Borrower for the execution of such study.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
or the disbursement percentages, set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated
that the amount of (the Credit then allocated to any Category
will be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all
expenditures in that Category, the Association may, by notice to
the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent
required to meet the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit
which are then allocated to another Category and which in the
opinion of the Association are not needed to meet other expendi-
tures; and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the
estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals
under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder
shall have been made.
6.   If the 'Association shall have reasonably determined that
the procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
Idj


﻿-16-
of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way
restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the
Association under ý the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to
the Borrower, tantel such amount of the Credit as, in the Associa-
tion's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such expendi-
tures which would otherwise have been eli ible for financing out
of the proceeds of the Credit.
ww


﻿- 17
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to help the Borrower to
develop Guinea's rice sector through the establishment of mea-
sures, including the creation of a specialized unit in the Bor-
rower's administration, designed to overcome institutional and
technical constraints presently impeding an increase in Guinea's
rice production, and the execution of a pilot rice project in
Guinea's high-potential Forest Region to provide the basis and
experience for future development projects. The Project consists
of the following parts:
Part A:   Establishment of Opdration Nationale pour le Deloppe-
ment de la Riziculture - ONADER within the Borrower's
Ministère de l'Agriculture, Eaux et Forfts et FAPA
to:                                                                         L
(i) help plan rice development programs and supervise
their execution; and
(ii) supervise Parts B to E of the Project and provide
overall guidance and services to ORG in the execu-
tion of Part F of the Project.
Part B:
(a) An applied rice research program at the research
stations in the Niger valley in upper Guinea and in the
Mangrove zone in Maritime Guinea to test and demonstrate
suitable rice varieties and fertilizers, pest control
methods and crop husbandry techniques.
(b) An applied rice research program at a research station
In the Gaoual-Koundara area to test and demonstrate
suitable rice varieties and fertilizers, pest control
methods and crop husbarldry techniques, to be implemented
after the applied research program at the research
stations included in Part B (a) has been implemented and
has provided results satisfactory to the Association.
Part C:   A preparation study for an agricultural development
project in the Niger-Tinkisso Valley of Upper Guinea.


﻿71
- 18 -
Part D:  A fellowship program for the training of Guinean
cadres.
Part E:  A study of the Borrower's pricing and incentives system
for Guinea's main agricultural products to provide
information and guidance for the setting of future
producer and consumer prices for such products.
Part F:  A pilot rice project at Gueckedou under the -management
of Opfration Riz Gueckedou - ORG, an agency of ONADER
to be established under the Project, consisting of:
(i) a mechanized seed multiplication farm and pro-
cessing plant foi2 the production of improved rice
seed to be distributed to farmers;
(ii) applied research to test and demonstrate rice
varieties and agronomic improvements;
(iii) low cost irrigation works on 700 ha of selected
swamplands to the benefit of resident farmers and
on 360 ha of rainfed upland for seed production by
ORG;
(iv) extension, training and credit services for the
provision of farm inputs and agronomic advice
to family farms and farmer cooperatives in the area
of the pilot project;
(v) construction of offices, a workshop and staff
housing for the pilot project;
(vi) upgrading to all weather surface of 63 km of feeder
roads;
(vii) purchase, and subsequent maintenance, of five small
rice hullers to be kept in centralized locations;
(viii) monitoring and evaluation of the pilot project;
and
(ix) preparation of a possible second-phase project
in the pilot project area.


﻿-19-
The pilot project will emphasize simple measures to
augment the productivity of rainfed and swampland rice
cultivated by smallholders, and rainfed rice cultivated by
farmer cooperatives. Agronomic improvements will include the
use of fertilizers, improved seed and possibly pesticides,
transplanting in the swamplands and line seeding in the
uplands, and improved cultivation. About half the partici-
pating families will also have their swamplands improved. The
farmer cooperatives will receive seed drills and trailers and
spare parts for existing machinery and training in proper
machinery utilization and maintenance. A total of about 2,700
farming families cultivating some 4,000 ha of rainfed rice
and 1,300 ha of swamp rice and the farmer cooperatives, to
which such families also belong, cultivating an additional
1,000 ha of rainfed rice, will benefit from the pilot
project.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1984.


﻿20
- 20 -
ANNEX A TO SCHEDULE 2
Technical Assistance and Fellowships
for ONADER and ORG
I.   Technical Assistance
A.   For ONADER
Han-months
1.   Agricultural Economist                66
2.   Agronomist                            60
3.   Rural Engineer                        60
B.   For ORG
1.   Seed Multiplication Agronomist        48
2.   Development Agronomist                36
3.   Rural Engineer                        41
4.   Mechanic - Workshop Chief             36
TOTAL             347
II. Fellowships
About 144 man-months of medium-term fellowships (averaging
one year in duration) and about 115 man-months of short-term
fellowships for about 50 courses or secondments (ranging from one
to six months in duration) for the purpose of providing training
abroad to the Project's senior and middle-level staff through
courses at, or secondments to, specialized institutes or universi-
ties or through field visits to projects involving work relevant
to such staff.


﻿-21-
-NNEX 8 TO SCHEDULE 2
Staff ing of ONADER and ORG
A.   ONADER
(a) Headguarters:
Directeur GGnéral
2.   Directeur Adjoint
3.   Agricultural Economist
4.   Agronomist
5.   Rural Egineer
6.   Economist/Statistician
7.   Administration Officer
8.   Accountant
(b) Research Stations:
1.   Agronomist for upper Guinea
2.   Agronomist for the Mangrove zone
3.   Agronomfst for the Gaoual - Koundara zone
B.   ORG
1.   Directeur
2.   Directeur Adjoint
3.   Agronomist (Seed Multiplication)
4.   Agronomist (Applied Research)
5.   Agronomist (Extension Service)
6.   Rural Engineer
7.   Chief Surveyor (Works Department)
8.   Workshop Mechanic
9.   Economist (Evaluation Unit)
10.   Accountant (Finance and Administration Department)
11.   Accountant (Credit Officer)


﻿-22-
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement under
World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in March
1977 (hereinAfter called the Guidelines), on the basis of intArna-
tional competitive bidding as described in Part A of the Guide-
lines.
2.   For goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of paragraph
1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and forward to
the Asso-iation as soon as possible, and in any event not later
than 60 daye prior to the date of availability to the public of
the first tender or prequalification documents relating thereto,
as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such form and
detail and coitaining such information as the Association shall
reasonably request; the Association will arrange for the publica-
tion of such notice in order to provide timely notification
to prospective) bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods
in question. Mie Borrower shall provide the necessary information
to update such notice annually so long as any goods remain to be
procured on the basis of international competitive bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods,
or the ex-factory price for domestically manufactured goods;
(ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods,
and sales and similar taxes on domestically supplied goods, shall
be excluded; and (iii) the cost to the Borrower of ,inland freight
and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to
the place of their use or installation shall be included.
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
Guinea may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the following provisions:


﻿- 23 -
1. All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted,
the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid
for such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Guinea if the bidder shall-have established to the
satisfaction of the Borrower and the Association
that the manufacturing cost of such goods includes
a value added in Guinea equal to at least 20% of
the ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in Guinea.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared'
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes
on goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest
evaluated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall
then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this
comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall
be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph
3 above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A'bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
$shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group
C which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.


﻿-24-
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for equipment, vehicles and materials estimated
to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or less may be awarded through
locally advertised competitive bidding pursuant to procedures
acceptable to the Association or through negotiated purchase after
solicitation of quotations from suppliers or manufacturers,
provided, however, that the aggregate amount of all contracts to
be so awarded shall not exceed in the aggregate the equivalent of
$700, 000.
2.   Fuel and lubricants may be purchased from the Brrower's
specialized' importing agencies (Office National des H)Arocar-
bures), provided, however, that the aggregate amount of  all
contracts to be,SO awarded shall not exceed the equivalett of
$4,9500,9000.0
3.   Minor materials and equipment may be purchased from the
Borrover's specialized importing agencies, provided, however,
that the aggregate amount of all contracts to be so awarded shall
not exceed the equivalent of $700,000.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for vehicles, equipment and
materials estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations
to bid and the specifications and other bidding documents,
together with a description of the advertising procedures to be
followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the
said documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the  bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in
sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the eval-
uation and comparison of the bids received together with the


﻿25 -
recommendations for award and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request. The Asspciation shall, if it
determines that the intended award would be inconsistent with the
Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for sieh determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association' s concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalificatio invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to
the submission to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
after its execution and prior to -the submission to the Association
of the firs' application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such
contract, together with the analysis of the respective bids,
recommendations for award and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it
determines that the award of the contract was not consistent with
the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver
of the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an exten-
sion of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 25% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Association of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Association, if it
determines that the proposi would be inconsistent with the
provisions of this Agreement,-hall promptly inform the Borrower
and state the reasons for its determination.


﻿=11
lNTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
hereby certify that the foregoing is a tr,c
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witress whereof I have signed this Certifi-
tate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the           dy
FOR SECRETARY
.l.~


