Document of
The World Bank                            F
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3507-CY
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON
PROPOSED LOANS
IN AMOUNTS EQUIVALENT TO US$3.6 AND US$6.6 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF CYPRUS
AND TO THE
ELECTRICITY AUTHORITY OF CYPRUS
WITH THE
GUARANTEE OF THE REPUBLIC OF CYPRUS
FOR AN
ENERGY PLANNING AND CONSERVATION PROJECT
APRIL 26, 1983
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS-'
At             Currency Unit      =     Cypriot Pound (C£)
C£ 1.00                  US$2.10
US$1.00           =      C£ 0.48
ABBREVIATIONS
AREC     -   Applied Renewable Energy Center
CDB      -   Cyprus Development Bank
EAC      -   Electricity Authority of Cyprus
EAU      -   Energy Advisory Unit
HTI      -   Higher Technical Institute
KIBTEK   -   Turkish Cypriot Electricity Authority
MCI      -   Ministry of Commerce and Industry
Government of Cyprus F'iscal Year
January 1 - December 31
1/ As of November 1982
,                                                                     .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF CYPRUS
ENERGY PLANNING AND CONSERVATION PROJECT
Loans and Project Summary
Borrowers;       Republic of Cyprus and the Electricity Authority of Cyprus
(EAC).
Guarantor.       Republic of Cyprus for the Loan to EAU.
Amounts:         US$3.6 million and US$6.6 million for the loans to the
Republic of Cyprus and to EAC respectively.
Terms;           Fifteen years, including three years grace, at the standard
variable interest rate.
Project
Description:  (i)  Tbe project aims to assist Cyprus to aevelop a
comprehensive energy development and conservation program,
including the introduction of appropriate energy policies, and
attain its longer term objective of reducing its virtually
total depenaence on imported fuel for its energy needs.
Towards this end, institution-building measures includea in
the project would help to establish the aaministrative,
policy-making, planning and technological capacity required to
implement a balanced energy program.  The project also
includes pilot/demonstration schemes involving renewable
energy applications and introduction of energy conservation
measures. (ii) The project would be financed through two
separate loans, one to the Republic of Lyprus tor project
components to be implemented by the Ministry of Commerce ana
Industry (MCI), ana another to EAC for the component uncer its
responsibility. The MICI components consist of: (a) energy
planning, including the collection and analysis of existing
energy data, medium-term and long-term energy plans, and
recommendations on energy pricing; (b) assistance to MUI to
strengthen its energy audit capabilities; and (c) a renewable
energy component that woula include the establishment of an
Applied Renewable Energy Center (AREC) to serve as the focal
point for Cyprus' renewable energy program, creation of a
solar and wind resource measurement network, and
pilot/demonstration projects and studies involving solar,
wind, and biogas renewable energy applications. Assistance to
EAC would entail mainly the introduction of energy
conservation measures and installation of appropriate energy
conserving equipment in its facilities. (iii) The immediate
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
benefits of the project include the establishment of the
institutional infrastructure necessary for the systematic
development of the country's renewable resources, savings in
fuel costs due to improved thermal efficiency of the power
stations, and savings from deferred capital investment due to
the postponement of the commissioning of an adaitional o( MW
unit that can be realized as a result of the increased
efficiency of power plant operations. The longer term
benefits include a graaual lessening of Cyprus' dependence on
imported fuel for its energy needs, the improvement of locally
made equipment in the field of renewable energy applications,
and the commercial potential arising from the international
acceptability of the improved locally made equipment. (iv)
Risks of delays in project implementation have been greatly
minimized by the Government's expeditious action in
establishing the project implementation mechanism.
Estimated Project Cost:
Local    Foreign    Total
-------US$ Million-------
MCI Components:
Energy Planning                    0.13        0.27      0.4U
Assistance to MCI 1/               0.68        2.14      2.82
Renewable Energy Pilot/
Demonstration Projects           0.75        1.O    1.75
Physical Contingencies             0.02        0.05      0.07
Price Contingencies                0.08        0.12      0.20
Total MCI Components             1.66        3.58      5.24
EAC Component-.
Equipment                          0.92        5.02      5.94
Consultant's Studies and
Engineering                      0.02        0.19      0.21
Pbysical Contingencies             0.06        0.34      0.40
Price Contingencies                0.25        1.06      1.31
Total EAC Component              1.25        6.61      7.86
Total Project  2/                    2.91       10.19    13.10
1/ Includes establisbment of an Applied Renewable Energy Center and assistance
to strengthen MCI's energy audit capabilities.
2/ Exclusive of taxes and duties from which public projects are exempt.



- iii -
Local    Foreign    Total
-------US$ Million-------
Financing Plan:
MCI Components:
Bank                               -           3.60      3.60
Government Budget                   1.70         -       1.70
Total MCI Components             1.70        3.bU      5.3U
EAC Component:
Bank                                -          6.60      6.60
EAC                                 1.20         -        1.20
Total EAC Component              1.20        6.60      7.bo
Total Project                         2.90       10.20    13.10
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank FY      FY84     FY85      FY86      FY87    FY88
----------------------…(US$ Million)----------------
MCI Components:
Annual                         1.70      1.10      0.6U      0.20      -
Cumulative                     1.70      2.80      3.40      3.60      -
EAC Component:
Annual                         0.80      2.80      2.30      0.50    0.20
Cumulative                     0.80      3.60      5.90      6.40    6.60
Economic Rate of Return:  22 percent (EAC Component).!/
Appraisal Report: Report No. 4360-CY, dated April 20, 1983.
Map:  No. IBRD 16999R, April 1983 - Energy Planning and Conservation Project.
1/ Not quantifiable for the M1CI Components.



I                                                                                                                             &



REPORT AND RECOMMEiiDATILON OF fdE PRdSIDENT
OF THE IBRD TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON PROPOSED LOANS TO THE REPUBLIC OF CYPRUS
AND TO THE ELECTRICITY AUTHORITY OF CYPRUS
FOR AN ENERGY PLANNING AND CONSEkVATION PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Republic of Cyprus for the equivalent of US$3.6 million, and a
proposed loan to the Electricity Authority of Cyprus under guarantee of the
Republic of Cyprus for the equivalent of US$6.6 million to finance the
foreign exchange costs of an Energy Planning and Conservation Project.  The
loans would be repaid over fifteen years including three years of grace at
the standard variable interest rate.
PARE I - IhE ECONOMY!/
2.       The last economic report on Cyprus (No. 4069-CY) was circulated to
the Executive Directors in January 1983. The report's findings are
reflected in this Part. Although Bank economic missions to Cyprus have
visited all economically important areas in that country and had
discussions with the Government as well as the Turkish Cypriot authorities,
it has not been possible to assess fully the economic situation and
prospects of the whole island, given the extremely limited economic data
base for northern Cyprus, which is under Turkish Cypriot control. Hence
the analysis provided in this and other Parts of this Report relates only
to the Government-controlled part in southern Cyprus. The Basic Country
Data is provided in Annex 1.
General Background
3.       The Cyprus economy grew at over 7 percent per annum between 1960
and 1973, despite tension between the Greek Cypriot and Turkish Cypriot
communities. The major contributing factors were a competent public
administration, dynamic entrepreneurs, a high rate of investment especially
in the private sector, a rapid increase in agricultural exports
contributing to strong overall balance of payments, and flexible fiscal and
monetary policies that helped to stimulate growth while maintaining
domestic price stability.
4.       The 1974 events brought a sudden, although temporary, end to this
long period of economic growth. Since then, the country has de facto been
divided into two parts by a cease-fire line, with decreasing movement of
people and goods between them. The southern part under the Government's
control accounts for 64 percent of the area of the island and over 77
percent of total population. In the northern part under Turkish Cypriots'
1/ Identical to Part I of the President's Report (P-3530-CY, dated
April 21, 1983) for the Khrysokhou Irrigation Project which was
considered by the Executive Directors on May 12, 1983.



control, 23 percent of the total population live on 36 percenit of the land
area. About one-third of the total population was displaced by the 1974
events, with nearly 180,000 Greek Cypriots moving south, and approximately
45,000 Turkish Cypriots moving north. Most of the displaced population has
now been resettled. UN-sponsored intercommunal talks to fincL a possible
political solution have been held intermittently since 1978, but prospects for
agreeing on a permanent solution remain uncertain.
Recent Developments and Short-term Outlook
5.        With the displacement of population and severance of- sectoral
linkages in mid-1974, the economy was severely depressed; the unemployment
rate jumped to nearly 25 percent of the labor force, and exports and imports
fell by about 55 percent in the second half of 1974.  The drop in export
earnings reflected the loss from the non-exploitation of about one-half of
Cyprus' cultivated land area (which produced over 50 percent of its
agricultural exports) and the non-utilization of about two-thirds of the
island's tourist facilities.
6.        Government policy to reactivat:e the economy in the area under its
control proved highly successful. The economy recovered rapidly, with GDP (in
real terms) growing annually by an average of 11.7 percent between 1975 and
1981. Since 1979, the growth rate has slowed down and was about 2.1 percent
in 1981, as the economy reached full capacity ana world receission adversely
affected some export markets. In parallel, unemployment decreased from over
16 percent in 1975 to about 2 percent Ln 1980 and 3 percent in 1982. Despite
rapid growth, the rate of inflation remained modest. Consumer prices rose
7.5 percent in 1978 and 13 percent in 1980, but slowed to 9 percent in 19b2.
7.        The Government followed an expansionary fiscal policy to reactivate
the economy after 1974. This policy continued, however, even after near-full
employment was reached in 1978. Overall budgetary deficits, averaging about
7.3 percent of GDP during 1979-82, have been financed mainly by grants and
external borrowing, and by some borrowing from the Central bank. The
Government believes that it may be able to slow down expenditures, despite the
need to continue some refugee assistance and to complete ongoing investment
projects. However, its attempts to reduce subsidies for grain and vine
products are meeting strong resistance in Parliament. Similarly, its proposal
to permit an increase in interest rates above the 9 percent ceiling has not
yet been accepted by Parliament. In the circumstances, the Government has
attempted to increase revenues by changing the tax system and adopting other
fiscal measures to suit the changed economic conditions; this has already
significantly improved the revenue-GDP ratio, from about 20 percent in 1979 to
over 23 percent in 1982.
8.        In an effort to restrain domestic price increases, the Central bank
initially took limited measures to restrict new loans to importers and
distributors and reduce loans by hire-purcbase finance companies. But since
late 1979, more comprehensive measures have been taken to reduce bank
liquidity and restrain credit expansion. The effectiveness of monetary
policy, however, remains hampered by the ceiling set on interest rates.



9.       The changes in the tax system and fiscal measures and the restraints
put on credit expansion have had a deflationary impact on the economy.
Consumer and investment demands have softened, resulting in a continuous
decline in the inflation rate since 1981. This was accompanied by a small
rise in unemployment, from 2 percent in 1980 to about 3 percent in 1982, as
already mentioned.
10.      Stimulated by expanding local demanc  for consumer and investment
goods, imports increased rapidly until early 1980. The increases in the
current account balance of payments deficit, however, were adequately covered
by the rapidly rising external capital inflows. During 1981-82, as overall
growth decelerated, import growth slowed aown while exports, especially of
services, continued to grow at a relatively higher rate, resulting in an
improvement in the balance of payments. Foreign exchange reserves increased,
to five months of imports at the end of 1982. Recent trends show growth of
exports as well as of revenue from tourism can be expected to continue.  As a
result, the short-term outlook for balance of payments is expected to remain
healthy.
II.      The recent favorable developments, however, have been accompanied by
two trends that could have serious adverse effects in the longer term: the
continued negative public savings and declining private investment in
manufacturing since 1979. As discussed in para. 7, the negative public
savings have been the result of the post-1974 expansionary programs to
reactivate the economy; but the budget remained expansionary even after the
economy reached a high level of employment.  The decline in manufacturing
investment resulted from several factors, including rapidly rising labor
costs, inadequate institutions to promote investment in new products requiring
modern technologies and organization, and relatively lower profitability in
manufacturing compared to that in tourism and real estate. Recently, however,
labor cost increases have moderated, and a declining trend is projected.
Medium-Term Prospects
12.      The Government has launched the Fourth Emergency Economic Action Plan
(1982-1986) for the area under its control. The Plan calls for a GDP growth
rate of about 4.0 percent per year, based on a continuing shift in development
strategy toward medium-scale, higber technology, relatively more
capital-intensive investments; consolidation of small tactories into larger
units, to realize economies of scale; and export and tourism as the major
engines of growth. In addition, increased emphasis is put on the promotion of
international services, e.g. off-shore banking, consultancy and professional
services, to cater to Middle Eastern and North African countries.
13.      The Fourth Plan strategy of promoting investment in and export of
higher quality products and services is appropriate. The Plan's target of a 4
percent GDP growth is within the country's potential and the investment
program is sound. Achievement of the target, however, depends on adequate
policies to generate some public savings and to reverse the declining trend in
private manufacturing investment.



- 4 --
14.      Considerable efforts have been made to increase goveirnment revenues,
which have risen significantly. To maintain this momentum, government actions
are needed to (i) close tax loopholes, (ii) strengthen tax administration and
auditing procedure, (iii) raise penalties for tax evasion, and (iv) introduce
a system of value-added taxation. These ought to be complemented by a
slow-down in the growth of current expenditures, including civil servants'
salaries and subsidies for grain production and imported animal reed. The
projected declining trend in wage increases is a favorable factor for private
manufacturing investment. To promote such investment Cyprus needs also to:
systematically gather and disseminate technological information; establish
contacts with foreign firms and promote joint ventures;  explore the
availability of licenses, technical know-how agreements and marketing
arrangements; arrange projects for finance and implementation; provide
extension services; and take measures to'slow down construction of new
hotels, except for the very top class.
15.      Cyprus will continue to need an increasing inflow of foreign capital
to help finance the necessary restructuring of its economy. Access to
long-term concessionary bilateral and multilateral support is expected to
become increasingly limited. Consequently, despite some continuing Greek,
German, UK and Council of Europe assistance, most future public external
borrowing to cover the projected current account deficits will have to come
from commercial sources, either in the form of export or suppliers' credit, or
as commercial bank loans. Considering the continuing political uncertainties,
Cyprus' recent experience in mobilizing external resources has been
encouraging. It successfully raised Eurodollar borrowings in late 1977 of $30
million, followed by loans of $40 million in July 1978, $10 million in
November 1978, $48 million in July 1980, $85 million in September 1981 and $70
million in July 1982. The country has also begun to attract significant
export and suppliers' credits. These forms of external borrowing are
indicative of the probable future trend.
16.      The Bank's efforts to date have been directed towards encouraging
Cyprus not only to diversify its sources of official aid, but also to use Bank
projects as catalysts to attract other external support, including cofinancing
with commercial banks. Commercial bank cofinancing was arranged in 1980 in
connection with the Third Cyprus Development Bank Project (Loan 1744-CY);
substantial suppliers' credit and a Euro-currency loan for the Power
Transmission and Distribution Project (Loan 1873-CY) in 1980; a loan from the
Kuwait Fund for the Third Highway Project (Loan Z128-CY) in 1982; and a loan
from the European Investment Bank for the Vasilikos-Pendaskinos Project (Loan
1658-CY) in 1982.
17.      Cyprus' external debt has so far remained low, because of the past
policy of financing development from internal resources and the availability
of substantial levels of foreign grant aid from Greece and the United Nations
High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR), mainly for refugee assistance (ranging
from $36 to $59 million per year since 1974). Total long-term public debt
outstanding and disbursed was $497.3 million as of December 31, 1981. Public
debt service was about 7.6 percent of goods and non-factor services in 1981.
However, given the increasing reliance on commercial financing, debt service
is projected to increase to about 12 percent of exports of goods and



-5-
non-factor services by 1985. The Bank's share of debt outstanding and
disbursed declined from 51 percent in 1975 to about 12 percent at the ena of
1981, while its share in debt service declined from 47 percent in 1975 to
about 15 percent in 1981.  Thus the Bank's exposure, once quite high, has now
declined to a more normal level and is expected to continue to decline
further. Given this background and the Government's record of economic
management, the country continues to be creditworthy for Bank lending.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN CYPRUSI'
18.      Bank lending to Cyprus began in 1963.  As of March 31, 1983, nineteen
loans totalling $162.2 million (net of cancellations) were made; of this,
about $123.4 million was held by the Bank. The main areas of concentration
have been infrastructure (power, sewerage, highways and ports), industry
through the Cyprus Development Bank, agriculture and water resource
development. Details of Bank loans to Cyprus as of March 31, 1983 are given
in Annex II.
19.      The events of 1974 had a substantial impact on some of the ongoing
Bank-financed projects, as well as on planned operations. In particular, the
execution of the following projects was affected;  (i) the sewerage project in
Famagusta, which lay entirely in the area controlled by the Turkish Cypriots;
and (ii) the construction of the Nicosia-Morphou highway, the alignment of
which coincided with the cease-fire line. Even though the Famagusta Sewerage
Project was 90 percent complete when construction was interrupted, it could
not be commissioned in the absence of a political settlement, and the
undisbursed balance of the loan was cancelled. In the case of the
Nicosia-Morphou highway, construction of which was suspended, and remains so,
after only one month of work, the unutilized balance of about $3.6 million was
transferred to the Second Highway Project. The Nicosia Sewerage Project,
which straddled the Greek Cypriot and Turkish Cypriot areas of Nicosia, was
also incomplete. However, as a result of the initiative of the UNDP and the
Bank, Greek Cypriot and Turkish Cypriot cooperation on this matter was
engendered and a formal agreement to complete the project reached in September
1978; thereafter, based on those arrangements, ana continuing cooperation
displayed by both sides in their implementation, the project has been
completed in 1980 and is now benefiting both communities. As regards planned
operations, a number of projects under study, or contemplated, before 1974,
which were intended to benefit directly both communities, could not be pursued
because of the de facto division of the island. The Bank, together with UNDP,
will continue to explore areas where cooperation appears possible, although
substantial progress may have to await a political settlement.
1/ Substantially the same as Part II of the President's Report (P-353U-UY,
dated April 21, 1983) for the Khrysokhou Irrigation Project which was
considered by the Executive Directors on May 12, 1983.



20.      Disbursement performance with regard to Bank operations in Cyprus is
generally satisfactory and compares favorably with experience elsewhere.  The
only loans on which disbursements had been significantly slower than
anticipated relate to the Second Highway Project (Loan 1344-GY) and the
Vasilikos-Pendaskinos Water Resources Development Project (Loan 1658-CY).
This is primarily related to difficulties faced by the contractor in the
former case, and to delays in the appointment of consultants in the latter
case. The problems related to the Second Highway Maintenance Project have
been resolved and implementation is proceeding satisfactorily. In the case of
the Vasilikos-Pendaskinos Project, dam construction work will start shortly
and project implementation is expected to proceed smoothly thereafter.
21.      The Bank continues to support activities leading to higher
productivity and exports and providing essential infrastructure justifiable in
the context of the whole island. Within this overall context, Bank lending
has made a substantial contribution towards assisting Cyprus to recover from
the 1974 events, especially in acting as a catalyst to mobilize external
sources of long-term financing. Tihe Government recognizes that given the
relatively bigh per capita income in Cyprus, Bank lending has continued so far
because of the special circumstances prevailing in the country, and can be
expected to taper off gradually in the medium-term. In the circumstances,
projects being developed during this period include those representing
innovation for the country, such as the presently proposed energy planning and
conservation project and a project for integrating and transferring scarce
water resources between different basins in the country. Meanwhile,
discussions with the Government on Cyprus' graduation from Bank lending bave
been initiated, and a graduation paper is being prepared.
22.      IFC's first investment in Cyprus was in a cement company in 1972.
The company has since become a leader in the country's successful export
drive. IFC has also invested in an asbestos cement pipe plant, a tourist
hotel, and in the Cyprus Investment and Securities Corporation, and is
currently exploring opportunities for further investment in the island. As of
March 31, 1983, gross commitments tota'lled $6.0 million, of which $2.9 million
are still held by IFC. Details of IFC investments in Cyprus are given in
Annex II.
PART III - THE ENERGY SECTOR
Energy Resources and Policy
23.      Cyprus has no known commercially exploitable conventional energy
resources. It, therefore, continues to be heavily dependent for its energy
requirements upon imported energy, primarily crude oil and petroleum products,
which constituted about 20 percent of total imports in 1980. At the same
time, the necessary expansion of power output and facilities will continue to
be based on thermal generation for the foreseeable future in the absence of
feasible alternatives. Recognizing the continuing burden to the country's
financial resources from this dependency on imported fuel and the large
investment required to meet electricity demand, Government policy has



addressed itself towards:  (i)  conservation of energy in all sectors of the
economy; (ii) the development of indigenous energy resources; and (iii) the
generation, transmission and distribution of electricity as efficiently as
possible including conservation and management of local requirements to reduce
plant investment to meet demand.
24.      The Tbird Emergency Economic Action Plan (1979-81) incorporated the
Government's first steps in dealing in a systematic manner with the energy
sector. Much of the Government's efforts were, however, directed towards
commissioning studies related to the technical aspects of conservation and to
renewable energies, particularly wind and biogas, and in implementing a number
of actions on an ad-hoc basis (information campaign, introduction of speed
limits, introduction of more efficient traffic signal systems) designed to
prevent excessive and unnecessary consumption of oil. The Fourth Emergency
Economic Action Plan (1982-86) builds upon the efforts of the Third Plan and
presents a more comprehensive package of policies and measures for
implementation to manage the demand for energy in the three major energy
consuming sectors; namely, industry, domestic and commercial, and transport.
These measures include incentives to encourage industry to import energy
efficient technology, financial incentives for domestic users of solar energy,
and further improvement of the urban traffic systems.  In 1982, the Government
commissioned a study to review the costs and benefits of diversifying the
energy economy by the substitution of coal for fuel oil. The study was
completed at the end of 1982 and the various Government agencies currently are
reviewing the results of the study.
25.      No priorities, however, have been assigned to the Plan's
comprehensive list of energy resource development and conservation measures.
A major part of the problem lies in the fact that there is as yet no
comprehensive program for the development of alternative energy resources.
The Government therefore has given priority to developing a detailed plan of
action that would provide for a rigorous economic and technical appraisal of
the various renewable technologies including the identification of the
economic costs and benefits, and a comparable cost analysis of conventional
energy alternatives, a review of the most appropriate institutional mechanisms
for implementing a program of renewable energy, including price incentives,
training, and information efforts that would be required to support such a
program, and a detailed energy resource assessment.
26.      Such a plan would focus on the major renewable energy resources of
Cyprus, solar, wind and biogas. Solar energy is utilized currently by
households for water heating, and more than half the single-family dwellings
have installed solar water heaters. Other solar energy applications with
promising potential in Cyprus include crop drying, greenhouse heating and the
use of passive solar design techniques to reduce building heating and cooling
loads. Solar development holds the most promise and is the renewable energy
resource whicb the Government should most actively develop.  Wind could again
be considered for water pumping especially in the coastal areas of the South
where it had been traditionally used until displaced by diesel engines when
fuel prices were very low in more recent years due largely to the low price of
diesel fuel. Biogas could be developed from animal wastes and municipal solid
waste. Potential uses of biogas are for thermal energy and small-scale
electricity generation.



-8--
Sector Organization
27.      Overall Organization.  The main institutions involved in Cyprus'
energy sector are the Ministry of Commer-ce and Industry (M1CI),1 the Cyprus
Petroleum Refinery Limited, the Electricity Authority of Cyprus (EAC), and the
Cyprus Development Bank (CDB). The MCI has general responsibiLlity for the
energy sector. An Energy Advisory Unit (EAU), recently established in MI,
provides conservation services and advice to industry and commerce. The oil
refinery is owned and operated by the Cyprus Petroleum Refinery Limited, of
which the Government owns 35 percent of the shares (but 50 percent of the
voting power) and three oil companies (two multinational and one local) the
balance.  Public electricity supply is the responsibility of EAC.  UDB is
responsible for financing energy conservation schemes in cooperation with
MCI. Major energy policy decisions are made by the Council of Ministers.
28.      The EAU in MCI will continue to act as the focal point for all
non-power energy-related development, including conservation and renewables.
The EAU, established under the Third Plan (1979-1981), is still an embryonic
institution and will require further staff strengthening if it is to meet
adequately its objectives as defined by the Fourth Plan.
29.      EAC Organization and Management.  EAC is an autonomous,
government-owned public utility, governed by a seven-member Board, appointed
by the Council of Ministers for five-year terms. The Chief Executive Officer,
or General Manager, is appointed by the Board. The current General Manager
also holds the post of Chief Engineer and has been associated with EAC for
many years. Overall, EAC is a technically competent and well-managed
authority. It has carried out five previous Bank-assisted projects and is
fully capable of implementing the components of the proposed project that
would be under its responsibility.
30.      At present most of the EAC's operations are managed from a head
office in Nicosia with three area offices handling transmission and
distribution system operations. The power station superintendents in charge
of individual power stations are responsible to the Generation Engineer at the
head office.
31.      At the end of 1982, EAC's pernanent staff totalled 1,548 compared to
1,435 at the end of 1979, and is comprised of 152 professional engineers, 9
professional accounting and administrative staff, 261 accounting,
administrative and clerical staff, 44 meter readers and collectors, 890
skilled technical staff and 192 semi-skilled and unskilled staff.  The present
staffing is adequate and will not increase substantially during 1983-87 due to
placement of surplus power station staff resulting from the gradual retirement
of old generating units in the power station.
The Power Subsector
32.      Background.  Responsibility for public electricity generation and
supply rests with the EAC, whicb was established in 1952 to take the place of
some 16 separate enterprises that had been supplying power on a limited basis
up to that time. Since its establishment, EAC has acquired control of all



public power supplies and serves all major population centers, including all
villages in southern Cyprus by the end of 1979. Although since JuLy 1974 it
has had no access to the transmission and distribution network in northern
Cyprus, EAC has continued to supply power to that p4rt of the country without
receiving any payments, just as the Turkish Cypriots have continued to supply
without any payment a portion of the water consumed in Nicosia. This
demonstrates the continued interlinkage and interdependence between the two
de facto separate parts of the island. However, to maintain and operate power
facilities in the North, the Turkish Cypriots established the Turkish Cypriot
Electricity Authority (KIBTEK) in 1975.
33.       Present Situation of Facilities and Operations.  At the end or 1982,
EAC's generating capacity totalled 324 MW from two therraal power stations
located at Dhekelia ("A" and "B") and one at Moni on the southern coast of the
island. The Dhekelia 'A' power station capacity is 84 MW, comprising two 7-MW
and five 14-MW units commissioned during the period 1952-1963. The
construction of Dhekelia 'B' power station with a capacity of 12U MW ktwo
60-MW units) was completed in December 1982, and the first unit started in
December 1982, wbile the second unit is scheduled for commissioning in
April/May 1983. KIBTEK has installed capacity of about 60-MW in gas turbines
that have been operated occasionally for short periods. At present, however,
this capacity could not be considered as available for system operations. The
other power generation facilities in Cyprus, of about 12 MW, are a mini-hydro
power station, standby sets at industrial plants, hospitals, communication
centers, airfields and a small combined desalination power installation at
Dhekelia UK base.
34.      At the end of 1982, EAC's transmission system comprised 78 circuit
miles of 132-kV lines, 6 circuit miles of 132-kV underground cables, 186
circuit miles of 132-kV lines operated at b6 kV, 376 circuit miles of b6-kV
lines; and total transformer capacities comprised 508 MVA of 132 and 66-kV,
step-down, 420 MVA of interbus and 388 XVA of step-up transforiaer units.  Most
new 132-kV lines constructed during the past decade operate at 66 kV. EAC has
primary distribution at 11 kV consisting of 1,802 miles or overhead circuits,
366 miles of underground cables, and 590 MVA of distribution transformer
capacity. Its medium and low voltage grid extends to about 2,589 miles of
overhead lines and 146 miles of underground cables.
35.      Dispatching and load forecasts for the North are basec on historical
data of electric energy supplied to that area. Under the present conditions
dispatching, load forecasting and maintenance of comrmlon facilities along the
border are very difficult. Restoration of electric service following outages
is often delayed because of problems of access to facilities along the border
between the North and South.
EAC's 1983-1987 Expansion Program
36.       Of the total installed generating capacity of 384 MW by April/May
1983 EAC proposes to retire two 7-MW and three 14-MW units of Dhekelia 'A'
thereby reducing the installed generating capacity to 328 MW. The firm
capacity accordingly would be 268 MW, the estimated peak load during 1983
being 221 MW. Considering the anticipated relief in peak demand from 1985



- Lo -
onward by employing load raanagement techniques, EAC has now proposed the
addition of 60 MW generating capacity in 1988 instead of 1987.  EAC plans to
retire the remaining two units of 14 MW at Dhekelia 'A' power station by
1991. EAC has satisfactorily maintained the plant and facilities, and for the
size of the system, has a satisfactory reliability record.
37.      EAC's Five-Year Expansion Program (1980-1984) is nearing completion
with Bank assistance through the Power Distribution and Transmission Project
(Loan 1873-CY). This program has recently been updated with the assistance of
international consultants and the resulting 1983-1987 EAC Expansion Program
consists of: (i) investment for additional 60 MW generating capacity to be
commissioned in 1988; (ii) the expansion and reinforcement of the existing
transmission system; (iii) the extension and reinforcement of the 1l-kV
medium and low voltage distribution networks in urban and rural areas; and
(iv) the proposed energy conservation measures under the proposed project.
The total cost of the program is estimated to be about $80 million.
Energy Demand and Supply
38.      Petroleum Products.  The petroleum products consumed in Cyprus are
gasoline, aviation fuel, kerosene, gas oil, LPG and light and heavy fuel oil.
Gasoline and aviation fuel are used exclusively in the transport sector;
kerosene in the households sector; gas oil (diesel) in the transport,
industrial, commercial and agricultural sectors; LPG in the household sector
and a small volume in the industrial sector (bricks, mining); and heavy fuel
oil in the industrial (cement) and power sectors. Electricity consumption by
commerce and industry accounted for about 65 percent of total sales in 1982 to
the Government-controlled areas of Cyprus.
39.      Since 1970 growth in the consuimption of energy has been somewhat
erratic due to the political, economic and demographic disruptions following
the 1974 events, as well as the international changes in the price of oil in
the post 1974 period. Since 1975 growth in petroleum product consumption has
averaged 6 percent annually, although this has varied over that time from over
10 percent per annum to below 4 percent per annum. Electricity growth
(including the unbilled portion to the northern area) has averaged 6.3 percent
annually, and total energy consumption has averaged approximately 5.5 percent
per annum.
40.      Growth of energy consumption will depend critically upon the success
of Government policy measures in the fields of conservation and interfuel
substitution. With a vigorous conservation program, especially in the
industrial, electricity and transport sectors, it is estimated that by 1986 an
overall saving of about 9 percent on projected consumption could be made.
41.      Electricity.  The annual growth in consumption of electricity in the
Government-controlled area reduced from 8.4 percent in 1977 to 1.7 percent in
1981 and is estimated to be 3.5 percent in 1982. The lower growth in 1981 was
mainly due to lower sales to industrial consumers on account of the current
recession. The annual growth in sales in the North dropped from 10.5 percent
in 1977 to 3.7 percent in 1981, and is estimated to be 5.1 percent in 1982.
The annual growth in total sales including the unbilled consumption is



- 1I L-
expected to be in the range of 3.4 percent to 3.8 percent for the years 198&
to 1987 and is reasonable considering the growth of the tourist industry in
Cyprus and the trend of consumption in the North.
Energy Pricing
42.      Petroleum Products.  Government policy is to set the average price ot
petroleum products at or marginally above border prices but to cross subsidize
products for various social and economic objectives. The price ot gasoline is
set high enough to subsidize fully all other users of petroleum products. The
domestic price of petroleum products is reviewed annually by lICI in
consultation with the local oil companies to ensure that, within the price
levels indicated by the companies, Government energy pricing policy is adhered
to. Price proposals are then submitted to an ad-hoc Prices Committee prior to
formal approval. The oil companies are responsible for all imports other than
those made by EAC and the cemnent companies whicb, in addition to local
purchases, contract and import directly supplementary quantities of fuel oil.
EAC's local purchases of fuel oil are subsidized.
43.      Electricity Tariffs.  Under the Electricity Development Law of 1952,
EAC is free to determine the level and structure of its tariffs subject to
approval by the Council of Ministers. The guiding principles are that
revenues should be sufficient to meet operating expenses (including
depreciation) ana debt service, and to generate funds for system expansion.
An automatic fuel adjustment clause was made effective in May 1977 to
compensate for the rapid rise in fuel prices. Electricity tariffs (including
fuel adjustments) were increased 270 percent from an average 14.5 mils
(C/kwh) in 1974 to an average of 53.7 mils (CE/kWh) in 1982. The last tariff
increase was implemented in two stages: (i) 9 percent effective November 1,
1980; and (ii) 2 percent effective June 1, 1981. Nevertheless, EAC's revenues
fell short of meeting its debt service even though the average revenue per kWh
(about US$0.11/kWh) is high compared to averages elsewhere, due to tne
uncollected sales to the North.
44.      EAC's most serious operational problem is its inability to secure
payment for consumption of electricity in the North. The unbilled consumption
annually is equivalent to about 20 percent of EAC's revenues. The total
amount of unbilled consumption since 1974, as of December 31, 1982, was
estimated at Cf 39.2 million, the equivalent of $78.4 million. The problem of
unbilled consumption is part of a broader political problem which can only be
resolved within the context of a more general settlement between the Greek and
Turkish Cypriot communities.  Consequently, EAC is dependent on its
electricity tariffs to provide revenues sufficient to cover the deficit of the
unbilled consumption.
Manpower and Training
45.      Since renewables ana conservation are relatively new fielas of
activity in Cyprus, trained manpower is scarce.  ECI is currently financing
training overseas for key staff and this will unaoubtecily improve the level of
competence of EAU. EAC encourages the upgrading of skills of its experienced
staff through courses and in-house training prograrms.  It also arranges



- 12 -
special overseas training; in 1980/81, 16 senior staff members attended 10
international conferences and seminars, and 16 staff members went on
educational visits to power utilities in other countries. Also, about 210 EAC
employees attended seminars, courses, and conferences organized by EAC and
professional institutions in Cyprus. The training program is adequate for
EAC's needs.
Bank Participation in the Power Subsector
46.      The Bank has been closely involved in EAC's development since the
early 1960's, having made five loans totalling $53.8 million to assist in
financing the expansion of Moni power station and expanding the transmission
and distribution facilities. Due to savings in costs, the disbursements
against the first two loans, 335-CY and 494-CY, were less than the loan
amounts. The projects under the first four loans have been satisfactorily
completed and the fifth loan, 1873-CY, is expected to be completed in 1984.
Through these five loans the Bank has promoted and encourageci substantial
institution-building and assisted EAC to develop into a modern and
well-managed utility. The Bank's introduction of international competitive
bidding methods helped EAC to achieve substantial savings.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
47.      The project was first discussed with the Government in 1980.  A
preparation mission visited Cyprus in 1981 and preappraisal wras undertaken in
May 1982. Cost estimates for the project were completed by consultants in
mid-January 1983 and appraisal was completed in February 1982. Negotiations
were held in Washington April 11 to April 18, 1983 with a Delegation headed by
Mr. Michael Erotokritos, Director General of the Ministry of Commerce and
Industry (MCI) and including representatives of the Ministry of Finance ana
the Electricity Authority of Cyprus. A staff appraisal report entitled
"Cyprus - Energy Planning and Conservation Project" (No. 4360-CY), dated
April 20, 1983, is being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
The project would be financed by two Bank loans: one to the Electricity
Authority of Cyprus (EAC), witb the guarantee of the Republic of Cyprus, and
another to the Republic of Cyprus for the project components under the direct
responsibility of the Ministry of Commerce and Industry (MCI). A separate
loan to EAC is proposed due to the Government's statutory requirement to
on-lend funds at a maximum rate of 9 percent. The main features of the
project and the loans are mentioned in the Loans and Project Sumrnary and in
Annex III. A map of the project area is attached.
Project Objectives and Description
48.      The project aims to assist Cyprus in developing a comprehensive
energy development and conservation program, including the introduction of
appropriate energy policies, and attaining its longer-term objective of
reducing its virtually total dependence on imported fuel for its energy



- 13 -
needs. Towards this end, institution-building measures included in the
project would help to establish the administrative, policy-making, planning
and technological capacity required to implement a balanced energy program.
Also, through pilot/demonstration schemes involving renewable energy
applications and introduction of energy conservation measures, the project
would assist the Government to move quickly in a number of priority areas of
renewable energy and energy conservation.
49.      The project would consist of components under the responsibility of
MCI and components under the responsibility of EAC.  The MCI components are
intended to strengthen MCI's institutional capabilities in the fields of
energy planning and implementation of conservation and renewable energy
projects in order that appropriate recommendations may be made to the
Government regarding energy supply and conservation options. They consist of
the following:
(a) An Energy Planning component to include the collection and analysis
of existing energy data, a detailed optimum medium-term energy master
plan, an assessment of the economic potential and development
priorities of renewable energy technologies, a long-term energy plan,
and recommendations on energy pricing to be furnished by the
Government to the Bank for its review and comment by December 31,
1984 (Section 3.05 of the Cyprus Loan Agreement).
(b) Strengthening of MCI's existing energy audit capabilities through
training, provision of advisors and instrumentation equipment.
(c) A Renewable Energy component involving the most promising
applications of renewable energy technology in Cyprus from solar,
wind and biogas sources and would comprise mainly the following:
(i) establishment of a national solar and wind resource measuring
network; and development of a system for analyzing the
resource data and making it available to users of renewable
energy;
(ii)  solar energy sub-projects involving:  (a)  the establishment
of test facilities to help improve and certify the quality and
performance of locally rmLanufactured solar hot water systems;
(b) pilot/demonstration projects on the use of solar energy
for crop drying and greenhouses; (c) studies of passive solar
design and other conservation measures to reduce heating and
cooling loads for buildings; and (d)  an assessment of the
potential for solar ponds;
(iii)  the reactivation of up to ten existing windmills, and the
installation of five new, larger ones and evaluation of their
performance;
(iv) a pilot/demonstration biogas sub-project at an existing
swinery; and



- [4 -
(v)  the establishment of an Applied Renewable Energy Center (AREG)
under MCI's jurisdiction to serve as the focal point for the
renewable energy program.
50.      The EAC component involves the implementation of proven load dispatch
and management techniques, and the installation of energy efficient equipment
for the generation plant to improve operational efficiency in the electricity
system.
Project Costs and Financing
51.      The estimated total project cost, including physical and price
contingencies but exclusive of taxes and duties frorn which goods destined for
public projects are exempt, is about $13.1 million (MCI components $5.3
million and the EAC component $7.8 million) of which about $10.2 million is in
foreign exchange ($3.6 million for the MCI components and $b.6 million for the
EAC component). Physical contingencies have not been provided for the
efficient load dispatch equipment because of the advanced state of preparation
of this component, while 5 percent has been added for load management
equipment and 10 percent has been provided for Moni power station energy
conservation equipment to allow for quantity uncertainties and design changes
during implementation. Base costs are as of December 1982 and allowances of
8.0 percent in 1983, 7.5 percent in 1984, 7 percent in 1985 and 6 percent in
1986 onwards have been added for future escalation of foreign costs in
accordance with the current estimates of expected international price trends.
Allowances for local price contingencies have been made at the rate of 9.5
percent in 1983, and 9 percent from 1984 through 1987. Consultants' costs for
the MCI and EaC components, on the basis of about 250 man-months, average
about $10,000 per man-month inclusive of salaries, fees, overhead,
international travel and subsistence.
52.      The proposed Bank loans of $3.6 million and $6.6 million to the
Republic of Cyprus and to EAC respectively would finance 100 percent of the
estimated foreign exchange costs of the project. The local costs of the MCI
components of the project, estimated at $1.7 million, would be tunded by
Government's budget allocations to MCI. The local costs of the EAC component,
estimated at $1.2 million, would be funded from EAC's internal cash generation.
Project Implementation
53.      MCI Components.  MCI would be responsible for the energy planning and
the renewable energy components, and for implementing the measures proposed
under the project for strengthening its own energy audit capabilities. The
Government and MCI have already taken steps to establish the organizational
framework to deal with renewable energy and to ensure the appointment of staff
at an early date to allow for training and project start-up on schedule. The
Energy Advisory Unit is already in place at MCI, and the UNDP has provided
financing for the first six months (beginning about mid-May 1983) of the
services of an expatriate Advisor/Coordinator who would assist the Project
Manager. The proposed loan to Cyprus would finance the services of the
Advisor/Coordinator after that period.



- 15 -
54.      Consultants acceptable to the Bank (METRA International of France)
were appointed by MCI in accordance with Bank guidelines in January 1983 for
the Energy Planning component.  Retroactive financing of up to $100,000 is
recommended for financing the consultant's services (Schedule 1, para. 2(b) of
the Cyprus Loan Agreement). The project would likewise finance the services
of consultants acceptable to the Bank to undertake studies concerning the
strengtbening of MCI's audit capabilities, the resource assessment, and the
renewable energy components.
55.      The proposed Applied Renewable Energy Center (AREC) would be
established under MCI's direction at the Higher Technical Institute (HTI) in
Nicosia. The AREC would rely largely on the facilities (such as workshops and
computers) of HTI but would be staffed by engineers, economists, technicians
and expatriate experts as required to implement the project. An engineer,
with qualifications acceptable to the Bank, has been selected and would be
appointed by MCT to head the AREC as the Project l4vanager.  The Ainistry of
Finance in coordination with MCI has taken the following specific measures and
commitments satisfactory to the Bank which ensure fulfillment by the
Government of the institutional arrangements necessary to establish AREC and
implement the project: (a) the allocation of positions for the Project
Manager and three professional staff members for the project has been approved
for the full project period; (b) during the first year of the project (1964)
one additional engineer, a clerical assistant, and a shorthand/typist would be
employed for the project; and (c)  any additional staff required for the
project in years 1985 and 1986 would be approved on the basis of a continuous
review of the project's work load. The Ministry of Finance has likewise
confirmed that it has made adequate provision in the budget to ensure that
these measures will be carried out. The MCI project components are expected
to be completed by December 1986.
56.      EAC Component.  EAC would implement the load management and efficient
dispatch program, the Moni power station energy conservation measures and
undertake the standby and peaking generation study. EAC appointed consultants
(Electricity Supply Board of Ireland and Preece Cardew and Rider of UK) in
November 1982 in accordance with Bank guidelines to prepare details and cost
estimates for the EAC component of the project. Retroactive financing of up
to $0.2 million is provided in the loan to EAC for these services (Schedule 1,
para. 2(b) of the EAC Loan Agreement).
57.      The overall responsibility for the engineering and design of all
works included in the EAC component for the project would be undertaken by
EAC's engineering staff which is well qualified and experienced. Services of
consultants acceptable to the Bank and to be financed under the project would
be secured for the design and preparation of bid documents for procurement of
material, equipment and civil works for Load Management and Moni Power Station
energy conservation schemes. The in-factory inspection woula be carried out
by consultants or EAC's staff.
58.      The installation, supervision during construction and commissioning
of the works included in the project would be carried out by EAC's technical
staff and construction crews. EAC would contract for the necessary
supervisory personnel with qualifications and experience satisfactory to the



- 16 -
Bank. EAC would acquire through purchase or lease the required construction
and testing equipment. The EAC project component is expected to be completed
by July 1987.
Financial Situation of EAC
59.      EAC is a well-organized and well-managed modern electric utility
which has successfully financed, and nearly completed, a new steam generation
plant and associated transmission and distribution network. However, EAC is
now facing severe financial constraints; since the events of 1974, EAC has not
been able to collect for the electricity supplied to the North (about 22
percent of EAC's total generation). Mainly because existing electricity
tariffs are already above the long-run marginal costs of electricity, the
Government has not resorted to further tariff increases to make up for the
uncollected billings.
60.      Financial covenants under Loan 1873-CY require tbat EAC earn a rate
of return on revalued assets of 6 percent in 1983 and thereafter, and that EAC
would not incur any additional debt without the agreement of the Bank unless
EAC's internal cash generation covers its debt service, including debt to be
incurred, by at least 1.5 times. EAC's rate of return on revalued assets was
about 4 percent for 1982, and EAC achieved only 0.9 debt service coverage and
that too, by Government action of transferring Government loans to LAC as
EAC's capital. EAC's present tariffs are projected to earn only a 2.9 percent
rate of return for 1983 and internal cash generation would cinly be U.9 times
its debt service. Clearly, it is necessary for EAC to have sufficient
revenues in 1983 to earn a reasonable return and to have enough cash flow to
adequately cover its debt service obligations. It is equally clear that EAG's
financial difficulties stem mainly from the political situation involving the
two communities which has rendered EAC unable to collect for electricity
supplied to the North. EAC's rate of return on revalued assets in 19b2 would
have been 15.4 percent otherwise. However, because of the sensitive and
complex nature of the situation, a tariff increase may become the only
politically feasible alternative for the Government to take to reasonably
ensure the financial viability of EAC.,  It is estimated that a 15 percent
overall average tariff increase, effec:tive July 1, 1983, wotuld enable EAC to
earn a 5 percent rate of return on revalued assets and achieve a debt service
coverage of 1.4.
61.      This increase falls slightly short of EAC's presently covenanteo rate
of return of 6 percent and debt service coverage of 1.5 times. However, since
a higher increase would not likely be feasible to implement due to the already
high tariffs of EAC, EAC has agreed to amend its existing rate of return
covenant from a level of 6 percent to 5 percent for 1983-87 and b percent
thereafter and its debt service coverage to 1.4 times in 1983 and 1.5 times
thereafter (Sections 5.04 and 5.05 of the EAC Loan Agreement). Furthermore,
as a condition of effectiveness of the loan to EAC, the Government and EAG
would take steps satisfactory to the Bank including but not limited to a
tariff increase, to enable EAC to achieve a rate of return of 5 percent on its
revalued assets in 1983 (Section 7.01 of the EAC Loan Agreement). This
reduced rate of return is further justified by the fact that were EAC able to
realize revenues from its sales to the North, its return, with the proposed
tariff increase, would be 14.4 percent on revalued assets in 1983.



- 17 -
Procurement
62.      Consultants' services for the MCI and EAC coimponents of the project
would be obtained in accordance with Bank guidelines. Contracts for supply
and installation of equipment financed by the Bank would be by international
competitive bidding in accordance with the Bank Guidelines for Procurement,
except for the small items such as relays, recorders and instrumaents required
for the EAC component, and instruments, recording devices and computer
software for the MCI components which would be procured according to limited
international bidding procedures acceptable to the Bank, whereby bids shall be
invited from a list of at least three qualified suppliers. Procurement under
limited international bidding would be limited to $60,000 per contract and
$700,000 in the aggregate for the MCI components, and $90,000 per contract and
$300,000 in the aggregate for the EAC component. Procurement contracts would
include appropriate provisions for inspection and supervision during
construction and commissioning by the supplier. Bank financing would cover
100 percent of foreign exchange costs of all imported materials and equipment,
installation and consultants' services included in the project. Civil works
associated with the MCI and EAC components would be contracted locally and
financed as part of local costs.
Disbursements
63.      The proposed loans, totaling $10.2 million, would be disbursed as
follows:
(i) MCI components ($3.6 million) September 1983 through December
1986 - 100 percent of foreign expenditures for consultants'
services, equipment, training, and installation; and
(ii) EAC component ($6.6 million) September 1983 through December
1987 - 100 percent of foreign expenditures for consultants'
studies, engineering services, material, equipment,
installation and commissioning of the project.
Retroactive financing of up to $300,000 is provided for consultants' services
rendered from November 1982 (paras. 54 and 56). The closing date of both the
loans to Cyprus and to EAC would be December 31, 1987.
Auditing and Monitoring
64.      Under existing loans, EAC is required to submit its audited financial
statements to the Bank within four months after the end of the fiscal year.
EAC's financial statements are audited by an internationally known independent
auditing firm satisfactory to the Bank, and audit reports have been submitted
to the Bank within the agreed time. The existing auditing covenant is
repeated in the loan (Section 5.02 of the EAC Loan Agreement). MCI's accounts
are audited by the Auditor-General, who is independent of the Government and
this arrangement is acceptable to the Bank for the purpose of auditing project
expenditures.  During negotiations, assurances were obtained that mCI's annual
statement of accounts for the project components would be audited by auditors
satisfactory to the Bank and the audited statements would be submittea to the



- L8 -
Bank not later than six months after the end of the fiscal year (Section 4.02
of the Cyprus Loan Agreement).  EAC's existing monitoring system is
satisfactory to the Bank for the purpose of the EAC component of the project.
Agreement was reached at negotiations on an appropriate monitoring system for
the MCI components.
Benefits and Risks
65.      The MCI project components are mainly of an institutional-building
nature and involve major benefits which, however, cannot be quantified. They
would provide Cyprus with the basis for developing a sustained and meaningful
renewable energy program by assisting the Government in building the
institutional infrastructure necessary for the systematic aevelopment of the
country's renewable energy resources. The resultant long-term benefit would
be a gradually reduced dependence on imported fuel. At the same time research
and development as well as pilot projects and studies to be undertaken under
the project would enable Cyprus to evaluate, through carefully monitored
firsthand experience, the commercial potential of the most promising renewable
energy applications in Cyprus, improve the quality and efficiency of locally
made equipment and increase consumer confidence in the technologies.
66.      The benefits resulting from conservation measures to be implementea
by EAC under the project include: improved thermal efticiency of Moni power
station, savings in fuel costs and savings in interest payments on account of
the one-year postponement in commissioning of an additional 60 MW generation
capacity that can be accommodated as a result of the increased efficiency ot
plant operations to be introduced through the project. Benefits would also be
realized in the form of improved reliability and quality of supply to the
consumer. The economic rate of return of the EAC component of the project is
calculated at about 22 percent.
67.      There are no special risks involved in the EAC component of the
project where the equipment proposed has been tested and used by other
utilities and installation of the material and equipment would follow normal
practices and procedures. The studies provided in the project for the
renewable energy component are expected to adapt technology, now being applied
in many countries, to conditions in Cyprus through the pilot/demonstration
projects. However, as the renewable component of the project would be the
first project of this nature to be undertaken by MCI, intensive supervision
and monitoring of the project implementation by the Bank would be required.
Risks of delays in implementation have been greatly minimized by the
Government's expeditious action towards establishing the necessary project
implementation mechanism.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRIJMENTS AND AUTHORITY
68.      The Loan ana Guarantee Agreements between the Republic of Cyprus and
the Bank, the Loan Agreement between the Electricity Authority of Cyprus (EAG)
and the Bank, and the Report of the Coimnittee provided for in Article III,
Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the



- L9 -
Executive Directors separately. Special conditions of the project are given
in Section III of Annex III.  It is an additional condition of effectiveness
of the proposed loan to EAC that the Government and EAU would take steps
satisfactory to the Bank, including but not limited to a taritf increase, so
as to enable EAC to achieve a rate of return of 5 percent on its revalued
assets in 1983.
69.      I am satisfied that the proposed loans would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - kECOITv4ENDATION
70.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loans.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
April 26, 1983
Washington, D.C.



ANNEX I
- 20 -                                           (Page 1 of 5)
TABLE 3A
CYPRUS - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
CYPRUS                            REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGO
AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                                     - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)T-
TOTAL              9.3                                    MOST RECENT                MIDDLE INCOME             INDUSTRIALIZED
AGRICULTURAL       5.3                 1960  /b    1970 lb ESTIMATE /b                   EUROPE               MARKET ECONOHIES
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                       ..           ..    3560.0                        2323.9                  10328.2
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)       698.0       1230.8    1736.9                        2107.4                    7277.7
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)   573.0          604.0      620.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 35.6            40.8      46.3                         47.9                      78.0
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                           0.7
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                             0.8
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                     2055..
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. 1M.                         61.9         65.3       66.8                         83.3                     138.6
PER SQ. 101. AGRICULTURAL LAND    104.2         115.0      117.7                        155.4                     509.7
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                           36.7         31.0       25.9                         31.1                      22.7
15-64 YRS.                           57.4         59.0       64.0                         61.2                      65.7
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                      5.9         10.0      10.0                          7.7                      11.6
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 1.5         0.5/c      0.3/c                        1.6                       0.8
URBAN                                 3.3          1.9       1.5                          3.5                       1.4
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)        25.8         19.7      19.4                         23.6                      14.5
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)        10.5          9.8       8.8                           9.2                      9.3
GROSS REPRODUlCTION RATE                1.8          1.3       1.1                           1.6                      0.9
FAMILY PLANNING
A0CEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)          .
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..             ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)            64.0         91.0      100.0                        116.0                     111.1
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                    102.4        121.8      138.6/d                      125.1                     130.8
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)            73.7         88.5      104.5/d                       92.7                      97.1
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE         29.9         42.2       51.2/d                       35.9                      61.3
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE         1.8          1.6       0.8                           9.2                      0.5
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    68.7            70.9      72.5                          67.6                     73.8
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                             29.8          27.7      18.1                         65.1                      11.3
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                               26.2         95.0       95.0/e
URBAN                               67.5        100.0       94.0/e
RURAL                                 7.1        92.0       96.0/e
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                            95.0       95.0/a
TRBAN                                 ..        100.0       94.0/ae
RURAL                                  -.        92.0       95.O/e
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN             1465.4       1225.2    1282.4/d                     1105.4                     620.7
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON       1182.4/f      580.2      342.3/d                      634.4                     246.9
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                              221.1        182.5      185.8/d                      286.8                     122.0
URBAN                              227.5/f      242.3      258.3/d                      192.0                     140.6
RURAL                             3324.0/f    3111.3    4788.7/d
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED              ..         16.2      16.7/e                        20.0                      17.7
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                 4.0           ..
URBAN                                 4.0           ..        ..
RURAL                                 3.9
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                 1.5           ..
U7RBAN                                1.3           S***-
RURAL                                 1.6           ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                               43.1            ..
URBAN                               90.4            ..        ..
RURAL                                21.5           ..         ..



ANNEX I
- 21--                                    (Page 2 of 5)
TABLE 3A
CYPRUS - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
CYPRIJS                              REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVER/GES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) -
MOST RECENT               MIDDLE INCOME             INDUSTRIALIZED
i960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE lb                  EUROPE              MARKET ECONOMIES
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
pRIMARY:     TOTAL                 102.0         88.0/h    84.0/h                      102.9                    101.7
MALE                 103.0         87.0/h    83.0/h                      107.1                     103.9
FEMALE               100.0         88.0/h    85.0/h                       99.0                    103.6
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  47.0        54.0/h    66.0/h                        60.2                     88.4
MALE                  55.0         57.0/h    66.0th                       66.4                      83.4
FEMALE                39.0         52.0/h    66.0/h                       54.0                     84.2
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (% OF SECONDARY)   3.5           10.5/e    13.2/h                       31.6                      18.2
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             33.6         30.3/e    24.0/h                       25.8                     20.3
SECONDARY                           23.5        21.0/e    17.0/h                        22.2                     16.1
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         75.9         85.0      89.0                         75.9                     98.9
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          47.6         91.9     121.5/d                       51.0                    338.4
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         148.3       276.5      485.4                        157.2                   1021.7
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           2.8         81.1     161.8                        123.7                    403.6
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                  123.9        112.6     108.4                        112.3                    331.2
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  9.0           10.1         ..                         4.0                       3.6
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)        237.2        253.6     277.5
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    33.3         33.6      34.9                         36.6                     36.0
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               42.0         38.6      35.3                         38.7                      6.2
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  27.1        27.7       28.2                         25.9                     37.8
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 41.4         42.0      44.8                         44.5                     45.4
MALE                                  56.1         56.4      58.4                         56.3                      58.9
FEMALE                                27.2         27.9      31.2                         32.8                      32.4
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.0          1.0       0.8                          0.9                       0.8
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..         12.1/i
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..           39.1/i      ..                           ,,                     43.0
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..          7.9/i       ..                          ..                      5.5
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..         19.6Li       ..                          ..                      16.5
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (Is$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..
RURAL                                 ..           ..     376.7/d
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..     746.7/d
RURAL                                 ..           ..     512.7/d                      406.6
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLlUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..
RURAL                                 ..
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1978 and 1980.
/c   Due to emigration population growth rate is lower than rate of natural increase; /d 1977; /e 1975;
/f 1962; [S 1972; /h Excluding Turkish schools; li 1966, urban only.



- 22 -                                                                   ANNEX I
(Page 3  f )
DEPINITIONS OF SOCIAL. IffgICgTORS
Bate:  Although ,he data are dre-  trot source  g.ontaly judged the mon  authorirento  an   eibe,i hud .a,c he totd that they eynnh
naticoally cenreraile because at the look ot unedardleod deflniituns und --oi Pt sed  byAihoeni  onrie- in collecting  the dat.  Tedt    e oe
theles., asef1 no descrih  orders of eagnicde., indic-te trends, ond ohuacti-e certin s-Jor difbe-tenycs                     be        i
The reference.. gops aro  III the con c..u....ry troo   oche soil ccI coocy  Id (2) a,au-try gtop sitb   c-oha- high- or-e-ae ion-   thor the cot                      9 roup
ef tie  _uhj_ Oc__une   (eno_pt hoe   "igh Income   Ill  EoporI_r"roup nhere "Middle loo-   North Africa and Middle taut" in t c..ue  ..ecu.se o  u-ronge
socbn-c~hutal affniclen).In the, retercace gry I.h  ohe aneuge  ore poplaio   neghtd arith..eic  _aanst_ eachi oi_unar obd shot only when
-aJo,tity of che coun tries in   g,up has datoforthat indicao.    Obo,e the  -o...oge at c                    -nrc  ng the budbootrs dope.rda on she analuility of data
enod is no-  cte,cuinmst he eneo-iadincntg  uerage- of oc- iodcatof toanthr   Thos  anerages ar                                _nl     .sful inepa:r in g ihc, n-le of
unidctr    aina  aogh.ecenoryaendtelere-cgr-p-.
AgA (t:housan.d sq.ku.)                                                                           PouaInpr  optltd - otai., uthan, aod coral - Popolatfan (totl,
Total - Tata1 -urface urea  -priuog lard urea and inland weu;1979 data.                           arhn. and rura1'l) inided hy their respehi-in  omeof hospitl  hda
Agrioni1-ra1 - Eutiate, adarcf         na   rennar.d eamporarily  t Permanenly                    n_tal   n  uiead private  genrIeaand speciatheed hosPitaIndre
tar craps, pere.mrket and kitchen gardens or toito ftalne; 1979 data-                          hatihliat is crentr.a       'yt        : ae th-''lithan- permanntl  staffed
by atles  oePhysician.  tstahthhmets pra-iding prinoipaily.. cate-
Gitt Pit CAPITA (110) ,- GNP Per capita, estimates ohcrtant socket peicen  o-                       dial  tearetinlded.  ira  hospitals. hotevr, io1tddethealth
oulaed  y unecanersion sackd au tenldfanAtu   (1978-80 hosts); 1960,                        an    eica  cner   otpemnty-tffed hy a phyticis  (hu  hya
1970, and 1980 data,                                                                             medical asisan.        ure,edaife  etc.)  hbihb offerI i-patIent  ...m
dation end pee-ide a limfiedcsaa  meical facilitis    Far stacis
ENERGY CONSyetTIONi Pit CAPITA -onai  ennpsa a1f-eril  nrgy (coat                                   tical purpse  urhas hospitls I.is,,da git  risipa/geer l hpitais,
and lignite, petroleu,ntra   a   ndhdn,                  aletand geohermal rlco-                  and mel-    ositls       -1a at rura  hospitals ml medical and materity
iticiry) to kilograns of col  qineiper capita; 1910, 1970, and 1979                              censer,. Speoiaiieed h-npi-ais ae  included ocI  aider ntsa.
data.                                                                                          kdmlisi..n per HoptaRed - ftal nasAnt at adnission  so  r dia.hanges
yeshespitals dinided by the n       Ie of hed.
POPULATuION AND VITAL. STATIST ICS
fTal Ponitis,Mid-Tear (thnosandu( - A.  fy Ja1y 1; 1960, 1970,. ad 1980                      HO1S101
dataA-.fotg  Sitee  f R...utheld (Ipers~,nnspet honuehald) -  nta1, urhan, ard rrl
Urhs  aplaio  )psrenyn  tota.l) - Rtatinof urban so total populatio;                             A  oueba.   cessists  tafErou fldinldna1s who share tiring qurters
different definitosa   rhcaesmy afc                     8rability of dat                        ad     it_ermin meal.  A haader or lodger may or may        he included in
-mEgcutis  1960, 1970, and 198f data.                                                           the ha..sahold forsaisia  purposes.,
PIpaletiac Prejec lionsAccIrue  numb-erf peron  Per ennetotl,rban, asd total - acerage su-
Papulatios In year hOG  - Cuereon population projectiens arc based on 1MG   her of1persons per . om in. all urhar , and rata-  nonppied cannentiosa
-aa1 popula.tio  hy age and sc  and their mar-oity and fertility caret.                      dwohigs  renpecicely.  D.Mweilnge-ludaoayemnenstutresan.
Projection parae-.er  for meenality rates  o-pra- af hhree I_ccias-,m-                       unoccu'pied peu
Ing lid,, enc,rciancy at hi,th lncoensgneg  ith cuiy    o  cait  inonm                     acesml to El_uict,n  lpno    fdnlinat   -  atl,una, and tonel 
ire, and fenle ifr IIyI tny           bsailietog an 7... yer..   The pora-                 Con-rtio... Isdtisg, . nub elatic   iny linIng quarters as Peeesrag.e.
Octetsfar tatil Iyhrt   ls    a rtben inne1s a.uombg Aeclise in                         af total, urhan. and rural deellings re,po nieF.
fertility a--oding yo Iacme level and pas  f-ely plansogpefomaoc
Btch onuntry is then assigned ace of the- bnIe c...leatinn of martliny                  iDLCATION
and tertil ity trenis for projection PurPosa,.AdjastedEnoletuIc
Oratinar  poulati.n-. .       uttio..sry ypulat. ion there Is on geouch snePrimary school - tota, mote and femola - iron   -tai  male and female
the bIrthrat, e iaqual to the death rac, and als  theagl          trrnr  to-                    orollannt at all ag.es atshe primary l-nel    P..percentges of rosetir
ma. in _cnsar.  Thi  Is achie..ed only after fiertilirY ruins decline na                        primary school-age populati...s; narmally ic o  chIldren aged b-Il
the replacement lorn   buIt  e- ropradn-i   rare, ,he- suh genraioyar  hut adjusted tar diff treat hengths ofprmay euain a
ofnuorplcsislf   oa_tly.Thetaisr  pouato    ice wa-cutries with uni-ors-  educat ion enrollentna    aet-d 1i  pcraos,t
ouieo   ntho hauin of the proj.etd  haracteristic  of the, .paputisu                    sinc  sam  papils are below or  hbne the affiilsbnlae
is the poac 200t, and th. rays  f deoliae af fertility ruts to replac-                        eadatry sna   -tona, mal eand femaic - Compu,te  as abar; -saandie
meat lenl,                                                                                     educto   reuresa  leat 1       tatyer  of P -proed primaery isscuti;
bear  _tanonac  enlpelatta  to reached - The pear ,hec  taiear  ypnl.i-t                          pro-idcageerl,r_ainal   rtaneetatt    isr uctonsfor pupils
siewiltorahed.                                                                             saiy of 12 to 17 years at ag; caers-pondenc-  -ase  are gnetalip,
persq  bk.- Mid-year papul,atia  per sonae  htionerter (lOt hectaros I ofVoca.tioa ...                     lmn   pecn1o   eonay    .- Poit...aI institstam
cnlae;1960, 1970 and i979 danae.                                                      inclu.de tetnna.  industrial  or ho   prgrns which aparte indep-d-
per  q. k. oniculoralland- Coutd   anshn  for agri-Itura1 land                          cerly or asdpateasa  secodaryi"'iit'tiaos
only; 1960, 1970 and 1979 data.                               .                             Pnih-nbeabr ratio - primerp, and secodary - Tatal stadanisneroled is
?Papolaine Age stractrarbpret  - ChIldren  (0-14 ynar-(.  -krbng-age (15-                        primary and sc...ndacy 1-1ei  dicidod hy numbers  f teorh-eesi  the
hi yours), and retired (65 years and ...or) as pono-nges af eid-ycar ypop-                     onreepoading 1evelu.
latian; 1960, 1970. and iO  dat.r-Adir, literac  rae(ecn-                                                                     - Lt-c i  adults (ahll  to read and wcit.)
Popalaties irnoth ~ten   (Porcsif- tonal - Annoa  growth rates of total alid-                    as apercentag, at tara1 adult papul-sin aged iS pears aed acer.
pear papulat'ian Tar 19Sf-tO, 1960-70. and 1970-801.
Population Grneth Rat  (portent) - urban _-1Ana  groah rains of urban popo-                  CONSUMPTION
latiana  fee 1950-60, 1960-70, and 1970-80.                                                  PasenerCas  pe  thousandlpapuls )-P..ss.sgete ors campriso mois
ode Birth tam   (pey thousand) - Annual lin,e births per ehusan d of mid-year                   cassaiIls   hnnii   esn;ecua  ahlse,bassad
po,pultion; 1960.  790,Ied Loll Aut,,a-  utarp vehicle..
Trade loath Rat  (porth nh....nd  - Arnnua  doaths per thousan.dof eid-yean                    Radia tecaivens (pee thousand PaPulacinef - All typ..osftrnsc             for radio
p  touias; 1960. 1910. and 19MI  data                                                       broacats In genra  pub Icehuad ofppalaltian; encladesas
lins Merdacio  Reto -Aceraf   numberaf daughters a woma  all beer In                           ltn ,enu       reevesi  -oasies and in years wen  ogistraiiao ef eadia
boo norma  e-pr-duci- period if she onporiecoos pr..nit age-specIfic, for-                     -etoa   in effect; danatar f.....t pears may son he nmparabir since,
ri lity  rat.es; usually five-your a--cges ending in 1960, 1970. and 19f0.                     sane ta-strios abolished 1itann.ing.
Pu ie _Pintg-i-cA-ptoos. Annual1 (th-asandi) - Ans-1 nosier of  -eopt-r                      fOros  prtosn  popalatlar) - TLt...rnniner_far .broa,dcas  en
af hithnai rol dencs  notasice.f.                tnnlfml  planning.progru.                     ineral1 p,bilt per thousan d   .papulian; .enldes.o icensed I  receto-rs
PaelfpPI-ian g -inc    (pret uf__ iedoa eo)-Frotagoaf: marie                                     inc-aniries end inpyoar.anth..          ta nf TV setmea-  in llf.toc
see   f rhild-beuriag ago (15-44 yearn) ,ha one birth--nt-aI  d-ices to                  N-wupuece Cien_ltian  (per thansud  .paputtian)_S-thw   the anerag   rio-
al iar ed onmen in sam.eag  greup.                                                         -1aino   dal   Mea  ineetnnppr", defined a   periodia
p,blino   dntdprimarily  to rcoringgenera  saws   It is cniered
FWDM AND NU'TRITION                                                                                 nh  "dal"it 1           P .ppear at least fu  rtime  aInook
Inden of Plond PaacnPer Capita (19f9-71-100) - Indan of per capitanna                          CInema Annual Attendanepe   ait e  yerBased"an the nambor 
peadutian of all fand c-ndities.  Production oncado  sen..d and fedad                          nkntee  sold during the~Y yer. dolun            ad ission  to Anein  billma
ha on  aledar yea  hauls.  C.-di ties cron  prImar  goods (e.g. sagarca.e                      and lenhile units.
instead ofsuar hoib are edible and -yntali  nutrients (a.g. coffee ad
coo are ... Ildod).- Aggregate pradoanion of each ..actry is bated or ILABOR FORCE
nat'iaa a. ccvuge producr yric  wights; 1961-61, 19 70. and 1980 dat,..nasal Lethar Poe, Ithauanu- fcaomi-aly attire  p-nsona  ianuding
Pee capitasupply of  alorIes (ern  ofrgnrenents).    - Canep-td from                   armd far-n   n  nnytd odbus  -ncladinf hau.e. nen  nide ts,I etc.,
orrrgy'qninient of net fond Tsyto   nln in i   untry yent epita                                rualgnrla   atni ages.  Infinittoss  in canno ..e..trios ate
per day. Avilab le  _upplies oceprin- d-matic p-ad-tion,iFr    less                            nai copara.ble; 1960, 1970 end 1980 data.
corners  and changes in stock.  Net n-pplios eclude animal lend, needs,                       yFele (p-oro.ni) - PemaI. labor farce as p-ontags uf teol lbnr term.
quant ities noed in fond Proc...sing, aod inur  to dInributian.  tequiec-                      lrciue(ren)-lbhr farce in taitIn. fretry, houslIn  Isd
maisnrea temall by PAO b...ad on phys.Laaic-l tndsb far narml actS-                       fishing as pvest..ago  fnta   ao f       are 960. i970            980ifOdaa
nity ad beaIth .....idfning to-ir-menalt-         r nro  bd  weihts  ag                       nuty  pron  - Labo   fr ta            is ainieg,  oosrcis     -mnfaci-ing
and son di     btyihashn     papulatien, and a1loning II  ec  _ffo      .at.eat                  and e1-ericiity, canoe and gas as peroeneage of total lamer far.e;
houn ehold lan-1; 1961-65. 1970 and 1977 data.                                                   1960, 1910 and 1980 data.
Per naita sopp.iyfto ei   gaapelr day) -, rotein cotent-  ofper .. Pita                       Pareicieatien iota (percent) - tata1, mole, and female - P.r,itiptino or
tensppip uf fundpo   ds         e mupi  of food is Anti nod as sic.Re-                        utti,ity earns ate nunputd as itatl, male, and female labor turn  as
qairemna-  f or all ....tries estblished by USIA pr-nido a.         iia                        percentages  f tatul, meteand female papa.insio  of all  g.. r-mp-ti-ly;
allowances af go grama o  nasal protais poe day  nd 10 fram   afann    n          1961. 170. an   190dta.  Tha.. are hated as Ild's partelipata.             as
anmlpnef   sasaerg   o   i  mend,.e.p.se6by PA  is tic Thid                                  froanut        enpodoa  mat 8   Saidtppttn    nde1   n   5ada
World Pond, Sure;  96-th190  ed197daa.totEttliaht  ora
Perno itaMmmi sppl  teataml  and palms -             Pesin  ul  of- -od do-lngti
the ta  aial  nd  sssi         m  par day; 196-60, 19n 0 and gt.   P daafSIOt)lTMT
Chid(aes1k)lengaetpe   Ratsd  -Anua   eahsprphosadtoFonnistatFicteSeae  bahinnahan  knd     Otecd  by cinas
ag   eu   -A eas  to   Bida  i  bsae  gedn-p;.    b  A for mes   d Thlairden             0  ecan ,,rihes  20pest  paat2  pnos,an   ors  4   ss
triad datd deemed team1ite 1shie0  19f,180 19            19Sf data.                            ef busbold.,.    .r
tled fuenoraip as Birt  (yars J. A         peeg  no    961 a   ya 7a  endfn  renaming       INGw   DITRIBUTIsgNstasarnryproite s                       satpstyl'sa
anl birth  1960 D.thR 1910!-d'  AL1 andPe1980 data.n                                            anred shua   ha finteepta  wih esId,eesha -asoina.~-R.-.tyrh.
Inanroralt  Bs  lee  rhilsod). -n Anhml    eth  ofP inensr odr  onpet dIntimat5 ed . tb s Fr neh                 i    ane-     ent  00 p at2 r. isnpits   -aba  and prua ..
ofi. agetpe  dhnsad f'.linebiths -; 1960 19190 and  1980  data.                                Ans.la. paat1       ntm   aeli.htldneles   eowwtba  hta
Aniaaf t  Saet.yet Bunco  (perse  at pApalasgn  -. faal Freet  af  rural -ilBaa-               TI fate1tiamli  adtqante diet  plus esantial  sa-f               ..esimtas  e
her af people (total, urban, ad naa)wiheassba  nas  natsafedha
eaerecha .ta  tem.a.    sdhonae,oen,adsntr ...l( asR.ta  rahlardint erspree    thnm  ,amel is oe-btbirdolses..                                           a  mp
I..tentstaos  a  thit.  eepecshira..l  peAatlass. Itasebaiaeeat pahlia                          paeema E  ti-dAtame. at_aa   Inae._   Ir (US$ieti  d            ...ata   .da rura
resoshiaaces gadiml  that-,9b   19b bsnit  ormebesa  te  aseed                                  o t.tal - Frces  at..  pop-aio (I.      han an  leve    hese"am s
dost ban  Ce s       Perod . t ds fepoerisat  pat  of .tha day  in Patching thet.1  ..f..                                                                           I
gasOS.teeaOssa   erata   ouaia   taal sea    n   oa 
bato   at p.peoi (total.  seb as,  and euaith stenod... by, mentrsddupbsla
p_toetae   oftatrepatn                 ppltioos   tre-e,tadisaslma  Etutafads.P-yIe.                                                   1-P                     r...dr .
Pra.t.a. sr...     Soa bl.Fipsiatiat dthda  by s..mif. r  af..   thrac hisi   .. shelysi-r1 P..tf  . .t-(b Emeni ad BeltDtaDna
dofnet h..9mita tra ad mdi.pl stih... at pertarsity des.7 inaaue   sapti  adhiaeeie                                                                                  apttha
Poalatis  ea-r Nu"InaFcm       ootte"iie   y  abra   rnsaagMp18
A-els and fsEleg         t   mas  assistant,:,  Iams raia   a-   sad
Nalrsio    amet'lo(ties.      :              , r.di   ..I



- 23 -
hsNNEi I
IPage 4 of ,J
CYPRUS - ELCONOMIC DEVELOPMEN1 DATA bdEEr 1/
Actual                         Estimated        Projected            Annual Growth Rate   bhare ou  our'
1975      1977         1979        1981          1Y82        1983        198)       19i-bU    19c1-d)           IY6l
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
(US$ million, 1975 prices)
Gross domestic product (at
market prices)                   6b9.9   1004.1        1233.7      l8J4.0         1397.8    i4)9.         1590.3         1J.b         J.9        IOU.U
Gain from terms of trade              -        -1.0       -46.0                        -           -           -
Gross domestic income              689.9    1003.1       1209.7       134-.U        1397.8    14539.        1590.          13.0          3.9       I0U.u
Exports (goods & NFS)              248.0    513.b         b70.5        857.6         909.1      963.b       1082.6         24.D          7.7        03.b
Imports (goods & NFS)              395.8     727.4        913.7        955.7         99J.9    103.0b        113l.0         1o.u         3.9         71.1
Resource balance                   147.8      213.8       243.2         98.1          84.d        74.U        48.2          5.0       -19.6          7.3
Investment                         120.0    258.2         375.7        359.3         J04.7      370.2        301.4         2.6          z.1         .!o.7
Consumption                        717.7    958.7        1077.2       1082.8        1117.9     1163.l       1237.3          9.4          2.1        60.o
Domestic savings                   -27.8       44.4       132.5        2b1.Z         279.9      296.2        333.2            ..        i.O          19.4
National savings                     (0.5      93.7       174.9        283.7         304.0      319.3       3J9.9          L3.U          9.9        Z1.1
SECTOR OUTPUT                                    Share of Total Output at Current Factor Lost (%)
Agriculture                          16.7      14.0         l1.0b       l.1            9.8         9.7         9.3          2.u          2.9
Industry                            24.3       29.7        34.8         35.1          35.4       35.0         34.5         10.5          1.3
Others                               59.0      56.3        53.o         54.6                      3.3         30.u         13.,1         4.6
PRICES (1975 = 100)
Export price                        100.0    107.0        114.5        IJI.9         137.2       143.4       lo/.Z
Inport price                       100.0    107.1         119.2        146.1         151.9       l0.1        8b35.3
Terms of Trade                      10O.u      99.9         96.1        90.3          90.3        9U.3        90.2
GDP deflator                       100.0      118.0       148.8        18t.3         193.6      205.4        236.,
PUBLIC FINANCE                             As 7. of GDP at Current Market Price
Government revenues                  21.3      18.8         20.U        22.3          z3.0
Government expenditures and
net lending                       35.5      26.4         27.4         30.7          30.1
Deficit                              14.2       7.8          7.4         8.4           7.1
SELECTED INDICATORS                1975-80   1981-85                     LABOR FORCE                  1975         1980
ICOR                                   3.0       5.4                     Labor force (thousand)   207.3    210.U
Import elasticity                      1.3       1.0                     Unemployment (4)              16.1        2.0
Average domestic savings rate          9.4      20.2                     Employment (thousand)        173.6    204.1
Marginal domestic savings rate   34.7           26.3                        Agriculture (5)            23.3       21.6
Investment/GDP                       27.3       25.6                        Industry (W)               22.0       29.0
Imports/GDP                          58.7       71.0                       Others  553                 32.7      49.2
1/ Refer to the area under Government's control only.
EM2DD
April 1983



- 24 -
(Pa6e 3ot 4)
CYPRUS - BALANCE OF PaYMENTS AND EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE I/
(In million of US dollars)
Actual                 Estimated          Projected
1975       1977     1979     1981      1982         1983      1985
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS SUMMARY
Exports (goods & NFS)          275.6       519.1   872.b    997.9    1l1l.0    1295.4          1701.4
Imports (goods & NFS)          390.3       703.1  1138.7   1238.9       1381.2   1577.2        2056.2
Resource gap                  -114.7    -184.0   -266.1    -241.0    -270.3   -281.b           -295.0
Net factor income                 5.2       23.0   -10.4    -24.5         56.7       54.2        38.3
Net transfer                     15.2       14.2    24.8       27.4       27.5       30.1        3J.9
Current account balance        -94.3    -146.8  -251.7   -189.1    -186.2   -197.5             -222.8
Grants to government             57.0       58.o    40.8       35.7       39.8       J9.6        35.4
Net M & LT                       2.2        41.7   126.4    145.3        132.b    148.6         176.4
Disbursement                12.3       57.3   166.6    221.1         225.6    257.1        352.2
Amortization                10.1       15.6    40.2        75.8       93.0    108.5         175.8
Capital, n.i.e.                   6.0       43.0    24.3       72.6       77.0       83.0        92.4
Net errors and omissions        -9.8         8.3    22.0       16.2        -           -           -
Overall balance                -38.8         5.4   -32.2   -       80.7   6d.2       73.7        81.4
International reserves
(end year)       215.2       332.2   373.9   j58.3         575.7    057.4         857.4
Exchange rate (g/CL)          2.7162     2.4510  2.8220   2.3789        2.1021
Petroleum imports               49.1        83.6   125.4    150.6        270.5    298.1         371.u
LOAN COMMITMENTS
Actual
DEBT & DEBT SERVICE               1975    1977      1979   1961
Total M & LT                      7.0       78.1     52.6    204.9           Total debt outstanding
IBRD                         -         10.0    16.0       14.u           (Disbursed, end of period)   76.3   162..  J300.o  497.d
Other multilateral           5.6        5.2      2.7      29.4          Public debt service               10.1    15.0    40.2   75.8
Bilateral                    -         10.4    14.4        25.4          of  h,bcCb interest              14.9,   1t.6)  (24.0) kul.)
Suppliers                    1.4        1.7      3.9        5.5         Debt service ratio                 3.7      3.0      4.o     7.6
Financial institutions    -            50.8    15.7    130.4            Interest/Total 000                 6.3      5.3      8.3    b.4
Debt service/Total DOD            13.2      9.6    13.4   15.2
IBRD Disb./Total diso.           28.,4      5.0    13.6    4.9
AVERAGE TERMS OF M&LT COMMITMENTS                                                I8RD DOD/Total D00                jl,,0    24.9    16.7   14.5
IBRKi debt service/Total
Grant element of total                                                        debt service                     47.0    34.8    18.1   14.9
commitments                  15.8        17.0      7.1    -16.1
Average ipterest (7)              6.7        7.1      8.3      13.7
Average maturity (year)          14.4       12.5      9.5      10.7
I/ Refer to the area under Government's control only.
EM2DD
April 1983



-2  -
ANNEX II
(Page 1 of 4)
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERAIIONS IN CYPRUS
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS
(As of March 31, 1983)
…----   US- iUill1io    …
Amount (less cancellations)
Loan
Number   Year      Borrower       Purpose                  Bank          Undlisbursed
Eleven loans fully disbursed                                 75.5               -
1344     1976   Republic of       Highway II
Cyprus                                     10.0                4.7
1483     1977   Republic of       Rural
Cyprus           Development               10.0                2.6
1540     1978   Cyprus Ports    Ports II
Authority                                   8.5                1.4
1658     1979   Republic of       Water Resources
Cyprus           Development               11.0                9.8
1744     1979   Cyprus            DFC
Development
Bank                                        5.0                0.1
1873     1980   Electricity       Power V
Authority of
Cyprus                                     lb.U                9.7
1988     1981   Republic of       Fruit and Vegetable
Cyprus           Export                    14.0               13.5
2128     1982   Republic of       Highways III               12.2              12.0
Cyprus
Total                                             162.2              53.8
of which has been repaid                        38.6
Total now outstanding                             123.4
Amount sold                     2.3
of which has been repaid    2.3
Total now held by Bank                            123.4
Total undisbursed                                                    53.8



- .26 -
A1NEX II
(Page 2 of 4)
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of March 31, 1983)
…---   US$ Million--------
Year            Obligor            Type-of Business       Loan      Equity      Total
1972    Cyprus Cement Company           Cement             2.3        0.6         2.9
1977    Cyprus Pipes Industry           Construction
material           u.5        U.2         0.7
1983    Dome Hotel                      Tourism            1.9        0.3         2.2
1983    Cyprus Investment and           Money and
Securities Corporation       Capital Markets       -       0.2         0.2
Total gross commitments                            4.7        1.3         b.U
Less cancellations, sales,
terminations and repayments                        2.6       0.5         3.1
Total commitments now held by IFC                  2.1        0.8        2.9
Total undisbursed                                  1.9        0.5         2.4



7 -
ANNEX II
(Page 3 of 4)
C. STATUS OF PROJECTS IN EXECUTION AS OF MARCH 31, 1983 1/
Loan No. 1344:  Second Highway Project:  US$10.0 million loan of December 31,
1976. Effective Date: October 11, 1977. Closing Date:
April 30, 1984.
The project has had considerable delays uue to contractual dispute,
and financial problems experienced by the contractor.  In view of the
contractor's serious liquidity problems, the contractor forfeited the contract
and the Government rebid the outstanding works under arrangements satisfactory
to the Bank and the Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development. Following
award of contract, work was restarted on the remaining construction for the
Nicosia-Limassol road, total completion of which (75 km.) is estimated by
February 1984 with partial completion and use by traffic of 37.5 km. by June
1983.
Loan No. 1483: Pitsilia Integrated Rural Development Project: US$lU.0
million loan of August 18, 1977. Effective Date: November 7,
1977. Closing Date: June 30, 194.
Overall implementation of project works is proceeding
satisfactorily. Construction of the Xyliatos Dam and the irrigation ponds is
underway, with about half of the ponds already completed. Health facilities
and village streets are essentially completed, and work is progressing on farm
roads, on-farm water distribution systems, and land conservation,
consolidation and rehabilitation. However, due to delays in project
commencement, the project is not expected to be completed before the original
closing date of June 30, 1983. Accordingly, the Government has requested and
the Bank has agreed to an extension of the closing date by one year to June
30, 1984.
Loan No. 1540: Second Ports Project; US$8.5 million loan of April 12, 197b.
Effective Date: August 11, 1978. Closing Date: December 31,
1983
The contract for the main civil works component involving
construction of quays at Limassol has been awarded and construction work is
1/  These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems that are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



- 28 -
ANNEX II
(Page 4 of 4)
underway after initial delays. OveraLl progress is satisfactory, and
substantial progress toward project completion has been accomplished. The
closing date has been extended to December 31, 1983 to allow additional time
for completion of all Bank-financed project components.
Loan No. 1658: Vasilikos-Pendaskinos Project for Water Resources
Development: US$11.0 million loan of February 12, 1979.
Effective Date: July 16, 1979. Closing Date: December 31,
1985.
Although the project suffered initial delays due to slow progress in
appointment of consultants and recruitment of staff, implementation is now
proceeding satisfactorily. Contracts for dam construction have been awarded
and construction work is expected to start shortly.
Loan No. 1744: Third Cyprus Development Bank Project: US$5.0 million loan of
July 5, 1979. Effective Date: November 30, 1979. closing
Date: June 30, 1983.
The management and staff of CDB have developed a good project
appraisal and supervision capability, and project implementation continues
smoothly.  The loan for this project has been fully coirLlmitted.
Loan No. 1873:  Power Transmission and Distribution Project:  US$16.0 million
loan of June 25, 1980. Effective Date: November 1I, 1980.
Closing Date:  June 30, 1984.
The project experienced delays in start-up. However, construction of
the transmission line financed under the project is now substantially
completed. Project implementation is proceeding satisfactorily and project
completion is expected by December 1984.
Loan No. 1988: Fruit and Vegetable Export Project: US$14.0 million loan of
May 15, 1981.  Effective Date:  August 26, 1981.  Closing
Date: June 30, 1986.
Project implementation is proceeding satisfactorily with the
exception of the continued delay in the components coordinated by the Ministry
of Conmerce and Industry.  Construction work is underway on the model winery
at Limassol.
Loan No. 2128: Third Highway Project: US$12.2 million loan of June 8, 1982.
Effective Date: September 15, 1982. Closing Date: June 30,
1987.
Project implementation is underway and proceeding satisfactorily.



- 29 -
ANNEX III
(Page 1 of 1)
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
Time taken by country to prepare project:  Two years
Agency which prepared project                  Ministry ot Commaerce and Industry
and Electricity Authority of Cypru--
with assistance from consultants
Project first presented to Bank                1980
First Bank mission to review project        :  1981
Departure of appraisal mission              :  January 1983
Completion of negotiations                     April 18, 1983
Planned date of effectiveness                  September 1983
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
Retroactive financing of up to $300,000 for consultants' services.
Section III: Special Conditions
1. Condition of Effectiveness of EAC Loan:
Government and EAC would take steps satisfactory to the Bank,
including but not limited to a tariff increase, so as to enable EAC to achieve
a rate of return of 5 percent on its revalued assets in 1983 (Para. bl).
2. Measures to be taken by the Government and EAC include:
(a)  Government to furnish to the Bank, by December 31, 1984,
recommendations for energy pricing for the Bank's review and comment
(Para. 49).
(b) Based on actual revenues collected, EAC should achieve a rate of
return on revalued assets of at least 5 percent in 1983 through 1987
and 6 percent thereafter instead of 6 percent in 1983 and thereafter
as stipulated in Loan 1873-CY (para. 61).
(c)  EAC shoula not, without mutual agreement with the Bank, incur any
long-term debt unless its debt service coverage is at least 1.4 times
in 1983 and 1.5 times for each year thereafter, instead of 1.5 times
in 1983 and thereafter as stipulated in Loan 1873-CY (para. 61).



4,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
a



IBRD16999R
A'A 'I:I:
V                                                                     IL; n:                    rIV;v;%wo nd  VI   d I X 
;w V-o z vId
'Tt' I,
;y P
AND                                   floMPROJE                                                                                                                                v n
V     4  9'94N  I
V  7
ANII
A,
'NIAO Ah. IPInI':
J                                                                                                                                      I'T
J-
tysTE4
z 
dVA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                p  
Id I:I =  :  -   = z'        1                                          -
-nvwn';%r                                                                                                                                                                                                 A                   pwiom:
qlqqo YOLT 3MA46,
lanm-% ITZ                                                                                  g,
T111-4,o4       Ow Wap. twy"
V 
T&
vuvw
n.=z QIIN;'U".
OD
ivnIrVN'
Kil. ,l
\0
VV      nd
:o
'21
AVIV,
S I                i4
g, kA 'III                                                                                                       6                                                                          Xxx
'T    :'V                AI    IV'    r   II I
Id:  n    Z  :I  i:
T    U   R       E  y
Z



