圖．R2286。·
Loan Agreement
(Energy Planning and conservatiorl Project)
betveen
】蜜E,PIIBLIC OF CYPRIJS
a nd
INTER｝【ATION^L B^NK FOR REC0NSTRllCTI이얍
＾꾜】釀 聊乙VELOP탬」棚IT
Dated 간＜ ·7 ,1983
…


﻿LOAN NMER 2286 CY
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                 7            1983, between
REPUBLIC  OF  CYPRUS    er      er  called  the   Borrower) and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (here-
inafter called the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist in
the financing of the foreign exchange cost of Parts A, B and C of
the Project, described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by making
the Loan as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Bank has entered into an agreement of even date
herewith with Electricity Authority of Cyprus (hereinafter called
EAC) whereunder the Bank has agreed to make a Loan to EAC in an
amount equivalent to six million six hundred thousand dollars
($6,600,000) in order to assist EAC in the financing of Part D of
the Project; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of
the foregoing, to make the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms
and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Gu r-
rantee Agreements of the Bank, dated October 27, 1980, with the
same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein,
(said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agree-
ments of the Bank being hereinafter called the General Condi-
tions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the term "MCI" means
the Borrower's Ministry of Commerce and Industry.


﻿-2-
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agree-
ment, an amount in various currencies equivalent to three million
six hundred thousand dollars ($3,600,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for expendi-
tures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost ol goods and services required for
Parts A, B and C of the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and services required for Parts A, B and
C of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1987 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee
equivalent to nine thousand dollars ($9,000).
(b) Prior to the dispatch by the Bank of the notice refer-
red to in paragraph (a) of Section 12.03 of the General Condi-
tions, the Borrower shall pay to the Bank the amount of said fee
in such currency or currencies as the Bank shall specify.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commit-
ment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.07. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time at a rate per annum for each Interest Period equal to one
half percent per annum above the Cost of Qualified Borrowings for


﻿- 3 -
the last Semester ending prior to the commencement of such
Interest Period.
(b) As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Dorrower of the Cost of Qualified Bor-
rowings for such Semester.
(c) For purposes of this Section:
(i) "Interest   Period" means   the  six-month  period
commencing on each date specified in Section 2.08
of this Agreement, including the Interest Period
in which this Agreement is signed.
(ii) "Cost" of Qualified Borrowings means the cost,
expressed as a percentage per annum, as reasonably
determined by the Bank, provided that the amount
of $8,520.5 million referred to in (iii) (B)
hereunder shall be reckoned at a cost of 10.93%
per annum.
(iii) "Qualified   Borrowings"  means  (A)  outstanding
borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
1982; and (B) until July 1, 1985, the amount of
$8,520.5 million (representing borrowings of the
Bank between July 1, 1981 and June 30, 1982) less
any part thereof repaid earlier than July 1, 1985.
(iv) "Semester" means the first six months or the
second six months of a calendar year.
Section 2.08. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on May 15 and November 15 in each year.
Section 2.09. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out Parts A, B and C
of the Project, through MCI, with due diligence and efficiency
and in conformity with appropriate administrative, engineering


﻿-4-
and energy practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facLlities, services and other resources required for the
purpose.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in carrying
out Parts A, B and C of the Project, the Borrower shall:
(a) employ,   at  the   Applied  Renewable  Energy  Center
established under Part B.6 of the Project, a qualified and
experienced Project Manager to oversee the implementation of
Parts A, B and C of the Project; and
(b) employ consultants, including an Advisor-Coordinator,
whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank, such consultants to
be selected in accordance with principles and procedures satis-
factory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use
of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or nake
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the
place of use or installation, and for such insurance any indem-
nity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower
to replace or repair such goods.
(b) The Borrower shall cause all goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to be used exclusively
for the purposes of the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their: preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and work and procurement schedules
for Parts A, B and C of the Project, and any material modifica-
tions thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank
shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of Parts A, B and C
of the Project (including the cost thereof and the benefits to be
derived therefrom), to identify the goods and services financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan, and to disclose their use in
Parts A, B and C of the Project; (ii) shall enable the Bank's


﻿-5-
representatives to visit the facilities and construction sites
included in Parts A, B and C of the Project and to examine the
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and any relevant
records a-ad documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Bank at
regular intervals all such information as the Bank shall
reasonably request concerning Parts A, B and C of the Project,
the cost thereof and, where appropriate, the benefits to be
derived therefrom, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan
and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Upon the award by the Borrower of any contract for
goods, works or services to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan, the Bank may publish a description thereof, the name
and nationality of the party to whom the contract was awarded and
the contract price.
(d) Promptly after completion of Parts A, B and C of the
Project, but in any event not later than six months after the
Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose
between the Borrower and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and
furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope and in such detail as
the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial
operation of Parts A, B and C of the Project, the cost thereof
and the benefits derived and to be derived therefrom, the
performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their respective
obligations under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment of
the purposes of the Loan.
Section 3.05. By December 31, 1984 or such later date as the
Bank may agree, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank for its
review and comment the recommendations for future energy pricing
prepared under Part A of the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority
over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of
foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of
such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any
public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any


﻿-6-
external debt, which will or might result in a priority for the
benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the allocation,
realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall,
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no cost
to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower, in
creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make
express provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for
any constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot be
made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of its
political or administrative subdivisions, the Borrower shall
promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on
other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property or
as security for the payment of debt incurred for the purpose of
financing the purchase of such property; and (ii) any lien
arising in the ordinary course of banking transactions and secur-
ing a debt maturing not more than one year after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative sub-
division thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or
operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any such
subdivision, including gold and foreign exchange assets held by
any institution performing the functions of a central bank or
exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for the
Borrower.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained sound accounting practices the
operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of Parts A, B
and C of the Project, of the departments or agencies of the
Borrower responsible for the carrying out thereof.
(b) The Borrower shall: (i) have the accounts referred to
in paragraph (a) of this Section for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not
later than six months     .fter the end of each such year, a


﻿-7-
certified copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
requested; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information
concerning said accounts, records snd expenditures and the audit
thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
TeXmination
Section 5.01. The date T        a   / W3, is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the Generai Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Nicosia
Cyprus
Cable address:                     Telex:
MINFINANCE                         3399
Nicosia
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿-8-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF CYPRUS
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
( Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa


﻿-9-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   fhe table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and the allocation of
amounts of the Loan to each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
(Expressed in
Category                                 Dollar Equivalent)
(1) Equipment and the installation                1,400,000
thereof under Parts A, B and C
of the Project
(2) Consultants' services for Parts A,            1,660,000
B and C of the Project
(3) Staff training                                  315,000
(4) Unallocated                                     225,000
TOTAL    3,600,000
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
(a) expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for
goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
(b) expenditures made prior to the date of this Agreement,
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the
equivalent of $100,000, may be made in respect of Category 2 on
account of expenditures for Part A of the Project made before
that date but after January 1, 1983; or
(c) payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of,
the Borrower on goods or services, or on the importation,
manufacture, procurement or supply thereof.
3.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan set
forth in the second column of the table in paragraph 1 above, if


﻿- 10 -
the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of the Loan
then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to finance
all expenditures in that Category, the Bank may, by notice to the
Borrower, reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to
meet the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then
allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the
Bank are not needed to meet other expenditures.
4.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the pro-
curement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan, and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or
limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the
Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of
the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the
amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is designed to assist the Republic of Cyprus in
the development of a national energy plan and in the promotion of
renewable energy and energy conservation programs.   The Project
consists of the following Parts:
Part A:   Energy Planning
Developing  the  Borrower's   energy  planning  capability,
through, inter alia, the collection and analysis of existing
energy data, in order to prepare a detailed medium-term energy
master plan (including recommendations for future energy pricing)
and a long-term energy plan.
Part B:   Renewable Energy
1.   Carrying out an assessment of the economic potential
and development priorities of renewable energy technologies.
2.   Establishing a national solar and wind resource measur-
ing network, and developing a system to analyze the resource data
and make it available to renewable energy users.
3.   Carrying out a series of solar energy subprojects, in-
cluding:
a.   establishing test facilities to certify the per-
formance of locally-manufactured hot water systems;
b.   undertaking pilot and demonstration projects using
solar energy to heat water in commercial and public buildings and
for industrial purposes;
c.   undertaking studies of passive solar design and
other conservation measures to reduce heating and cooling loads
for buildings;
d.   undertaking pilot and demonstration projects using
solar energy for crop drying and greenhouses; and
e.   assessing the economic potential of solar ponds.


