Do_t of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 6044-GUB
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
GUINEA-BISSAU
POPULATION, HEALTH AND NUTRITION PROJECT
March 27, 1987
Population, Health and Nutrition Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY QUIALE
Currency Unit = Peso
US$1.00 = 700.00 Pesos (NER)'/
Peso = US$.001
1 Million Pesos = US$1429
WRIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISAL YBAR
January 1 - December 31
GLOSSARY OF ACRONYMS
AfDB                      African Development Bank
BNG                       National bank of Guinea-Bissau
DOE                       Directory General of Statistics, Ministry of Plan
EPI                       Expanded Program of Immunization
FARMEDI                  Government Pharmaceutical Purchasing Agency
INEP                     National 'nstitute of Studies and Research
MCH                      Maternal and Child Health
MINSAP                    Ministry of Public Health
MOF                      Ministry of Finance
MOP                      Ministry of Plan
PHC                       Primary Health Care
PIC                      Project Implementation Committee
PMU                      Project Management Unit
UNFPA                    United Nations iund for Population Activities
USB                      Village Health Units (Unidades da Saude de Base)
I/ Projected average exchange rate 1987/1988



- it -
ANNEXES                                                           Pte- No.
1.  Tables Related to Project Cost . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    31
1.1 Summary Accounts Cost Bummary  . . . . . . . . . .. .31
1.2 Project Components by Year . . . . . . .  . . . . . . .    32
1.3 Summary Accounts by Year . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    33
1.4 Sumnwry Accounts by Project Component.  . . . . . . . .    34
2.  Tables Related to the Project Preparation Facility . . . . . .    35
2.1 Analysis by Component  ........... .  . . .         .    35
2.2  Analysis by Sumary Accomt  . . . . . .       ....        36
3.  Summary of Technical Assistance  . ... .....  . . . . .         37
4.  Estimated Schedule of Disbursaients  . ....... . . .. .    38
5. ProjectImplementationCharts  .....   ..........                   39
5.1 Implementation Schedule for Intitutional Dvelopmnt.       39
5.2 Implementation Schedule for Strengthening Health anc.
FamilyPlanningServices  ............. .                   40
6. Selected Documents Availble in the Project File . . . . . . .    41
7.    Map  ..   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   ..  43



FOR OFFMCIAL USE ONLY
STAFF APPRAISAL R PORT
IGUINA-BISSAU
POPULATION, HEALTH AND NUTRITION PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Credit and Project Summary  ..........  . . . . .            .     iii
Definitions  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  vii
I.  INTRODUCTION . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    1
II.  THE POPULATION, HEALTH AND NUTRITION SECTOR  . . . . . . .    I
A.  Population, Health and Nutrition Profile  . . . . . .    1
B.  The Health System . . . . . . . . . .....  . . . .    2
C.  Key Sectoral tosues ..............                         8
D.   Government Strategy for Sector Development  . . . . .   11
E.   The Bank's Role .  . . . . . . . . . . . .    . .. ..     13
III.  THE  PROJKCT    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  13
A.  Project Objectives  . .         . . . . . . . . . . .    13
B.   Summary Description . . .      . .   . . .  .  .   . .  ...   14
C.   Detailed Project Description   . . . . . .  . . . .   15
Part A:  Institutional Develqpment  . . . . . . . . .   15
Part B: Strengthening Health and
Family Planning Services . . . . . . . . . .   20
IV.  PRJECT COSTS AND FINANCING   .       .  .  . . .   .  . .  ..   * .  22
V.  PROJRCT IMPLEENTATION . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   25
VI.  PROJECT  BENEFITS AND RISKS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   28
VII. AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOIMENDATIONS . . . . . . .   29
This report is based on the findings of an IDA mission which visited Guinea-
Bissau in December 1986. The mission consisted of B. Carlson (Mission
Leader); D. Mahar (Reonomist); B. Orr (Operations Analyst); R. Rosenberg
(Consultant, Economist); S. Foster (Consultant, Pharmaceutical Specialist);
and S. Block (Consultant, Economist).
This document has a restricted distribution and mnay be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- iv -
personnel at all levels. Throi-3h improvements in the
sector's institutional framework, the project is
expected to provide the basis for more extensive service
delivery interventions in the future.
Risks:              The project has two main risks.  As the first PHN
project in Guinea-Bissau it may encounter implementation
difficulties due to the inexperience of MINSAP personnel
in executing major structural reforms. This is
particularly true for cost recovery, which is a new
venture for MINSAP. This risk would be minimized
through the provision of tecbhical assistance and in-
service training to key implementing departments
throughout the project period. Regarding cost recovery,
the risk would be minimized through the detailed study
of appropriate cost recovery measures and implementation
approaches during the project preparation period. The
second risk relates to the availability of foreign
exchange for the critical import requirements of the
health sector, in the absence of which MINSA' would be
unable to sustain service delivery improvements achieved
under the project. In this regard, the structural
adjustment measures which the Government is undertaking
should ease the internal and external financial
imbalances restricting foreign exchange availability.
The Government has also provided assurances that it will
continue to place the highest priority on addressing the
health sector's needs.  Finally, both the Government and
MINSAP are firmly committed to the project, including
the implementation of cost recovery measures and overall
improvement in sector financial management.



- iii -
9MMA1-h88AU
STAff APFiU1:UIREPOWI
CIIT AND PRWTSTY
Borrower:           Republic of Guinea-Bissau
Beneficiary:        Ministry of Putlic Health
Amount:             SDR 3.4 million (US$4.2 million equivalent)
Terms:              Standard
Project
ObJectives:         The proposed project has two basic objectives:
(a)  to improve the institutional capabilities of
the Ministry of Public Health (MINSAP) in
planning, management and finance; and
(b)  to strengthen the delivery of health and family
planning services, especially at the rural health
center level.
Benefits:           The proposed project would strengthen the institutional
capabilities of the MINSAP by (a) improving MINSAP
organization; (b) creating a management inforcation
system; (c) strengthening drug system management; (d)
developing and implementing supervision methods; (e)
introducing rational financial planning and assisting
MINSAP to implement effective cost recovery measures;
(f) supporting the development and comnication of
needed PHN policies and programs; and (g) improving data
collection and analysis. Over time, these improvements
would enable MINSAP to mor effectively and efficiently
plan and manage PHN service delivery. The project would
improve the quality and efficiency of primary health
care by (a) providing basic equipment and essentlal
inputs to rural services, which cover 85 percent of the
population; (b) rehabilitatinr selected health centers;
and (c) providing in-service training to health



Estimated ProJect Costs:a/
Local     Foreign    Total
------US$ Million…
A.   INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMRNT                0.05         1.07      1.12
B.   STRENGTHENING HEALTH AND
FAMILY PLANNING SERVICES                 0.11         1.54      1.65
C.   PROJECT MANAGEMENT                       0.02         0.27      0.29
D.   FINANCING OF PPF                         0.05         0.92      0.97
TOTAL BASELINE COSTS                          0.23         3.80      4.03
Physical Contingencies                   0.00         0.16      0.16
Price Contingencies                      0.06         0.16      0.22
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                           0.29         4.12      4.41
Financing Plan:
Local     Foreign    Total
-----US$ Million---
IDA                                           0.1          4.1      4.2
Government                                    0.2          0.0      0.2
TOTAL                                    0.3          4.1      4.4
a/   Note:  Totals may not add up due to rounding.  Estimated project
costs are net of taxes and duties from which the project would be
exempt.



- vi -
Estimated Disbursements,:
FY88      FY89      FY90      FY91
-----US$ Million----
Annual                              1.7        1.0       1.0        0.5
Cumulative                           1.7       2.7       3.7        4.2
Rate of Return:                Not applicable
Project Completion Date:       September 30, 1990
Map:                           IBRD 20113



- vii -
DEFI.4ITIONS
Adult Literacy Rate:          The percentage of persons aged 15 and over who
can read and write.
Child Death xate:             The number of deaths among children 1-4 years
of age per 1,000 children in the sam age
group in a given year.
Crude Birth Rate:             The number of live births per year per 1,000
people in a given year.
Crude Death Rate:             The number of deaths per year per 1,000 people
i a given year.
Incidence Rate:               The number of persons contracting a disease in
a population during a specified period of
time. Usually expressed as the number of
cases per 1,000 persons.
Infant Mortality Rate:        The number of deaths of infants under 1 year
of age In a given year per 1,000 live births
during the same year.
Life Expectancy at Birth:     Number of years a newborn child would live If
subject to the mortality ris)s prevailing for
the cross-section of population at time of
birth.
Maternal Morbidity Rate:      The number of mAternal deaths per 100,000 live
births in a given year attributable to
pregnancy and childbearing complications.
Morbidity:                    The frequency of disease and illness in a
population.
Rate of Natural Increase:     Difference between crude birth and crude death
rates; usually expressed as a percentage of
the total population in a given year.
Total Fertility Rate:         The average number of children that would be
born alive to a woman during her lifetime if
she were to pass through her childbearing
years conforming to the age-specific fertility
rates of a given year; serves as an estimate
of average number of children per family.



I. INThODUCTION
1.01      Guinea-Bissau is one of the poorest countries in Sub-Saharan
Africa, with an estimated per capita income of less than US$180. The
economy is characterized by a large ttaditional sector producing primarily
for self-consumption. The country's main exports are groundnuts, cashews,
palm kernels, and fish; the total value of exports in l9d5 was US$20.1
million, or 14 percent of GDP. In 1983, the Government embarked upon an
ambitious economic stabdlization program to correct price distortions,
improve terms of trade for the rural sector, and improve efficiency in the
management of public sector finances. By 1985, however, the structural
adjus.ment process had stalled, due primarily to delays in implementing
necessary institutional reforms. The Government deficit had risen to 36
percent of GDP and the current account deficit to 30 percent of GDP. This
ongoing economic turmoil has, among other effects, severely constrained
Guinea-Bissau's capacity to import, resulting in chronic shortages of food,
fuel, spare parts, and other goods. The health sector, which depends almost
exclusively on foreign exchange for the procurement of drugs, equipment,
medical consumables, fuel and other basic inputs, has consequently been
unable to provide adequate supplies of these goods throughout the health
system.
1.02      To address the external imbalances and redirect Guinea-Bissau's
economy toward sustainable growth, the Bank has helped the Government design
a program of structural adjustment, in support of substantive Goverrnment
policy initiatives. The Bank and Government havle developed a two-part
lending program for Guinea-Bissau: an extended lending program, including a
structural adjustment credit, and a core program of investments in
infrastructure, institutional support and huan resource development. To
date, Bank involvement in Guinea-Bissau has included technical assistance,
energy, and transportation projects. The proposed population, health and
nutrition project would be the first Bank assistance to the health sector
anid would further the core lending program for human resource development,
while supporting the social sector during the difficult period of structural
adjustment which lies ahead.
II. THE POPULATION, HEALTH AND NUTRITION SECTOR
A. PoDulation. Health and Nutrition Profile
2.01      Reliable data on population, health and nutrition (PHN) stiatus in
Guinea-Bissau are virtually nonexistent. The country has conducted only one
modern census, in 1979, the results of which were never fully analyzed. The
following estimates must therefore be considered very preliminary.
2.02      PODulation Size and Distribution.  Guinea-Bissau's population is
just over 900,000, of which 43 percent are under the age of 15. The country
is still predominantly rural, with 80 percent of the population living in
small villages (tabancas) of just a few hundred inhabitants. The rural
population is dispersed over 36,000 square kilometers of land, one-third of



- 2 -
which is either swamp or waterway, making many villages nearly inaccessible.
Of the urban population, 60 percent live in the capital, Bissau, while the
remainder are in small towns, the largest of which has less than 15,000
inhabitants. Rates of both urban growth and rural-urban migration are
thought to be low.
2.03      Fertility and mortality indicators are unfavorable, even in
comparison with other low-income countries in Sub-Saharan Africa. According
to Bank estimates, life expectancy at birth is 38, while that for the other
low-income countries in Africa averages 45 -- this is a reflection of
Guinea-Bissau's high infant mortality rate of close to 180 per 1,000.
Almost one-third of all children die before reaching the age of five. The
country's crude mortality rate is also quite high at 27 per 1,000, compared
to 18 per 1,000 in the rest of Sub-Saharan Africa. Because of Guinea-
Bissau's high mortality figures, the population growth rate is compartively
low at 1.8 percent, despite a total fertility rate of 6.0 and a crude birth
rate of nearly 47 per thousand. Lack of progress in reducing these high
mortality figures has meant that Guinea-Bissau stands now where most other
low-income African nations were 20 years ago.
2.04      Morbidity and mortality figures, whicl are based solely on data
from the country's hospitals, depict a country which has had little success
in improving health status. According to the Ministry of Public Health
(MINSAP), malaria accounted for 77 percent of all reported communicable
diseases in 1979, and was responsible for nearly half of all deaths. Other
important causes of mortality are measles (22 percent of deaths), diarrheal
disease (16 percent) and tetanus (14 percent). Among the vulnerable group
of children under age five, these diseases exact a higher toll. According
to 1984 estimates, 49 percent of deaths in this group are due to malaria, 36
percent to diarrhea and 15 percent to measles. About 70 percent of the
cases of severe diarrhea reported in 1983 were in the 0-1 year age group.
These data suggest that the priority placed by MINSAP on promotion of
primary health care (PUC) for mothers and children is well Justified.
2.05      Nutrition status in Guinea-Bissau has not been well document d,
and no figures are available on the prevalence of moderate and/or severe
malnutrition. However, the fact that about one-third of all children die
before age five indicates that the existence of a serious nutrition problem
cannot be discounted. The Bank's sector review revealed no overt evidence
of kwashiokor or marasmus. Nevertheless, it did find that prevailing food
habits, such as the lack of adequate weaning foods and cultural taboos, and
problems of food availability may contribute to inadequate nutrition,
especially for pregnant and nursing mothers, and children under five.
B. The Health System
2.06      OrgaLization.  Guinea-Bissau's health system is almost exclusively
public and administered by MINSAP. The only private sector practitioners
are traditional healers and birth attendants. Various foreign non-
governmental organizations (NGOs) assist in the operation of facilities
throughout the system, but no hospital or other facility is owned by any
agency other than MINSAP.



- 3 -
2.07     Organization of 4fNSAP.  Provision of all services is the
responsibility of the Directory General of Public Health, one of two main
departments within MINSAP. Development of human and material resou-ces,
budgeting, and basic support services are provided by the Department of
Administration. There is also a small Studies and Planning Buteau. The
lines of authority are from the Health Minister through the Secretary-
General to the department heads.
2.08      Type and Level of Services.  There are four levels of health
facilities staffed with MINSAP personnel: two national hospitals, four
regional hospitals, 12 sector hospitals, and 122 health centers. There are
also more than 250 village "basic health units" (USB in Portuguese) staffed
with MINSAP-trained village volunteers. Finally, there are four specialized
facilities, operated with international NGO assistance, for the treatment of
tuberculosis, leprosy, mental illness and physical disabilities. Table 1
below indicates the number of each facili'ly and average number of beds.
Table 1 - Inventory of Health Fe4ilities
______-       - - - -                           - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -________________
Type of Facility                        Number          Average
Number of Beds
1. National Hospitals                      2              350
Hospital Tres de Agosto a/
Hospital Simao Mendes b/
2. Regional Hospitals                      4                70
Bafata b/
Bolama bl
Gabu b/
Cacheu (Canchungo Hosp.)
3. Sector Hospitals                        12               20
4. Health Centers                         122                1
5. Village Health Units                   250               --
a/  Original structure (200 beds) currently not in use; judged beyond
repair.
b/  Requires substantial rehabilitation.
2.09      Non-HosaDital Services.  The USBa, each staffed with four volunteer
health agents and two local midwives, are the first level of delivery of
primary health care (PHC). Each USB is designed to serve approximately
1,000 people within a five-mile radius and provides first aid, prenatal
care, and diagnosis/simple reatment of malaria, intestinal parasites,



-4 --
diarrheal disease and other common ailments. For the first six months of
its operation, each USB receives an initial supply of 12 basic drugs from
MINSAP; each family pays a small annual fee to replenish this supply
according to need. USB staff receive training and limited supervision from
MINSAP personnel at the health centers, the first referral level.
2.10      Health centers are ideally staffed with two nurses, an auxiliary
midwife and a laboratory assistant and, depending on the nature and number
of their services, are supplied with 15-70 types of essential drugs. Rach
health center is supposed to serve about 5,000 persons, although the present
distribution reflects a geographic coverage of about 7.000. The health
centers carry out some health education and immunization activities in
addition to diagnosis and prescription for malaria, infectious diseases, and
minor injuries. Some are equipped with beds and offer maternity services.
2.11      Hospital Services.  Sector hospitals are the smallest hospitals,
averaging 20 beds, and serve as a transition point between the health
centers and the hornital sector. Their inpatient care is primarily
obstetrics-related.  Sector hospitals are also an important link in the
supervision of health centers and USBs by higher level MINSAP personnel.
The four regional hospitals, with an average of 70 beds each, vary widely in
the level of services provided. Only one, in Canchungo, is equipped to
offer comprehensive health care although all are supposed to provide
services in general medicine, obstetrics, pediatrics, minor surgery,
radiology, laboratory and pharmaceuticals. Regional hospitals are also
often the site for the regional directories, small units with a core staff
of a regional director, a chief nurse, and a statistician responsible for
administration of PHC services in each region.
2.12      There are also two national hospitals, both located in Bissau.
The two hospitals together account for almost half the total number of
doctors and certified nurses in the country. However, even with this
concentration of health personnel, hospital staffing is inadequate for the
provision of tertiary care. The national hospitals are also in poor
physical condition. The original structure of the Tres de Agosto Hospital
is badly deteriorated and is no longer in use, although smaller satellite
buildings are still functioning with a total of about 100 beds. The other
national hospital, Simao Mendes, with about 350 beds, is in slightly better
condition but still requires rehabilitation. MINSAP plans to transfer the
orthopedics, dentistry, emergency room and laboratory services currently
operating in the Tres de Agosto satellite buildings to new facilities at
Simao Mendes, with financing from the African Development Bank (AfDB). The
anticipated completion date for the new construction is 1990.
2.13      Health Manpower.  There are six types of practicing health
personnel in Guinea-Bissau: physicians. pharmacists, certified nurses,
nurses' aides, auxiliary midwives, and laboratory assistants. No training
capacity exists for personnel above the certified nurse level; thus, all
physicians, pharmacists, nutritionists, and other technical and
administrative personnel must be trained overseas. There are currently 123
physicians in the country, equivalent to a ratio of one doctor per 7,000
population. This ratio exceeds the one doctor per 10,000 population ratio



recomended by WHO, although as indicated above, distribution to facilities
outside the capital remains a problem. Eighty-one of the physicians, or 65
percent, are foreign. Another 74 Guineans are undergoing medical training
and are expected to retur' by 1993, although in the past a high percentage
of those trained have not returned to Guinea-Bissau to practice. There are
only three practicing pharmacists in the country at this time, with another
four receiving training.
2.14      Local training of all other personnel takes place at the two
branches of the Escola Tecnica de Quadros de Saude (Technical School of
Health Personnel) in Bissau and Bolama. In July 1984, the two schools
graduated five certified nurses, 14 auxiliary midwives, 66 nurses' aides and
15 laboratory assistants. A new national training center in Bissau, to be
constructed w;'th financing from the AfDB, will replace the two branches of
the Escola Tecnica. A Cuban-supported medical school has recently begun
preparing Guinean physicians and will graduate its first class of 15-25
students in 1993. There are no systematic in-service training programs; the
only opportunity for continuing education is provided by occasional
fellowships for additional overseas training. Table 2 below shows the
current numbers of each type tw PHC personnel, the numbers needed for
recomended staffing of the existing PHC system, and the present unmet need
in each category.
Table 2 - Stock of Primary Health Care Manpower a
Guinea-Bissau (1986)
Type of Personnel              Existing       Recommended bl    Unmet Need
- Physicians c/                   15                70              55
- Nurses                         133              239              106
- Nurses' Aides                  478               247
- Auxiliary Midwives              85               175              90
- Laboratory Assistants           71               141              70
a/   Does not include national hospitals.
b/   To staff existing facilities according to recommended staffing patterns
in the 1976 National Health Plan and the Ten-Year (1984-93) Primary
Health Care Plan.
c/   Nationals only; excludes foreigners.
2.15      Pharmaceuticals.  Although no formal drug policy exists, Guinea-
Bissau has made significant progress in implementing an essential drugs
program in line with World Health Organization (WHO) recommendations.
MINSAP has developed both an Essential Drugs List and a National Formulary,



which is a guide to drug use and dosages. It has also drafted a plan for
improving drug system management in accordance with recommendations
resU'ting from WHO and Government studies of the pharmaceuticals sector.
MINSAP has obtained commitments from UNICRF and WHO for assistance in
implementing much of its drug action plan. Tha proposed IDA-assisted
project would support full implementation, as described in paras. 3.06 -
3.08.
2.16      Procurement is largely through foreign donations, with shortfalls
made up by MINSAP purchases from Farmedi, a parastatal agency which procures
drugs for the Ministries of Public Health, Rural Development and Fisheries,
Education and Defense. The proportion of drugs financed externally has
risen from 48 percent in 1983 to nearly 90 percent in 1986. The primary
sources of support have been the Swedish International Development Agency
(SIDA) and, since 1985, the Essential Drugs Program financed jointly by WHO,
UNICEF, and the Government of Italy; support from these two alone is over
US$500,000 per year. About US$340,000 was provided in 1986 through an IDA-
financed Reconstruction Import Credit.
2.17      A National Medicines Comm!ssion, coiasisting of about 20 medical
and pharmaceutical personnel, is responsible for establishing norms for drug
selection and utilization. Drug storage and distribution to the public
health facilities is the responsibility of the Central Drug Depository, a
branch of MINSAP, which al-so operates a small pharmacy at the Tres de Agosto
Hospital. There are another two poorly stocked private pharmacies in the
capital and a network of 10 public pharmacies, two in Bissau and one in each
of the remaining eight regions, managed by Farmedi.
2.18      Expenditures and Financin .  Guinea-Bissau's health sector is
financed almost exclusively through allocations from the central budget and
aosistance from bilateral and multilateral donors. In 1985, total public
health expenditure was about GP 925 million, or US$5.8 million (see Table 3,
p. 7). This figure represented a per capita expenditure of about US$6.50.
IS$3.1 million, or 53 percent, was spent on recurrent costs; the development
expenditure budget of US$2.7 million was the equivalent of foreign
assistance to the sector. Only about US$13,000, or less than 0.5 percent of
NINSAP's recurrent budget, was raised through cost recovery measures, which
are at present very limited.
2.19      MINSAP's recurrent budget has fallen in real terms as a proportion
of the national total from 9.5 percent in 1980 to about 7.5 percent in 1986.
This reflects the rapid increase in debt service payments which has reduced
the Government's discretionary budget from US$44.4 million in 1980 to
US$29.3 in 1986. As is clear from Table 3, the Government has c.nsistently
allocated about 10 percent of its discretionary budget to health since 1980,
a level which indicates a strong national commitment to the PHN sector.
Nevertheless, as debt service has grown, the real value of MINSAP
allocations has declined. As a result, in current US dollar terms,
recurrent expenditures were about one-third less in 1986 than in 1980.



7 -
Table 3 - Government and NINSAP Expenditures, 1980-1986
(millions of US  a,t current_price"_4
Recurrent Expenditures              Development Expenditures
iuNSAP /                    HSAP/
National                     National
Year    Government*  MINSAP   (Z)      Government   MINSAP  (Z)
1980     44.4        4.5      10.3       67.9       3.5    5.1
1981     46.0        4.7      10.2       48.6       3.3    6.8
1982     52.9       4.7       9.0        61.2      4.8    7.8
1983     52.6        4.4      8.4        55.9       5.2   %J.3
1984     31.3        3.4      10.6       53.0       6.0   11.3
1985     29.3       3.1       10.5       60.0       2.7    4.5
1986(est)  29.3     2.9       10.0       51.2       2.7    5.4
*Excludes Interest on public debt.
Sources: Mlnsttry of Finance, Ministry of Puhlic Health, and IIRD Staff
estimates.
2.20      Investment Plans.  There are two major investments planned at this
time, both financed by the AfDB: (a) the construction of a health personnel
training center in Bissau, at an estimated cost of US$7 million (pars.
2.14), and (b) new construction and rehabilitation at the Simao Mendes
National Hospital, at an estimated cost of US$4.8 million (para. 2.12).
2.21      Both projects will replace existing facilities that are badly
deteriorated; their incremental recurrent cost implications are expected to
be minimal. The Government also plms to construct 12 health centers with
financing from the United Nations and MANITESE, an NGO. This investment is
Justifiable since the health centers are to be located on remote, poorly
served islands.
2.22      _xternal Assistance.  MINSAP's development budget has been
financed almost exclusively froo foreign assistance and has been allocated
about equally between investments and their associated recurrent costs.
External aid to the health sector has been both substantial and diverse,
totalling almost US$30.0 million over the past decade.  MINSAP's share of
total foreign aid to Guinea-Bissau rose in both real and percentage terms in
the early part of the decade, from US$3.5 million, or 5.1 percent of the
total, in 1980 to US$6.0 million, or 11.3 percent, in 1984. However, the
1985 level of external aid for health, US02.7 million, was equivalent to
only 4.5 percent of the national total. This drop reflects various factors:
the completion of various long-term investment projects, such as the
Chinese-financed hospital in Canchungo; the decline in availability of
external financing for the social sectors; and Government decisions to
stress investments in agriculture, fishing, and forestry during the recent
period of economic austerity.



- 8 -
2.23      More than half of the foreign assistance to PHN activities has
been directed towards primary health care activities, principally for the
construction of health centers and sector hospitals, and the provision of
technical assistance, equipment, drugs, and miscellaneous supplies. The
balance hpq mainly been used to finance the construction and rehabilitation
of regiona. and national hospitals. the major multilateral donors are WHO,
UNICEF, and the AfDB; the Governmentui of Sweden, The Netherlands, Denmark
and Italy are the primar-y bilateral Jonors.
C. Key Sectoral Issues
2.24      Four major constraints inhibit the effective delivery of health
care in Guinea-Bissau: (a) lack of management capability within MINSAP,
coupled with an inefficient organizational structure; (b) poor technical and
financial planning and weak policy development, especially hampered by a
lack of data-based analysis; (c) lack of adequate finarcing, caused by a
shrinking national discretionary budget and reduced real allocations to the
health sector, along with chronic shortages of foreign exchange; and (d)
poor performance and low credibility of the present health system, due in
particular to the lack of drugs, other basic inputs and appropriately
qualified personnel.
2.25      Issues of Organization and Managemet.  As currently organized,
MINSAP is not able to effectively manage the technical and financial aspects
of health service delivery. The two major departments are too large, with
administration of all facilities and services, whether hospital-based or
PHC, under the Directory General of Public Health. There is also
insufficient coordination and communication between administrative and
public health personnel, and between personnel at the central, regional, and
local levels, leading to excessive centralization of decision-making. A
related issue is the lack of institutionalized procedures for supervision
throughout tte system, without which even well-conceived policies cannot be
effectivel) implemented.
2.26      Management problems are especially pronounced in the
pharmaceuticals system. External aid, which accounts for the majority of
the country's drug supply (para. 2.16), has been largely uncoordinated and
unplanned, and reflects donor priorities rather than existing needs. The
result is that MINSAP has certain drugs available in excess while others
remain unavailable for months. Drugs purchased from Farmedi (para. 2.16)
are available only at prices two to ten times higher than would be possible
under internaticil campetitive bidding. Storage facilities need
renovation, and distribution is hampered by the lack of adequate supplies --
a health center's three-month supply is typically exhausted within six
weeks. Finally, drug prescription and utilization practices are not
standardized. Assistance from UNICEF and the WHO Essential Drugs Program is
limited to distribution, transportation and cold chain issues only, and is
insufficient to enable MINSAP to implement the remainder of its drug action
plan (para. 2.15).
2.27      Inade luate Planning and Policy Development.  Planning for the
health sector is inhibited by: (a) the lack of reliable data to establish



- 9 -
policies and set program priorities; (b) the lack of a management
information system; and (c) insufficient training of MINSAP personnel in the
areas of planning, management, and supervision. For example, although the
Ministry is well aware that problems of nutrition exist, it is unable to
design appropriate national policies to address thivs issue due to the
absence of satisfactory data and analysis. As a result, it has never
activated the National Nutrition Committee created in recent years. In
addition, analysis of data from the 1979 census and a single-round national
PHN survey are urgently needed to provide even a minimum basis for policy
development.
2.28      The sector also suffers from a lack of financial rationality, due
in large part to inadequate financial management skills at all levels,
particularly at the central Ministry. There is no systematic recording of
health costs, expenditures by facility or program, or type and source of
revenues. Consequently, budgeting is largely based on resource availability
rather than need. Moreover, investment planning has gone forward without
regard for the associated recurrent costs, even as the recurrent budget has
steadily declined in real terms during the recent years of macroeconomic
adjustment. The lack of coordination of external assistance, which is the
equivalent of the development budget for health (para. 2.18), only
reinforces poor investment planning.
2.29      Inadequate Financigg.  As noted in Table 3 (p. 7), financing of
recurrent costs has declined steadily in real terms over the past several
years. This has been due to two factors: a shrinkirt national
discretionary budget and reduced real allocations to the health sector, and
critical shortages of foreign exchange as a result of macroeconomic
imbalances.
2.30      The rising burden of national debt has steadily diminished the
real value of resources available to the health sector from central
Government allocations, despite the Government's efforts to consistently
provide about 10 percent of its total recurrent budget to health. As a
result, the health sector's recurrent budget allocation has dropped from
US$4.7 million in 1981 and 1982 to US$&.9 million in 1986.
2.31      This situation has been aggravated by the chronic shortages of
foreign exchange which the country has experienced for several years.  The
health sector, which depends on hard currency for nearly all of its non--wage
recurrent costs, has thus found itself unable to purchase the amounts of
equipment, medical supplies, vehicles, fuel and drugs needed to provide even
a critical minimal level of care.
2.32      As Guinea-Bissau embarks on a renewed program of s4ructural
adjustment, indications are that these financial constraints will persist.
No improvements in central budget financing for health are foreseen over the
life of the project. In fact, Bank projections indicate that the amount of
central financing will continue to decline in real terms, while foreign
assistance to the sector is likely to remain steady at about US$3 million
per year over the remainder of the decade, excluding IDA assistance for the
proposed projert. As a consequence, MINSAP is confronted with only two



- 10 -
options to increase available resources. These are to increase overall
efficiency and to institute an effective, widely--implemented system of cost
recovery.
2.33      Although cost recovery for health does occur in Guinea- issau, the
current system is extremely limited. Estimates suggest that the total
collected for hospital, laboratory and pharmacy services in 1985 totaled
about GP 2.1 million (US$13,000), or equivalent to less than 0.5 percent of
MINSAP's recurrent budget. Fees bear no relationship to health costs, and
are applied haphazardly. Furthermore, under current practice MINSAP
transfers nearly all fees collected directly to the national treasury,
thereby tending to remove the incentive to collect additional fees. Poor
financial management and control mechanisms and lack of accurate accounting
procedures weaken MINSAP's ability to implement effective cost recovery at
this time.
2.34      As a result of these financial constraints, the system is
characterized by widespread shortages of basic inputs, particularly at
peripheral facilities. However, there would appear to be considerable
potential for imFroving MINSAP's financial situation through increased use
of cost recovery. Preliminary estimates suggest that by the end of the
accade, with an improved cost recovery system in place, at least US$250,000
equivalent per year could be raised. This would equal approximately 15
percent of MINSAP's projected recurrent budget. Beyond 1990, to support
expected further gains in the PHN sector's coverage and service quality,
proceeds from cost recovery will need to increase still further in both
absolute and relative terms. A reasonable medium and longer-term objective
would be for cost recovery to finance all of the sector's non-wage recurrent
costs, which could absorb 30-40 percent of total recurrent costs in a
properly operating system.
2.35      Poor Health System Performance.  Breakdowns in service delivery
occur due to shortfalls in trained personnel in every category but that of
nurses' aides (Table 2, p. 5); lack of vehicles and fuel to enable
supervision on a routine basis; and inadequate financing, resulting in an
acute lack of drugs and supplies at peripheral facilities. Facilities at
all levels of the system are badly deteriorated and lacking in basic
equipment, including the Simao Mendes National Hospital and three of the
four regional hospita&s. The main building of the Tres de Agosto National
Hospital is considered beyond repair. Finally, estimates suggest that at
least 50 percent of the population still lacks access to PHC due to
insufficient numbers of USBs and properly functioning health centers. An
urgent need at present is to increase the efficiency and quality of care
provided at existing fucilities by rehabilitating and re-equipping the 25-30
health centers estimated by MINSAP to be most seriously deteriorated.
2.36      Human resource development is particularly weak.  Not only are
there insufficient numbers of trained Guinean health personnel in nearly
every category, but the quality, consistency, and appropriateness of their
preparation for the actual conditions in Guinea-Bissau are highly
questionable. Physicians have been trained in the Soviet Union, Cuba,
Portugal, Czechoslovakia and others, and have returned to Guinea-Bissau with



- I] -
a wide variety of approaches and techniques. The Escola Tecnica de Quadros
de Saude (para. 2.14), the country's major training facility, lacks books,
laboratories, and audio-visual materials, and the majority of the faculty
has inadequate academic preparation. The absence of an institutionalized
in-service training program prevents systematic skills upgrading or
universal implementation of policies and programs.
2.37      As a result of the service delivery problems noted above, a high
percentage of Guinea-Bissau's population currently does not have access to
adequate health care, as is evident from the high morbidity and mortality
figures described earlier (para. 2.04). Lack of staff, supplies, drugs,
equipment and other basic inputs has undermined public confidence in the
competency of the system. This is especially true at the health centers
which, rather than serving as the first level of referral, are more often
bypassed in favor of the hospitals. Rehabilitation, re-equipment and
adequate staffing of a portion of these centers is needed in order to
provide a prototype for health service delivery at the periphery which can
be replicated in the future, as financing becomes available.
D. Goverment Strategv for Sector Development
2.38      Commitment to PHC.  Since Independence, the Government of Guinea-
Bissau has emphasized support for PHC. In 1976, the Government adopted a
national health plan which called for extensifin of PHC through low cost
technology. More recently, the stated goal of MINSAP's Ten-Year
PHC Plan (1984-93) has been to achieve 80 percent coverage of the population
-- through programs of MCH, immunization, essential drugs and endemic
disease control -- by 1993. Additional signs of support for PHC are that
the Government has consistently allocated 10 percent of the national budget
to the health sector (although as described in para. 2.19 the allocation has
declined in real terms); and that the rural populations in about one-third
of the country have demonstrated support for community-based PHC as
illustrated by the growth of village-based USBs from some 180 in 1984 to
over 250 at present. Furthermore, the international donor community has
provided substantial aid to the health sector with a significant percentage
of assistance allocated to PHC activities (para. 2.23).
2.39      Recogition of Sector Constraints.  Despite this commitment to
PHC, discussion of the Ten-Year Plan at the health sector round table in
February 1986 revealed many weaknesses and constraints, which are discussed
in the previous section (paras. 2.24 to 2.37). The Government recognizes
the need to address the priority problems and has requested support from the
international donor community for MINSAP efforts to strengthen the health
delivery system. Finally, with respect to investment in the sector, the
Government recognizes the need to address the rehabilitation needs of
existing facilities rather than to follow earlier plans for investment in
new facilities.
2.40      Positive-Stes.  As a result of the January 1986 IDA sector
review, the February 1986 donor round table, and ongoing discussions of



- 12 -
issues during project preparation, the Government has already taken a number
of positive actions which would be furthered under the proposed project.
(a) To improve organizational structure, MINSAP has agreed to:
o    establish a planning and evaluation unit under the Secretary
General;
o    transfer responsibility for human resources to a new
Department of Human Resources separate from the Department of
Administration; and
o    create an international affairs unit to monitor external aid.
(b) To improve hospital administration, MINSAP has separated hospital
administration from management of PHC; it is now establishing a
steering committee to manage the two national and four regional
hospitals and to oversee the hospital sector study to be implemented
under the proposed project (para. 3.14).
(c) To improve drug system management, MINSAP has developed a drug
action plan in accordance with WHO guidelines (para. 2.15).
(d) To improve financial Planning, MINSAP has agreed to study health
costs and redesign the cost recovery system (para. 3.11).
(e) To improve service delivery at the periphery, MINSAP has-
o    approved the design and implementation of a rural supervision
model (para. 3.09); and
o    grouped, for organizational and administrative purposes, the
sector hospitals with the health centers to enhance those
hospitals' role as a transition and referral point.
2.41      RemaininA Needs.  The Government's recognition of and willingness
to address the major problems in the health sector are critical to the
process of improving delivery of PHN services. However, the aovernment's
ability to meet its objectives remains hampered by MINSAP's institutional
weaknesses, particularly its lack of managerial, financial, technical and
logistical capabilities. Furthermore, MINSAP is unable to increase
expenditures in the sector, particularly for non-wage recurrent costs, in
view of the overall macroeconomic constraints, including the lack of foreign
exchange and the declining real value of central budget allocations.
Therefore, despite MINSAP's efforts to take critically needed actions, it
must still make a major attempt to address issues of institutional
development and to improve the efficiency of service delivery if it is to
meet its goal of providing 80 percent of the population with access to PHC.
The proposed project has been developed to assist MINSAP in these efforts.



- 13 -
E. The Bank's Role
2.42      The Bank has played a key role in supporting Guinea--Bissau's
economic recovery programs. A total of nine credits totalling US$73.9
million has been made to support and strengtLan the transport sector,
petroleum exploration, and macroeconomic management capability, and to
finance urgently-needed imports. The Bank and Government have developed a
two-part lending program for Guinea-Bissau: (a) a core program of
investment projects in infrastructure, institutional support, and human
resource development; and (b) an extended lending program whose size and
composition over the next few years would be adjusted subject to Government
actions to halt the current economic deterioration.
2.43      Under the proposed support for structural adjustment, the Bank
would provide an additional US$15.0 million to support the Government's
economic recovery program and allow economic activity to expand while reform
measures are implemented. The adjustment program would focus on economic
liberalization measures and reform of public administration and public
enterprises.
2.44      There are several justifications for Bank involvement at the
present time. Thle proposed project would be the Bank's first in Guinea-
Bissau to focus on the PHN sector, and would further the planned core
program for human resource development. In addition, support for the
human/social sectors will be of particular importance during the difficult
adjustment period which lies ahead. Finally, as described in the previous
section (para. 2.40), the Government has begun to take important steps to
address key sector constraints, steps with which the Bank is in full
agreement. Supporting the process of institutional development at this
juncture would lead to long-term improvements in the management and delivery
of primary health care in Guinea-Bissau.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Project 0bFjetives
3.01      The proposed project has two basic objectives, both aimed at
improving overall efficiency and effectiveness in the health sector. These
are:  (a) to support the institutional development of MINSAP and, in
particular, to strengthen its ;lanning, management and finance capabilities;
and (b) to improve the delivery of health and family planning services,
especially at the periphery. Support for service delivery improvements over
the short-term will help raise the quality of care provided throughout the
system, especially at the health center level, while basic institutional
changes are taking root. It is anticipated that the project's focus on
institutional development will eventually enable MINSAP to maintain the
levels of essential services achieved during the project over the longer



- 14 -
term, and will permit more extensive service deJivery interventions at a
later time.
B. Summary Description
3.02      Toward these aims, the proposed project would support a two-part
program as follows:
A.        Institutional Development
A.1       Oranlzation and management would be strengthened through (a)
reorganization and decentralization of MINSAP; (b) introduction of a
comprehensive management information system; (c) implementation of a plan to
improve drug system management; and (d) development, testing and
implementation of procedures for supervision of rural health services. In
support of these actions, the project would provide vehicles, furniture,
equipment, materials, 22 months of technical assistance, four short-term
overseas fellowships, in-service training, supplies, and support for the
costs of travel/per diem.
A.2       Planning andpoicy development capabilities would be enhanced
through (a) introduction of financial planning on a three-year basis and
implementation of effective cost recovery ic-asures; (b) development of
special policy studies in the areas of nutrition, family planning,
determinants of demand for health services, and the role of the hospital
sector; and (c) improvement of basic PHN data through analysis of 1979
census data, implementation of a national sample survey, creation of a data
bank and provision of training in statistics. Toward these aims, the
project would provide vehicles, equipment, materials and supplies, 63 months
of technical assistance, four short-term overseas fellowships, and in-
service training.
B.        Strengthening Health and Family lannin  Services
B.1       Rural health services would be improved by (a) supporting the
eight regional directories in the implementation of effective supervision
procedures and management techniques; (b) rehabilitating 25 health centers
to serve approximately 175,000 persons; and (c) re-equipping and providing a
stock of basic drugs and supplies to all health centers according to need.
Project support would include civil works, furniture, equipment, vehicles,
materials, one month of technical assistance to evaluate and extend the
model developed in Part A, in-service training, medical and other supplies,
salaries for contractual services and travel/per diem.
B.2       Develpmnent of health manpower would be strengthened through the
establishment and institutionalization of an in-service training program to
upgrade skills of health personnel at all levels, especially those involved
in PHC management and delivery, through the provision of four months of
technical assistance, materials, equipment and supplies.



- 15 -
C. Detailed ProJect Description
Part A.   Institutional Develo,ment
A.1       Oranization and Management
3.03      The proposed project would strengthen organization and management
through a series of reforms at the central MINSAP level, which are described
in paras. 3.04-3.09. Actions related to these objectives would account for
about 20 percent of total project costs, which would be allocated toward
provision of vehicles, furniture, equipment, materials, 22 months of
technical assistance, four overseas fellowships, in-service training,
supplies and travel/per diem.
3.04      Reorganization.  The proposed project would help MINSAP to further
improve cost effectiveness and efficiency by addressing the reorganizational
issues outlined above (para. 2.25). Technical assistance under the PPF has
enabled MINSAP to assess the changes needed and to discuss alternative
proposals for reorganization. As a result, MINSAP has already taken
specific steps to improve its organizational structure. The most important
of these are: (a) establishment of a planning and evaluation unit; (b)
separation of hospital administration from management of PHC; (c) transfer
of responsibility for human resources to a new department; and (d) creation
of an international affairs unit. To help execute the MINSAP reorganization
plan, and particularly to strengthen the offices responsible for project
implementation, the project would finance equipment, furniture, vehicles,
materials and technical assistance. Strengthening of reorganization would
also occur through the implementation of other project components,
particularly those concerning impro-ed managerial procedures, introduction
of routine supervision methods and .,citutionalization of in-service
training. During negotiations, the Government gave assurances that the
MINSAP organizational structure would be assessed annually in conjunction
with the Government and Bank review of MINSAP's three-year operational
program and financial plan (para. 3.12).
3.05      Management Information System.  To improve the collection and
utilization of information related to managerial procedures and the delivery
of health services, the project would support the design and implementation
of a management information system (MIS) composed of a number of sub-
systems. The new MIS would improve communication, coordination and
decision-making between administrative and public health personnel and
between the regions and the central MINSAP, thereby helping to address the
problem of excessive centralization (para. 2.25). It would also improve
routine maintenance and logistical procedures to decrease the incidence of
system breakdowns. The project would finance technical assistance to
provide management expertise and to assist in the selection of appropriate
hardware and software. The project would also finance the procurement of
three micro-computers and two short-term overseas fellowships for MINSAP
personnel involved in logistical operations to observe a well-functioning
MIS. Finally, the project would support development of a maintenance
manual.



- 16 -
3.06      Drug System Management.  Although Guinea-Bissau nas already made
significant progress in implementing an essential drugs program, a number of
problems remain. As noted in para. 2.26, drug supplies are inadequate to
meet demand; supplies are calculated as a function of availability from
donors rather than need; and drugs purchased by MINSAP from Farmedi are
often up to 10 times more expensive than the international price. Finally,
due to seriotts shortages of foreign exchange and lack of cost recovery for
drugs, MINSAP has not been able to either increase its own outlays for drugs
(currently at about US$100,000 per year) or undertake international
competitive bidding (ICB). Furthermore, no formal drug policy has yet been
written and approved by the Ministry, a step which is considered essential
to coordinate activities and serve as a long-term guide for the
pharmaceuticals sector.
3.07      In light of this situation, the proposed project would assist
MINSAP to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of drug system management
by aiding implementation of MINSAP's drug action plan. Specifically, the
project would improve selection, procurctent, storage, distribution,
prescription and utilization of drugs in Guinea-Bissau by:
(a) introducing modern, effective inventory control procedures at the
Central Drug Depository (CDD) through provision of hardware and software for
creation of a database, and provision of technical assistance and training
of CDD staff in stock management and computer utilization;
(b) introducing direct procurement of drugs by MINSAP using ICB
through the provision of an initial US$50,000 in foreign exchange for
emergency drug procurement financed under the project preparation facility,
followed by two short-term overseas fellowships and in-service training for
K.-"SAP personnel in specialized ICB practices for drugs;
(c) standardizing prescription and utilization practices throughout
the health system through the provision of educational materials, including
journals, radio messages and posters, and the development of a regular in-
service training program for prescribing health personnel (both physicians
and nurses);
(d) improving procediures for dispensing drugs through the provision of
various experimental dispensation materials and workshops to evaluate and
teach new methods; and
(e) expanding the knowledge and familiarity of health system personnel
with current essential drugs policy through publication and distribution of
the current draft National Formulary (para. 2.15) and the development,
publication and circulation of a National Treatment Guide covering diagnosis
of common illnesses and their appropriate treatments.
3.08      Activities under this component would complement efforts supported
iy WHO, the Government of Italy, and UNICEP to upgrade storage facilities,
improve drug distribution and transportation, and strengthen the cold chain.
Drug financing and management is expected to benefit as well from the



- 17 -
introduction of cost recovery measures, described in para. 3.11. The
Government has developed an implementation plan for the actions detailed in
para. 3.07, including specifics on implementation responsibilities and a
detailed timetable. During negotiations, the Government gave assurances
that a drug policy would be formally approved by March 31, 1988.
3.09      Model for rural supervision.  At present, MINSAP is in need of a
management program to conduct routine supervision of rural facilities and
personnel. Without such a system, communication between the central,
regional, and local levels is infrequent and often ineffective at improving
service delivery problems. Furthermore, regular, on-going supervision is
essential to the widespread implementation of policies developed by MINSAP
technical specialists, whether in pharmaceuticals, nutritIon, family
planning, or other areas. To address this deficiency, the proposed project
would assist MINSAP to develop, test, and implement a model rural
suparvision system in the Bafata region and the Sonaco area of Gabu region.
The model would involve two regional directories, one sector hospital,
twenty health centers and approximately 30 health personnel. Another eight
staff at the central level would participate in the design, implementation
and evaluation of the model. Once designed, tested and refined in the
project's preparation phase, the new procedures would be instituted
throughout the systea by means of national and regional workshops. The
project would provide furniture, office and medical equipment, vehicles,
materials, technical assistance and operating costs incurred during the
development and execution of the rural supervision model, which is expected
to take approximately one year. Evaluation and gradual adaptation of the
model for the other seven regions would occur as part of the annual review
process described in para. 3.17.
A.2 Planning and Policy Development
3.10      As described in paras. 2.27 - 2.28, MINSAP is unable to design
effective policies or conduct rational sector planning due to (a) lack of
accurate financial planning and management skills; (b) lack of important
basic PHN data; and (c) lack of specialized data to assist in formulating
policies, e.g., in nutrition and family planning. The project would
consequently provide about 30 percent of total project costs for the
enhancement of planning and policy development capabilities, including
improved data collection and analysis; special policy studies; a detailed
examination of current health costs and potential cost recovery schemes; and
the introduction of financial planning on a three-year, rolling beis.
These aims would be met through the provision of vehicles, equipment,
materials, 63 months of technical assistance, four overseas fellowhips,
inservice training, supplies and travel/per diem.
3.11      Health Finance and Cost Recovery.  The project would support
MINSAP efforts to address the lack of financial planning and improve
financing of non-wage recurrent costs. The first step in this process is
the implementation of a comprehensive health cost and cost recovery study,
which would examine the current state of health sector finances and the
appropriateness of various cost recovery measures for Guinea-Bissau. Terms



- 18 -
of reference developed during appraisal specify that the study should (a)
determine the fixed and variable costs of each type of health care facility;
(b) project service utilization rates; (c) evaluate a range of related price
policy issues and options; (d) assess the advantages and disadvantages of
alternative payment structures; (e) recoimend the most appropriate choice
for Guinea-Bissau; and (f) devise a strategy for management of funds
collected. MINSAP has already begun the study with assistance under the
PPF, and plans to incorporate the results into its first formal three-year
action and financial plan. During negotiations, the Government gave
assurances that MINSAP would establish by November 30, 1987 a special
account in the National Bank of Guinea-Bissau for the deposit of proceeds
accruing from cost recovery, as is authorized under Presidential Decree No.
51/85 of December 4, 1985, and that MINSAP would retain 100 percent of all
fees collected by means of cost recovery rather than the current practice of
transferring fees to the Ministry of Finance (para. 2.33).
3.12      A parallel effort supported under this component would be the
institutionalization of systematic financial planning for the sector. This
objective would be met through the development of a comprehensive three-year
operational program supported by a financial plan, which would be updated
annually. The rolling financial plan would include projections of revenue
by source (regular budget allocations, cost recovery, and external
assistance), along with investment and recurrent expenditure requirements
for priority projects and programs. During negotiations, the Government
gave assurances that MINSAP would, as a condition of effectiveness, submit a
first formal three-year action and financial plan (1988-90), acceptable to
the Bank, which incorporates the results of the health cost and cost
recovery study. The Government also provided assurances that it would (a)
conduct an annual review with the Bank in October of each year during the
project period on the rolling three-year plan, and on the development and
recurrent budget for the fiscal year immediately following; and (b) reach
agreement with IDA on the three-year financial plan before entering into any
new commitments to be financed under the project.
3.13      The project would support the health financing component through
the provision of technical assistance, materials, and supplies. In-service
training would also be provided to central MINSAP and local health personnel
in accounting, budgeting and financial management.
3.14      SpecialPolicy Studies.  In light of MINSAP needs for particular
data on which to base issues analysis and to formulate effective policies
and programs (para. 2.27), the project would support a series of specialized
studies. Topics would include, but not be limited to, the following: (a) a
study of the hospital sector, focusing on utilization rates, quality of
care, manpower and investment requirements, physical condition of facilities
and rehabilitation needs, availability of housing for health workers, and
overall costs of the sector; (b) a nutrition study to better determine
nutritional status in Guinea-Bissau, including food choice, preparation
habits, and causality of malnutrition; (c) a family planning study to
develop, test and implement a simple guide for classifying and referring
women according to their level of obstetrical or reproductive risk; (d) a
study of the demand for health services at the health center level, to be



implemented by the National Institute for Studies and Research (INEP). That
study will examine popular perceptions of health center services, most
common services sought, and levels of community support for the health
centers; (e) a study to evaluate the energy requirements of sector
hospitals, health centers and health personnel's residences and to propose
alternative energy sources; (f) a study to determine transportation needs of
outer islands; and (g) a study of low-cost housing needs for health
personnel assigned to rural facilities.
3.15      ln support of these studies, the project would provide a total of
15 months of technical assistance, two overseas fellowships to observe the
use of a reproductive risk guide, family planning and other materials, ard
n-acessary supplies. In addition, a sum of US$300,000 would be allocated for
the initiation and implementation of activities and programs resulting from
the studies. During negotiations, the Government gave assurances that it
would complete studies related to nutrition by June 30, 1988 and prepare a
national nutrition policy and program by January 1, 1989. The Government
also agreed that new programs anticipated as a result of studies carried out
under this component would be discussed and agreed with IDA prior to
disbursement of funds for their implementation.
3.16      Data Collection and An_ajysis.  The project would assist MINSAP
efforts to develop reliable, up--to-date information on the status of
population, health and nutrition in Guinea-Bissau, information which at
present is severely limited (pares. 2.01 - 2.05) and which inhibits
effective policy development (para. 2.27). The component would be
implemented by the Directory General of Statistics (DGE) in the Ministry of
Plan in cooperation with MINSAP. Project support would include financing a
total of 15 months of technical assistance, training (both in-service and
fellowships), vehicles, equipment, supplies, and travel/per diem.
Activities to be carried out under this component would include:
(a) analysis of the 1979 census and publication of results, for which
the project would provide technical assistance, a short-term
overseas fellowship in data processing, and funds for printing and
disserminating census results;
(b) implementation of a national PHN sample survey, which would begin
with support from the PPF in the project's preparation phase and
be completed by mid-1988; project support would include six all-
terrain vehicles, two micro-computers, other equipment, materials,
and supplies, and technical assistance and training. Three short-
term fellowships would be provided in census mapping, data
processing and micro-computer skills;
(c) (levelopment of a PHN data bank, through the provision of a three--
month overseas fellowship for a data technician and technical
assistance from a data bank information specialist; and
(d)  training of DGE and MINSAP personr-i in statistics through the
piovision of technical assistance. from a public health
statistician and an eight-month overseas fellowship in health



- 20 -
statistics. A total of about 40 personnel will receive in-
service training as part of this activity.
3.17      Annual Review.  The project would be monitored and evaluated by
means of an annual review conducted jointly by the Government and the Bank
in October of each year during the project period. The review would, at a
minimum, examine progress in implementing changes in MINSAP organizational
structure (para. 3.04); rural supervision procedures (para. 3.09);
and cost recovery (para. 3.11). It would also review the three-year
operational program and financial plan (para. 3.12); the development and
recurrent budget for the following fiscal year (para. 3.12); the results of
the special policy studies and potential new programs (para. 3.16); and the
in-service training program (para. 3.25). Additional items could be
included in the review process at the discretion of the Government and/or
the Bank.
Part B. Strengtjeninj Health and Family Planni g Services
3.18      Delivery of basic health and family planning services in Guinea-
Bissau has deteriorated as the economic and financial constraints facing the
country have worsened in recent years. As already described, service
delivery has been particularly affected by the decline in MINSAP financing
of non-wage recurrent costs. MINSAP's institutional weaknesses have further
contributed to poor performance, especially at peripheral facilities, and
have resulted in a loss of public confidence (para. 2.37). In order to
achieve a critical minimal level of services for the 8b percent of Guinea-
Bissau's population who rely on rural facilities, the project would support
an emergency program of investment and operating cost financing,
concentrating particularly on the physical and personnel needs at the health
center level. The project strategy to strengthen health and family planning
services has two major components, towards which about 40 percent of project
costs have been allocated: (a) support for the investment and recurrent
costs of rural health services; and (b) Implementation of an in-service
training program to upgrade skills of health personnel at all levels,
especially these involved in PFM management and delivery. These two parts
of the project strategy would complement more long-term institutional
development being undertaken under Part A of the project, providing a basic
floor for health services and maintaining critically needed care during the
upcoming difficult external adjustment period.
B.1  S§pport for Rural Health Services
3.19      StrengtheqLpl_gegional Directories.  The ret onal directories,
although responsible for administration and supervision of henlth services
in each of Guinea-Bissau's eight regions 1/, are at present unable to
function effectively due primarily to a lack of critical resources. To
strengthen the directories and enhance their managerial capabilities, the
project would provide vehicles, office furniture and equipment, materials,
supplies, technical assistance, in-service training and travel/per diem.
I/   Bafata, Gabu, Biombo, Bolama, Cacheu, Oio, Quinara and Tombali.



- 21 -
Provision of these inputs would also enable the directories to implement
revised supervision procedures developed in a model form under Part A of the
project (para. 3.09).
3.20      Rehabilitation of Selected Health Centers.  At present, about 30
percent of Guinea--Bissau's health centers are in need of physical
rehabilitation; about 25 of the total 122 are so badly deteriorated as to be
unserviceable, a situation which only raises the percentage of the rural
population still lacking access to adequate PBC. To improve efficiency and
raise coverage within the present financial constraints, the project would
support the rehabilitation of the 25 most deteriorated centers, for which a
total of US$500,000 in civil works has been allocated.
3.21      This initial PIN project does not include funds to rehabilitate
hospitals, although several hospitals at the regional and national levels
are, in fact, badly deteriorated (Table 1, p. 3). Funds are instead
allocated to execute a comprehensive study of the hospital sector, including
rehablitation needs (para. 3.14), which would provide data essential to
planning future investments in the sector.
3.22      Health ROMt  would receive a wide range of investment and
operating cost support to improve current service delivery capabilities,
institute more effective communication between the centers and the
responsible regional directories, and improve the ability of health center
personnel to supervise PHC activities at the USBs. Toward these ends, the
project would provide furniture, medical equipment and supplies, in-service
training, and operating costs essential to achieve a replicable Ptandard of
quality care. The support would include about US$500,000 equivalent for the
purchase of essential drugs. As with support to the regional directories
described above, support to the health centers would expand gradually during
the course of the project from initial coverage of about. 50 centers to the
total of 122 by the project's third year.
3.23      It is anticipated that the implementation of cost recovery
measures (para. 3.11), gains in efficiency, and improvements in overall
macroeconomic conditions due to the parallel structural adjustment efforts
would enable MINSAP by the end of the three-year project period to maintain
the improved level of services achieved under the project, which would
include assuming the higher levels of nonwage recurrent costs. As detailed
in para. 5.11, IDA financing of recurrent costs would be limited exclusively
to foreign expenditures, which amount to 90 percent of the total; MINSAP
would finance all local expenditures for recurrent costs. The MINSAP
contribution toward recurrent cost financing is estimated at US$110,000
equivalent.
B.2    Halth  a!ler  Development
3.24      Guinea-Bissau at present is experiencing shortages of almost all
types of health personnel (Table 2, p. 5), another factor which undermines
effective service delivery. However, with the creation of an in-country
medical school, the completion of the new training facility financed by the
AfDB (para. 2.14), and the re'rn of Guineans currently studying abroad,



- 22 --
these deficits are projected to be significantly reduced by 1990 and to
continue declining ther-eafter.
3.25      For these reasons, and to address the current lack of in-service
training opportunities, the project would concentrate its support on the
development of regular in-service training for bealth personnel at all
levels, with the aim of upgrading skills and standardizing clinical practice
in the areas of MCH, epidemiology, family planning, nutrition, drug
prescription/utilization, health and nutrition education, and other areas.
The in-service training would also provide health administration skil:s for
central and regional level personnel, and would provide an effective means
for the introduction of new techniques, policies and programs. For example,
it is anticipated that cost recovery measures will be implemented in large
part via the in--service training structure. An additional benefit resulting
from the training program will be the institutionalization of frequent
contact and communication between the central MINSAP, the regional
directories, and the health centers, an aspect which should aid the
supervision process outlined in para. 3.09. In-service training programs
with 10-30 participants will be held regularly at the national, regional and
local levels, with a total coverage of about 500 health workers. Project
support will include three months of technical assistance, audio-visual
equipment, training materials, supplies, and travel/per diem. This
component is expected to utilize the expertise of foreign physicians and
technical specialists practicing in Guinea-Bissau to provide additional
technical assistance and in-service training on a donated basis. In
conjunction with institutional improvements occurring under Part A of the
project, this component should result in the creation and establishment of a
nationul program of in-service training.
tV. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
4.01      Project  posts.  The total cost of the project is estimated at.
US$4.4 million equivalent, net of taxes and duties, with a foreign exchange
component of US$4.1 million, or 94 percent of total project cost. Table 4
below summarizes the detailed costs, which are presented by component and
by expenditure category in Annex 1, Tables 1 through 4.
4.02      The project's base costs refer to March 1987 prices.  Equipment
and furniture costs are based on lists provided by MINSAP. The average cost
per montb of internationally recruited specialist services is based on
recent recruitment experience in Guinea-Bissau and is reasonable. tlnit
costs for fellowships average US$1,300 per person-month inclusive of
international travel. The project's foreign exchange component has been
calculated as follows:  (a) civil works -- 85%; (b) furniture - 75%; office
and medical equipment - 100%; vehicles - 100%; materials - !v0%; (e) expa-
triate technical assistance - 100%; local consultants - nil; (d} in-service
training - nil; overseas fellowships -- 100%; (e) studies' implementation
funds and pre-investment studies - 90%; (f) project preparation facility -
90%; (g) drugs   100%; and (h) general operating costs -- 90.  Price
contingencies were based on the following assumed annual rates of increase:



- 23 -
Calendar Year                                1987                       1988                      1989                        i990
Local (%)                                   40.0                       25.0                       20.0                       15.0
Foreign (%)                                   3.0                        1.0                        1.0                        1.0
For unforeseen physical contingencies, 10% has been added to the base costs
of civil works, furniture, equipment, materials, vehicles, and consumables.
Table 4 - Pro.ect Cost Summary
(PESO I@0)                    (US11 °O°°                     %STotal
----------------------- -------  -  --------------------    tr           nso
local     foreign      Total       tocal Foreign Total    Eachange    Costs
sw¢guvvr  W:V:rTzT*z  zt.2Xzxvx1x  zr%v  t:trtw: cz:zzzt as-zC2z:    v¢r::zt
. INSlTIUIIOIIAL DEVEIOPRENt
......... .  .   .   .. . .
t.  oiAI011 AND RoANI3ENIET
.. .. . .... .   . .... ....
NINSAP REOCANIlATION                                             4.892 9   155. 684.3   180.565.2    t 0   222.4   229.4             9t        6
SiRENGIHENING NANAGNElNt CAPA9iLtIES                             3,601, 6   t22 616. 0   126t 211.1    5.1   115.2   180.3           97        4
.. .. ....  .....  ....  ....... ..    ....     .....  .. .. -----
4-1tetal ORmatAt8No  AND U    ANACEtENT                               . 8494. S   216 290. 3   2U. 184.9   1l. I  397. 6   409.1        91        10
2. PlANmING AND POtICY DEVELOPEINT
..... ...... .  ........... .........  
NE4tlN tiNANCE/CosT RECOVERY                                        677.6    43. 17. 3    43, 849.0    1. 0    fill    62.           98        2
PolICY StUDIES                                                   11.061     312. 031.    323, 104 .    13. B   4486   4562.4         91        11
DATA COtlECTION 8 ANAtYSIS                                      13.214.2   111879. 9   125?094.1 1tJ.9   19. 8   118.                69        4
... ..... .. ........... .... ... ... .  .. .. *. .. ... .. .... ..... . ...
Siul-otel PLANiNIG AND POtlCY OEVElOP11El1T                        24 959.1   401 68801   492.641.0   35.7   668. t   103.6             95        It
.. . ...... .... ... .... ..... ....... ..... ..I..... .... . ..  .. ..  . ....
Stilol  'a INSTITUT1ONaL  DEVELOPtIENT                                 33453. 5   145,919. 0   719,432.1   416 0 t065. I 1t It  S          96        28
S. SIRENGTHENING HEAIIh AND FARItY PLtANING SERVICES
....... ... . ....". ...................
I. SUPPORT FOR RURAL HEALtH SERVICE5                               55. 825. 3 1.0111717  2 1.132. 98.5    9. 6 1,538.6 8 1.11.          9S       40
2. HEALtt  NANPONER OEVEtOPTENT                                    23, 57. 1      1529.     25. 101.4   33.1       2. 2    35 9          8         I
... .. ... .. . . .......... ...........  ..... .. ....... ........  ........ ........... ...
Sub-total SIRINOTHENING HEtALH AND tInitt PLANING SERVICES             19. 40J.1 1701,100.8  1.18. 103.9  113.4 1.541.0 1,654.4            93        41
C. PROECT  AIAENEIt 11.833. 9   192 259. 4   204. 093.4   IB. 9   214. 1   291. 8                                                          94         1
0. PRNECT PREPARATION FaCititi                                         32. 112.3   845 401.9   81. 54. 2   48 0   922.0   988.0            05        24
..   ...... ........... ........... ............... ....... ...... ... ... .. .  .....  ............. -------
Total BASELINE COSTS                                                    15B6.29  . 6629.341.  2.819.204.1  224. I 3,803.3 4.021.4            94       loO
P"cal Cont leicos                                                      3.084, 4   115.004. 4   118089.1    4.4   164.3   18 8I            91         4
PrIco Cent flnoctos                                                   40. 34.2   110,514. 4   I50.51.6   51.6   151 9   215.5             13         S
...... ...........  . ............... . .......... .......  .........  .........  .......
Total RJECt COSTS                                                       200.210 5 2,1,859 9 3.088. 130.4  286.1 4.125. 5 4.411.6             94       1to
1'"Vtir. stvswscctts e£*Ce**geGsts 84t gtvvvvc gwstvx=srs£ss
4.03             Einaecigg.  The project would be financed by IDA (US$4.2 million
equivalent, or 95 percent of total cost) and the Government (US$0.2 million,
or about five percent of total cost). As Table 5 below indicates, the
aovernment would finance about 10 percent of recurrent costs included in
project cost estimates, specifically local operating costs not requiring
foreign exchange.



- 24 -
Table 5 - Financing Plan
(US$ Million Equivalent)
Summary Account                IDA          Governmeint        Total
Civil Works                            0.47             0.02            0.49
Furniture, Equipment,
Vehicles and Materials               0.56             0.01            0.57
Technical Assistance                   0.58             0.03            0.61
Training                               0.06             0.04            0.10
Drugs and Medical Supplies             0.74             0.00            0.74
Implementation of Studies              0.30             0.00            0.30
Pre-Investment Studies                 0.10             0.00            0.10
Project Preparation Facility           0.97             0.00            0.97
Recurrent Costs                        0.43             0.11            0.54
Total                              4.21             0.21            4.42
4.04      No major incremental recurrent costs are anticipated under the
project as a result of project investments. On the contrary, the project is
specifically designed to avoid increasing the bu&den of recurrent cost
expenditures in the health sector. In order to address the financial
constraints described in paras. 2.29 - 2.34, the project's objective is to
improve efficiency in financial management and planning, while maximizing
use of scarce resources in strengthening the delivery of services. However,
as detailed in paras. 3.22 - 3.23, support for non-incremental recurrent
costs is considered essential to achieve a repliceble standard of quality
care, particularly at the health centers. This support will be particularly
important during the next few years of structural adjustment, during which
the Government's total recurrent budget is expected to decline in real
terms. Thus, even with the Government's commitment to allocate
approximately 10 percent of its budget to MINSAP, the real value of this
allocation will continue to drop. Under these circumstances, the IDA-
assisted project would support an estimated US$1.5 million equivalent ih
recurrent costs, both incremental and non-incremental. MINSAP's
contribution is estimated to be 100 percent of local expenditures for
recurrent costs, or about US$110,000 equivalent. Project support for
recurrent costs will amount to approximately 16 percent of MINSAP's total
recurrent budget during the transitional period of structural adjustment.



- 25 -
The implementation of effective cost recovery measures (para. 3.11) is
projected to enable MINSAP by 1989 to recoup at least the equivalent in
pesos of US$250,000 per year, or approximately 15 percent of MINSAP's
projected recurrent budget. These revenues, in combination with gains in
efficiency achieved under the project and macroeconomic improvements
resulting from structural adjustment, should enable MINSAP to close the gap
in recurrent cost financing as the IDA-assisted project ends.
V. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
5.01      Status of Project Preparation.  An initial advance of US$300,000
under the Project Preparation Facility (PPF) was approved by IDA to finance
a series of studies on organization and management, health finance, the drug
system, training, maintenance of buildings and vehicles, fuel requirements,
rehabilitation of selected health centers, and PHN data needs. The findings
from the studies have been incorporated into the design of the project.
Under the PPF, MINSAP has also taken steps to implement organizational
changes (para. 2.40); drafted terms of reference for major studies;
prepared lists of equipment, furniture, vehicles and drugs; and established
a project management unit staffed with contracted personnel.
5.02      Shortly after appraisal, the Government requested a second advance
under the PPF to expedite the start-up of key project components. These
include the MINSAP reorganization plan; development of the management
information system; implementation of the health cost and cost recovery
study; preparation of the three-year action and financial plan; and critical
elements of the data collection and analysis component. The second advance
totaled US$750,000 and was approved by IDA in March 1987.
5.03     PErJect Management.  MINSAP would be the principal implementing
agency and would have ultimate responsibility for the project. The Ministry
of Plan (MOP), specifically the Directory General of Statistics (DGE), would
implement the PHN data component. The sub-committee linking MINSAP with the
MOP through the DGE would remain the coordinating mechanism for this
component.
5.04      The project would be implemented on a day-to-day basis through the
line units of MINSAP under the coordination of a Project Management Unit
(PMU) responsible to the Minister of Public Health. The PMU, which has been
established under the PPF, would consist of a director, administrative
assistant/bookkeeper, secretary, messenger and driver. The unit would be
responsible for all procurement of goods and contracting of all technical
assistance for the project, as well as the processing of credit withdrawal
applications, and the preparation and submission to IDA of progress reports.
The project would provide equipment, furniture, vehicles, materials,
technical assistance and salary support for the PMU. During negotiations,
the Government gave assurances that it would maintain the PMU during the
project implementation period with functions and staffing acceptable to IDA.
5.05      To facilitate overall project implementation, the Government plans
to establish a Project Implementation Committee (PIC) chaired by the



- 26 -
Secretary General of MINSAP. Other mebers of the PIC would include
officials from the Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Plan, Ministry of Social
Equipment and the National Bank of Guinea-Bissau.
5.06        Tebcijal Assistance  and Fellowships.   The project would finance
approximately 90 months of specialist services. Thb selection and
appointment of consultants would be in accordance with IDA guidelines. A
summary table of technical assistance by component is found in Annex 3. The
project would also finance 25 person-onths of short-term overseas training
for administrators and technicians.
5.07        Site Selection.  All sites involve rehabilitation  of existing
buildings. No new construction requiring additional land acquisition is
anticipated.
5.08        Prourment.  Table 6 suiarizes procuramnt arraneents:
Table 6 - Procurement Method br RxpedituN Category *'
Tot8l
Pro ect element                     CB          LCB      Other   Cost
Civil Works                                       0. 9              0.49
(0.47)            (0.47)
Furniture, Equipment,               0.37                   0.20     0.57
Vehicles and Materials           (0.37)                 (0.19)   (0.56)
Technical Assistance,                                      0.71     0.71
Fellowships and Training                                (0.64)   (0.64)
Drugs and Medical Supplies          0.74                            0.74
(0.74)                          (0.74)
Implementation of Studies                                  0.30     0.30
(0.30)    (0.30)
Pre-Investment Studies                                     0.10     0.10
(0.10)   (0.10)
Project Preparation Facility                               0.97     0.97
(0.97)   (0.97)
Recurrent Costs                     0.15                   0.39     0.54
(0.15)                (0.28)   (0.43)
Total                           1.26          0.49    2.67       4.42
(1.26)       (0.47)   (2.48)    (4.21)
Note: Figures In parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the
Association and include contingencies.
a Costs include physical and price contingencies. Totals way not add due
to rounding.
5.09        Civil Works.  The rehabilitation  of sme 26 health centers is
simple work that would likely cost less then US$76,000 equivalent for any



- 27 -
individual contract and has an aggregate value of approximately US$500,000.
Therefore, MINSAP would award contracts for this work following LCB
procedures acceptable to the Association.
5.10      Goods.  The value of furniture, equipment, vehicles, materials,
drugs and supplies to be procured under the project would be about US$1.6
million equivalent. To the extent possible, MINSAP would group furniture,
equipment, vehicles and drugs for bulk procurement. MINSAP would award
contracts for packages exceeding US$75,000 equivalent on the basis of ICB.
Items which cannot be grouped in bid packages of more than US$75,000 (but in
the aggregate, not exceeding US$300,000 equivalent) would be procured on the
basis of price quotations from at least three reputable suppliers, in
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association.
5.11      IDA Review.  Prior IDA review would be required for all contracts
to be awarded under ICB and all other contracts of US$50,000 equivalent or
more. Contracts falling in these two categories are expected to be about 70
percent of the total estimated value of goods and civil works to be procured
under the project. Other contracts would be subject to selective IDA review
after contract award.
5.12      Disbursements.  The credit would be disbursed against the
following items, net of taxes:
(a) 100 percent of foreign and 40 percent of local
expenditures for civil works;
(b) 100 percent of foreign expenditures for equipment,
furniture, vehicles and materials;
(c) 100 percent of foreign expenditures for technical
assistance and short-term fellowships;
(d) 100 peraent of foreign expenditures for drugs and medical
supplies;
(e) 100 percent of foreign and 40 percent of local expenditures
for operating costs (maintenance of buildings, vehicles and
equipment; non-medical supplies; contractual services; travel
and per diem);
(f) 100 percent of the cost of implementation of activities and
programs resulting from policy studies; and
(g) refinancing of the Project Preparation Facility
advance.
5.13      Withdrawal applications to IDA would be grouped into packages of
at least US$50,000 equivalent and would be fully documented, except for
expenses related to project administration, short-term fellowships, local
training and contracts of less than US$26,000 equivalent. These expenses
ivould be reimbursed against certified Statements of Expenditure, for which



- 28 -
documentation would be retained for review by IDA supervision missions and
by the project auditors. The disbursemert schedule is given in Annex 4.
5.14      Due to the special nature of this first PHN project, especially
its focus on institutional development while supporting provision of a
critical minimal level of health services, the project would be implemented
over a three-year period, with project completion scheduled for September
30, 1990. There is no applicable disbursement profile for this project. In
view of its similiarity to other quick-disbursing projects focused on
institution building, the project has been designed to follow a four-year
disbursement profile. Disbursement over a four-year period is considered
reasonable due to: (a) the limited size and nature of civil works; (b) the
extent of project activities which would already have been completed under
the PPF; (c) the fact that 80 percent of project activities are budgeted for
implementation il the first and second years, and (d) the degree of MINSAP
experience in procurement under other internationally-financed projects.
5.15      Special Account.  To ensure that project funds are readily
available, an amount of US$400,000 would be advanced from the IDA credit and
deposited in a Special Account. This Special Account would be maintained in
U.S. dollars on terms and conditions acceptable to IDA. The Account would
be under the control of MINSAP and wouldt correspond to about four months of
the estimated level of project expenditures.
5.16      Account_g1 _Auditing and Reporttg.  During negotiations, the
Government gave assurances that: (a) the PMU would establish and maintain
separate accounts for all project expenditures, in accordance with sound
accounting practices; (b) project accounts, including the Special Account
and statements of expenditure, would be audited annually by auditors
acceptable to IDA; and (c) certified copies of the accounts and the annual
audit reports would be forwarded to IDA for review within six months after
the end of each fiscal year. Quarterly reports on the progress of
implementation would be submitted to IDA by the PMU following a mutually
agreed-upon format. A project completion report would be submitted to IDA
within six months of the closing date.
VI. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Benefits
6.01      The proposed project would strengthen the institutional
capabilities of MINSAP by (a) improving MINSAP organization; (b) creating a
management information system; (c) strengthening drug system management; (d)
developing and implementing supervision methods; (e) introducing rational
financial planning and assisting MINSAP to implement effective cost recovery
measures; (f) supporting the development and communication of needed PHN
policies and programs; and (g) improving data collection and analysis. Over
time, these improvements would enable MINSAP to more effectively and
efficiently plan and manage PHN service delivery. The project would improve
the quality of service delivery by (a) providing basic equipment and
essential inpirts to rural health services, which cover 85 percent of the



- 29 -
population; (b) rehabilitating selected health centers; and (c) providing
in-service training to health personnel at all levels. Through improvements
in the institutional framework of the sector, the project is expected to
provide the basis for more extensive service delivery interventions in the
future.
B. Risks
6.02      The project has two main risks.  As the first PHN project in
Guinea--Bissau it may encounter implementation difficulties due to the
inexperience of MINSAP personnel in executing major structural reforms.
This is particularly true for cost recovery, which is a new venture for
MINSAP. This risk would be minimized through the provision of technical
assistance and in--service training to key implementing departments
throughout the project period. Regarding cost recovery, the risk would be
minimized through the detailed study of appropriate cost recovery measures
and implementation approaches during the project preparation period. The
second risk relates to the availability of foreign exchange for the critical
import requirements of the health sector, in the absence of which MINSAP
would be unable to sustain service delivery improvements achieved under the
project. In this regard, the structural adjustment measures which the
Government is undertaking should ease the internal and external financial
imbalances restricting foreign exchange availability. The Government has
also provided assurances that it will continue to place the highest priority
on addressing the health sector's needs. Finally, both the Government and
MINSAP are firmly committed to the project, including the implementation of
cost recovery measures and overall improvement in sector financial
management.
VII. AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
A. Agreements
7.01      During negotiations, the Government provided assurances that it
would:
(a) assess the MINSAP organizational structure in conjunction with the
Goverment and Bank review of MINSAP's three-year operational
program and financial plan (para. 3.04).
(b) formally approve a national drug policy by March 31, 1988 (para.
3.08);
(c) have MINSAP establish a special account in the National Bank of
Guinea-Bissau for all proceeds from cost recovery, as authorized
under Presidential Decree No. 51/85 of December 4, 1985, by
November 30, 1987 (para. 3.11);
(d) ensure retention by MINSAP of 100 percent of all fees collected
through cost recovery (para. 3.11);



- 30 -
(e) conduct an annual review with the Bank in October of each year
during the project period on the rolling three-year plan and on
the development and recurrent budget for the following fiscal year
(para. 3.12);
(f) reach agreement with the Bank during the annual review on the
rolling tbree-year plan in order for the Government to enter into
any new commitments to be financed under the project (para. 3.12);
(g) complete studies related to nutrition by June 30, 1988 and prepare
a national nutrition policy and aeZion program by January 1, 1989
(para. 3.15);
(h) maintain the PMU throughout the project implementation period with
functions and staffing acceptable to IDA (para. 5.04); and
(i) submit all accounts and aud:t reports, prepared by independent
auditors, to IDA within six months of the close of each fiscal
year (para. 5.16).
7.02      Condition of Effectiveness.  During negotiations, the Government
agreed that submission of a first formal three-year action and financial
plan (1988-90), acceptable to the Bank, which incorporates the results of
the health cost and cost recovery study (para. 3.12) would be a condition of
effectiveness.
7.03      Condition of Disbursement.  During negotiations, the Government
agreed tnat new activities and programs anticipated as a result of studies
carried out under the planning and policy development component would be
discussed and agreed with IDA prior to disbursement of funds for their
implementation (para. 3.15).
B. Recommendat ion
7.04      Subject to agreement on the above assurances and conditions, a
credit of US$4.2 million equivalent for this project would be recommended.



- 31 -                                   Annex 1
Page 1 of 4
GUIE-BISSAUJ
POPULATION, DEALTI AND NUTRITION PROJECT
Sumary Accounts Cost Swummary
IPESO '000)                 1US$ '0")                   x total
- -_------ ------------*  -  -     -- ----*-----*-*-------- -    fo*n 8a
Local    Vote1o      Total      Local Foreign Total   Esctnga   Costs
1. tmuVESIIuEt COStS
A. tIVit Im$                                                11.0"S. 2   276,102.3  29J,9t0.5  24.4  315.6  420.0           94       IO
U. fUIIITUIt. I6IPIIUNt. VNICLES 6AlU IATE1IA1S
..,............................................_.
FUIITUSE                                                  2.36J.1   20,52.1   22. M.?   3.4   29.3   32.?               90 
OFFICE E99liPt3                                                 -   46,526.1   46526.1             66- et.5 1A         100        2
EOICAtl 1001993T1                                               -   ?4.214.2   14,218.3          0lot.0    0 6.0       100        3
VEHIClES                                                        -   11,   .4   131,16.4       t. 187.6  181.a          10t        5
UATEltALS                                                 2.43Ji;.   62653.6   65I065.2   3.5   89.8   93.0             s6        2
SIb-Total F011U6lS  £IUIPHEUT, VEICLES 8 APEUIAtS            4.8 116    331,200.5  340.@019.2   6.9  416.9   485.?         99       12
.TE .ic  AL SSISTI
FOREICI coNSULTATtS                                                 232.261.4  3"125.4        -  So 4  50. 4           too       14
toCat ConSItiUts                                         14, 14f3               14. 149.3  20. 2          20.2          -
Sub-Total TECHNIiCt ASSISAIlCE                              14,1  .3   3,2664 A       415.   20.2  160.4  560.0            91       14
0. lPttlENElaNTIO  of STUDIES                                1,915.?  203.56t ?   211614. 4   11.3  291.4  302.?           96        f
1........15
Sftill4 9                                                10,518.6           -    10511. 5   IS. I          IS.                    0
ItSEtViCE liTCInin                                       11,9.              -    11,66."    17.1           11.1          -        0
SHOHT-TENt OVtASES                                                   J3M.250.6    IS,21.6    -   53.2   53.2          100        I
S5*-Total 1f111111                                          225.516.4   21,250.6   51,029.2  22.3   53.2   85.5            62        2
F. PRE-lUVElstNl StUOIES                                     2.413.1   63.13?.1   66,210.8   3.5      1.1   94.6          16        I
G. 319111t Of 0 oti 0P191 191 FACILITI                      32. 112.3   6 4101.9  711.114.2  41.0  922.0  966 0            95       24
Total ImEStElT COSTS                                          101. 1f6 I 1.9M.4, 1.? 2.055,193.   144.5 2 1. S 2 931. 0      95       i
it. KCRUENt  COStS
....................._
a. OsS                                                            -  354,065.0       415S.0         505 9  50. 9         100       13
9. CoNSUNULES
........ ........  
RIDiCAt                                                        -   6366.W4   63566.4         -   119.4   119.4        100        3
_ICUDIcIt   8                                                  *16.    10 21. t   109.036 40  125   143J3   15S 6     92        4
S*-Total CUSUdLYES                                          6156.    163.846. 1    192.6902.68   I.5   22.6  21.1         OS        i
...........
VENICtES                                                 6,631.2    1t8,21.5   S5.134.1   1.6   111.9  121.1           92        3
861itl0 5                                                4.452.6   50 .9O.     S.442.3    6 4   12.8   16.2           92        2
tQUIPE1                                                 3.521.4   40.31. 2   43,922.6   S.0  S  1   62.?             92        2
S*b-Tlotal fAISTEEEUlICE                                   ; ;11,I   189 6. 3   184,499.4     21.2  247.4  263.6          92        ;
D.  tot Clt41TDtCItt  SERVICES                             16,B34.21          -     1,384.2  70.3       -   26.3           -        I
E. TRIVEt weD no DlE"                                      13.128.8           -    13.126.8  19. 6      -   19.8           -        S
Total OUCURMIJ   COSTS                                         55,56.6l  101,623.4 i         ,310.3  19.69 1,010.9 1,060.4    93       21
lTtel 9AStINtE COSTS                                           1566 82. 2. Mt. 341.2 2,819.204. 1 224.1 X 3. 3 4. 02. 4        94      100
P"fcal Cst$ suocpos                                           3,064.4   IM 04.4   118.068.t   4.4   164.3  168.1            97        4
P14  Co tlntipe.oio                                           J343.2   110t,14.4   150 61. 6  S1 .   151.9   115.5          13        5
total POJIECT COSTS                                            700.210.5 2,68.95t.63.'66. 9   130.4 2t6.1 4,121.5 4,44l 6      94     -I-
.tU:w,aI: ,.sa,uu3::: ugRsastuouu  stage ausa,ataet:s :,s":a  2:,:a*    *sus,



- 32 -                                     Annex 1
Page 2 of 4
GUINEA-BISSAU
POPULATION, HEALTH AND NUTRITION PROJECT
Project Components by Year
Totals IncIluding Contingecies          Totals Including Contingencies
IPESO lOOOt                            1USS0003
t          2         3       total           t       2      3   Total
*. IPStilUlIOllit bE9ElOPIIEllt                    .:$;;zt.t: stttnt:t as:atz:t.  r:tt,.:t::   5tnt:: ::t::::  t:;rt :SS::t
A  INSTITUTIONAL _ _ EV_ OPI_ENT
t. ORGANIlATION AND 1ANA'4ERENT
u:us*P REORGlIlAfIoU                                            79. 086.2  52,581. t 41.674,7   183.962 0      113.9    69. 4  59 5   262.8
STRENGTHENING  ANAGEfEHNT CAiPA8ItitES                         .68,438.9  41. 613.   27,696.6   137,149. 2     97.8    59.4  39.6   196.8
Sub-Total ORGANIZATIN AND NA%EI1ENT                               148. 145.1 104,1t4. 8  69,31t.4   321,111. 3   211.6   148. 8  99.1   459.6
2. PLANNING ANo POLICY OEVELOPlENT
HEAtHtt FIANCE/COST RECOVERY                                    29. 959.4   0.249.t   8,388.3    48,591.4      42.8    11.8  12.0   66.6
POtiCY STUDIES                                                  t0. 818. 9 f8S, 290.7 76, 353.2   334. 472.9   lO0. 2   261. 6 109. 1  477 8
DATA COttECTION S ANALtSIS                                     111 256 6  11t358.4  11,655.0   134.272.0       t58. 9    16.2   6. 6   191.8
Sob-totel PLIAIING AND POLICY DEVELOPPEUT                         212. 036 9 206,898.6  96,406.6  S15. 342. 3    302.9   295. 5 13?.?   736. 2
Sub-Totol INSTITUTIONAL OEVELOPIET                                   360, 162.0 311,093.8 161,177.9   637,053.S      514.5   444.4 236.8 t, 395.8
S. STRENGTHENING HEALTH AND FANItY PLANNING SERVICES
-  -- - - - - - - -  ------- _ I . .  ... . . I ... ...  ....
1. SUPPORT FOR RURAt HEAtTH SERVICES                              543,920.3 480,100.9 307. 165. 7 1.331. 386. 9  717. 0   685.9 438.8  .901. 7
2. HEtLH fMNAPONER DEVELOPNENi                                      8,457.4  14.412.9  10,96S.6    J3.836.1        12.1    20.6  IS.t    48. 3
S*-Total STRENGTHENING HEALTH AND F^IELY PLANNING SERVICES            552377.8  494.513.8 318, 13t. 4  .36.023.0      169.3   706. 4 454.5 t1950.0
C. PROJECT ttANAGEMENT                                                42,174.6 87,468  78, 2806 3   208,419.8         61.0   125.0  Mt1.8   29t.8
D. PROJECT PREPARATION FACILITY                                     6Stt,574.2          -         -  677,574.2       908.0       -      -  958.0
ToteI PROECT COSTS                                                   t, 632,038. 5 893.096.3 562, 19g. 6 3, OM8 130. 4   2,332.  ; 1,215. 9 803. 34,411. 6
evv:2v:tzSn:z zs-stn  tZ:.eu:,t rg.trawtt.r:: c:t*t   t$gtDt: tnt:  tnt;,:



_ 33 -                                     Annexc 1
Page 3 of 4
GUINEA-BISSAU
POPULATION, HEALTH AND NUTRITION PROJECT
Summary Accounts by Year
Totals Including Wontingerecles          Totals Including Contingancios
IPESO '0003                             (US  I0001
1          2         3        1o01*           t       2      3   total
s:;n;n;t?: ;rnss;:a=  :?:Zrr;: ;a:;;n;;::;   Z:r?;;. ;;fl;;t h;;::  ::::e::
1. INVISTHENI COSTS
A  CIVIt HORNS                                                   176. 369.6 169.*3S. f         -   346, 105.5    252.0   242. 5     -   494.4
B. FURNITURE. E#UIPMENT. VEHICLES AID MATERIALS
---   -- -- --  --- -- -- --        . ..... ... 
FURNIlTURF                                                      9,369.I   9,851.2   8.418..4    27705.1        13 4    14. t  12.1    39.6
OFFICE EQUIPUENT                                               I. ,647.1  19.525.8  16.66?. 6 54.841. 1        26. 6    2?.9  23.F8    78.3
MEDICAt ECUlPRENT                                              29, 338. 0  30,119. 5  21,462.0    8t.520. 1    41. 9    43 9  39. 2   125. 0
VEHIClES                                                      131, 016.4  18,652.5         -   149,868.9      18t.2    28.9      -   214.1
11TERIALtS                                                     29,107.4  24.800.?  22.156.6 *7.264.1           42.4    35.4  32.5   110.4
Sub-Total tURIII URE, tEUIPMENT, VEHICtES  ND11 MATERIAS         218, 019.1 103,756. 6  75.; 365.    39?, 199.8  311.5   148. 2 10?.?   561.4
C. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
FOREtIGN COCSULTANIS                                          212, 159.3 123.619.9  70.819. 5   406.658. 8    303.1   17.1 101. 2   580.9
lOCAt CONSUtiANTS                                              14 1??.?   2.56i 9      612.9    1b. 202.5      21. t     3. S   1.2    26.0
Sub-lotal TECHNICAlt ASSISTANCE                                  226, 937.0 126.t231. 8  It.092.4   424,861.i2    324.2   ;0. 3 102.4    0605.9
D. IfPLEMENIAtl N011 Of51UDIES                                    13,779.0 132.*21,5  C8,210.8   212.411.2         19.?   189.2  94. 6   303. 4
E. TRAINING
SEMINARS                                                        2, 591. 9   1,381. 4   4.455.0    14,440. 3     3. ?    10.    6. 4    20. 6
INSERVICE IRAINING                                              5,062.3   5,501.6   5.C645.2    16209. 1       7.2      1.9   8. 1    23.2
SHORT-TERM OVERSEAS                                            33.435 4          -         -    38,435.4       54.9        -     -    54. 9
Sub-1oIaI TRAINIING                                               46. 0§5.5  12;688.9  10100. 3    69,084.?       66.9    18.4  14. 4    98.1
r  PRE-INVIESTMET STUDIES                                                -  39.126.5  26,484.3    66,210.6a           -    56.8  31.8    94.6
C. REV^PAIMEt OF PROJECI PRtPaRATION FAcility                    617, 14. 2                        E  677574 2   968.0        -          968.0
lotal INVESTNE41 COSTS                                            1,36S8. 834. 4 564, 160. 2 249,662.8 2, 193,441. 4   1, 941. 2   635.4 356.9 3. 133. 5
IL. RECURRlltl COStS
A  DRUGS                                                        140,661.8 141,285. 0 129.S40,6   411.487. 4     200.9   210. 4 185. I  598 4
8. CONSUMADEES
MEDICAt                                                       24.t134  33. 66 2  41. 463.0    "9.231. 6       34.4    48.1  69.2   1tS. 
NONMEOICaL                                                    38,015.1  43. 094. 0  50,661.8 6 13t111,  .     54. 3    81. 6  12. 4   188. 3
Sub-Total CONSISU.AWEES                                          62. 12§. 1 7B, 769. I 92. 120. a   231.0t9. 1   86.8   109.? 131 6   330.0
C. MAliNTENlANCE
ViEHICES                                                      28,346 ?  32.1028  37. 941. t   93.390 8        40 5    46 9  41     133. 4
BUIlDINGS                                                     19. 415 8  20,404. 4  20. 931. 1    60.*51.0    27. 1    29. 1 29 9    66.8
EQUIPMENT                                                     13, 131. 9  16.323.53  18. 643.4    48.304. 8    18 8    23 3  26. 9    69. 0
..... .......... .  ...... ... ..  ..........  ................ .... .....  ...... ..  .. ...  .......
Skt-1o8l MAINIEANCE                                             60,900.2  68.830.?  12. 121.6   202,452.4      86.0    96.3 1039   289.2
0   OCatl COITRACTIUAI SERVICES                                   5.4B0  2   8.65B. I  10,9Oi,0    25,093 4       1.8    12. 4  15. 7    35 8
E. TRAVEL AND PER DltM                                            4,8652. 8   o.e0. t  6.982.8    18,640. a        6.9     9.?  10.0    26.6
total RECtRIlNt  COStS                                              214, 004. 1308. 336. I 312. 342.8   894,683. 0   391. 4   440.6  445. 2 1,2 28. 1
TrolR CCTI3 e 83. a8r9t.    3   r5t6. r t9r. rv3.88   30 t4 tt2, 3 t3.6,2     6tt03.  tttI441
TotoaI PROJEtCl COSTS                                              1, 012, 83B. S 893. 09B. 3 5B2. I9S. 6 3,0B88,IJ0 4   2, 332. 6 1, 215. 9 003. t 4. 411 t
rCrPlrfsttt ttecrr¢ttr turt:w::t  cert:Z29#91  aatatIt traw*gT felt% r::ttta



GUInEA-BISSAU
POPULIATION, HEATH AND NUTRITION PROJECT
Summary Account by ProJect Component
(PESO '000)
JUSt119100B  oZUI,ltwlm
ORGOO     5114100: 1 a    NOEE  twn5 uEatvu  cVIROM1       Will'e PrMI   67E17 CES
97809. O.  a,SnhTtIs    67073! 5)915 32111 sf111675i SRICE    06E16tOUT 5906167                  FACUWTfy     total
tf.nf..... .c.tr....    tl.lltcttn   ,.:.., nn.,:                         n...    cccWcccccn    .cccc
a crni 0111                                                                       -                                        23  0.1            -           -           -         ".
10. 05131.S 16W1O37. VENICES3 SD 5ER3101
67038*1 1q0ip31                                                                                      -                   74. 118.) 3                                     74. 218. 3
7131011                                                    W2. 050             -                                         ?g.24.5-                                       1)1.298.4
59161015                                      g.egg.o~~~~~~~~~------ -    ---------  -------  ---------  -------    ----------  - -----    ----  - ------    ---------
S*b-Ttet. 1091111. EOV3P37. 1161811 010 5712101511           jo,pST&       2&V 4                 20,5WS..3          -       911.3 its.                                       .15.
C. rICmimi ASSIST=oc
1C211015 tSDSOTIUS                                         21.2M.7      P.M181       20321.5 80.123.      1359,PA4        71.019               tM551.0                  392.2M64
taut1  SUITsI                                                                                  X 4.3.?1    91,80.4             -       .5214.140.3
S*'1lo1e1 TISD1CO1 65S1511                                     1.65?    P.28.1          M2W.37.  00.9W.0 4   11.0M08        7.01.9       p.459.2  11L8S.*3,           -   40L 411. ?
a  1lij6737Tic 01 STOICS-                                                               1326. 198,102.3                                                               -   2111,64.4
I 19*15136                                                                                                                                           t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~9wI10 " 
5131663                                                                    981.5            -        -                               9l.1.9            -                 1.M I.
=W-TIMo 1m13wO                                                          tt 4.a5.-                    -    MOO  I                      1 919                               1. M.6 a
51087-7198 P151k.   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~--------- ----------  ------- ------  ------- 10 ........   ..- ... -------  ------ ---------
5o-totla7011 Mt==3I 721.9                                                                      -  0.480.      M M1.0. I                  11.                                9 929.2
v P11-l921STqDf 57w011                                                           -             -                                                      Ito- . 209      -    S.210.0
6. 676376711P  610C4C? 6670050113 FAWliII                                         --                                                                      -   077. 374. 2   577.57T42
Total 1171T677 COSTS                                            Ill.0an2    59104.4I       41.SW.0 3M  M 33    at.663. 9     4962M.2I      Ml.446.   t15411.8   871.514.2 2155.9113.8
5. cmJ1Eus
cmcm  ~ ~ ~   ~      ~     ~      ~     ~      ~    ~     --                                 -      835984                                          O&SOO0.5.4
~~~~~ornl                                   0,1)3~~~~~~~~~~~~a s. 5  1.0185  XM7.   S. 53. 4  06710.3    ?9.0)0.0     1.813.     2a.9. I                lo, 031. a
sa..ttot.  Ca06 =1ES                                          a .121.)     3.011.       ?.21. 3   .51.4      1"711.)       12062. 4     11,003.    43.000).                1.8
""gigs                                                    14474..                                           15.746      32.7)091-    7.151.9                               in313.?
003im~                                                                                              -                   1.41.)-  Co.S                                   55442.3
.... .72.0. ........ 3 4 . ......    .....     ... . 0.....  ----------  -  -----    ------      -  -----    ....  2..
WIcial 93iwi                                 ~~~~~30. 071.4  1.45. 0          -         -     9co1. 9      C&71.5             -      . "I. 9          -   18141.)
0. to=  59110010   USICES                                                                     -        --                  12.633            -    5.21.?             -      319.30   00
I  am   M  own01   clip 01                                                       :                     :       311.         0. 35.3          -     2.13.4                  Tx1375.
ltoil 60001370015W'                                               I 21.70     S1. 45.)      2.2.   9.451.4    30.010"2       65,121.3       1.003.3   ML 331. 8          -   "U 31*.
Iolt) 86311   COSWTS                                             t0.W so      120V27. 7     43,869. 0323.78`6.?   125.ON..I   1. 132.095.5   M25.1014  204,.M3,4   P1.74.SM2 2. 09. 286. 1   C)
mpsIcoI  ot   *M                                               '9.6701 I     2072.1         221.0  1.151.?       on1.6      "C0.5095S       NO6.3      306.0           -   119061.   P4
VPW  t"i  tacI@                                          12. 324      0.59.4        2,120.4       IS     IL20S".500.  97. 601. 9   0,S82       4,0OM 4           .   1)0917. 9
Twol?     C?0 COST1S,92.                                                      137,749.2     45. 117.4 34. 42. 9    134.272 0    1. 331. 186.9    33.91M. I" 20411. 8   611,574. 2  3.09GM 136.4
loog tuc%1p                                                   177.59.3    132. 767.3     45,76M.0 322. 042. 9   117,280.9   1,2M..5390    1,8OM.S   193,323.4    6431.49   2.46701.659.



Annex 2
Page I of 2
GUINEA-BISSAU
POPULATION, HEALTH AND NUTRITION PROJECT
Project Preparation Facility
Analysis by Component
US$ '000
Components:                                                     Equivalent
A. Institutional Development
1.  Organization and Management                            310.4
2.  Planning and Policy Development                         435.9
Sub-total (A)                          746.3
B.  Strengthening Health and Family Planning Services
1.  Support for Rural Services                              74.1
2.  Rehabilitation of Selected Health Centers                40.0
3.  Health Manpower Development                              21.9
Sub-total (B)                          136.0
C.  Project Management Unit                                     159.1
Total PPF                            1,041.4 a/
a/ Due to post-appraisal exchange rate adjustments, total differs slightly
from figure appearing in project cost tables, Annex 1.



- 36 -                                Annex 2
Page 2 of 2
GUINEA-BISSAU
POPULATION, HEALTH AND NUTRITION PROJECT
Project Preparation Facility
Analysis by Summary Account
Investment Costs:                                       US$ '000 Equivalent
A.  Civil Works                                       56.0
B.  Furniture, Equipment, Vehicles, Materials        303.8
1.  Furniture                                     12.4
2.  Equipment                                    119.8
3.  Vehicles                                    138.1
4.  Materials                                     33.5
C.  Technical Assistance                             362.4
D.  Training                                          29.7
1.  Inservice                                     10.2
2.  Overseas Fellowships                          19.5
E.  Studies' Implementation                            6.0
Total Investment Costs                                    757.9
Recurrent Costs
A.  Supplies                                          45.6
B. Maintenance                                        52.6
1.  Vehicles                                      32.0
2.  Buildings                                    20.(
3.  Equipment                                       .6
C. Drugs                                              50 *.0
D.  Contractual Services                              10.8
E.  Fuel                                              37.5
F.  Travel/Pe- Diem                                   14.0
G.  Salaries (Project Hanagement Unit)                73.0
Total Recurrent Costs                                     283.5
Total PPF                                               1041).4 a/
e/ Due to post-appraisal exchange rate adiustments, total differs slightly
from figure appearing in project cost tables, Annex 1.



-37-                                                 Annex 3
lag. 1 of 1
POPUTIOU, HAUTO am  WunTI   sO
Sues,of *oc o1¢nl Aemitae
( Person llontho3 
Comoent                             Daoecrtptton                     0      I      Z     3   Total
A. IIETI1UTIEIAL IISVIWEIII
1. Orgaisedtion nd
o  5335*1 fleorgeatton    Spcialstat to eviuate and reorga-             2.5    1.0    1.0   1.0   5.5
nse 1I8UAP nd to avaluato struc-
tural thange
o  Supwrvislon Mdodl        Specialist to doesin nudol aed               1.0                         1.0
provide traini1g in tuplontation
o  Wsaqemnt Inomna-         Specialist to daetsn HIs and select          2.5    2.0   1.0   0.5   6.0
tion Systo              bhardes ond $ oV tware
o  natntenano and           Speciolist to evaluate needs, pro-           2.0    1.5    1.0   1.0    5.5
Lagtitical Systc        pose system, train gad evaluate. siA
to prepare baste intstonance  nmial
o  Drug SysteC              Specialist to assist to quaDt1itte-          1.0    1.0    1.5          3.5
enen4ent                 tion, provtde inventory control
training. end trointri in druge ICD
2. Planning snd Polity
Dovolopont
O  Thiso--oar Plan          Spectolist to analyge finances        e       .5    1.0    1.0   1.0    1.5
and s*soit in drafting threoo-yeat
action and financial Peun
o  SpOcial Policy           1. specialot to ewacino hoopital                   5.0   3.5           6.5
studios                      Sector
2. ti-trttion eoitallst to study           2.0    2.0    1.0           5.0
causality of calinutrition and
determine nutritional otatus
. Family pleatsng specialtit to            1.0    2.0    1.0           *.0
dovolop and tntroduce reproduc-
tive risk guide
1.  specialist to anslyas energy                    1.0   1.0           2.0
needs of ptripheral health
S.  Specialist to onalyse local                    2.0    1.0   1.0    *.0
health center tervieco
6.  5%s,ciatat to evaluate energy                  0.°                  0.S
requilremnts
o  Health Coat and Cost     Specia1lst to tipleoont                      5.0    1.0                 6.0
Recovery Study           copreebnsivoo health coat and coat
rewovery study snd ptovid. training
tn ir.plesantaoionaccountina
o Data
Collect ionlAnelys0s
1979 Cemnus            Spacialist to enalymo date Irog 1979         3.5                        3.5
Analysis             cenraoa
PM SaMIple Sufvoy      Specialst to design and implecot             9.0   11.0                20.0
notional  ample surve, including
training In aus.y cnurhdology
Data Bank Citation     Specialist to destin data benk snd                  2.0                 2.0
provido training
Traintin  in           Specialist to train 51w5AP Ord                      2.0                  L.O
Statistics           Winolatr  of Plan personnsl in
statistics
D. STUIQ1UBilG H T19 AND
FAlILT PlA9IIW  SUVICES
1. Support for tural lhealth
Services                    Specialiet to evaluate and adapt                    1.0         I.0
supervieion mdal
2. Uolib lhmpomar
Iovelopat                   Spaciatiot to evaluete treinitt               3.S   5.0    1.0   1.0  h.5
ued, propose training plan. assist
in national health etratn ttlevie,
and provide ttrinir.g of trainers
Totalo       38.0   33.5  1I.0 *.5   90.0



38-                         Annex 4
Page 1 of I
GUINEA-BISSAU
POPULATION, HEALTH AND NUTRITION PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of DisbursSements
(US$ Million Equivalent)
Fiscal Year/          Disbursement   Cumulated   Cumulated   Undisbursed
Semester             Per Semester    Amount       Percent       Balance
FY88
December 31, 1987a/           1.0            I.ob/      23.8            3.2
June 30, 1988                 0.7            1.7        40.5            2.5
FY89
December 31, 1988             0.5            2.2        52.4            2.0
June 30, 1989                 0.5            2.7        64.3            1.5
FY90
December 31, 1989             0.5            3.2        76.2            1.0
June 30, 1990                 0.5            3.7        88.1            0.5
FY91
December 31, 1990C/           0.3            4.0        95.2            0.2
June 30, 1991d/               0.2            4.2        100.0           0.0
a/ Expected date of effectiveness: October 1, 1987
b/ Includes disbursement from PPF advance
c/  Expected date of project completion:  September 30, 1990
d/ Closing date: June 30, 1991



- 39 -                         Annex 5
Page 1 of 2
GUINEA-BISSAD
POPULATION, HEALTH AND NUTRITION PROJECT
Implementation Schedule for Institutional Development
Pre-Proj.  Year 1   Year 2       Year 3
A. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
STU         IMP
1.  MINSAP Reorganization         o------o o--------- o
STU    IMP
2.  Management Information        o--o o-----o
System
STU         Dv
.  Drug System Management          o--o o-_____-_--
STU IMP
4.  Rural Supervision Model       o--o o--o
B. PLANNING AND POLICY DEVELOPMENT
STU                   IMP
1. *Three-Year Plan               o----o    0--
2. Health Finance and
Cost Recovery
STU
a.  Study Health Costs           o----o
b.  Develop and Implement                o-- - ___           I----- - --… o
Fee Schedule
4. Data Collectton/Analysis
STU   IMP
a. Analysis of 1979 Census o--o o--o
STU         IMP
b.  PHN Sample Survey         o--o o---_ ---------__  -o
STU         II
c.  PHN Data Base Design          o---o  …-- ----------0-- 
d.  Training In Statisttices              --- o
Sep 30   Sep 30      Sep 30   Sep 30
1986     1987        1988     1989
Note:  STU - Submission of etudies for IDA review of findings and
recommendation.
IMP - Implementation of plan of action.



- 40 -
Annex 5
Page 2 of 2
GUINEA-BISSAU
POPULATION, HEALTH AND NUTRITION PROJECT
Implementation Schedule for Strengthening Health
and Family Planning Services
Pre-Proj.  Year 1   Year 2    Year 3
A. SUPPORT FOR RURAL HEALTH
SERVICES                                              IMP
0--L---------- -……           -- o-
B.  HEALTH MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT      STrJ |ij
o o- ----------____-____0
_      _      _     _    ___           .              I         I.1-
Note: STU - Submission of Studies for IDA review of findings and
recommendation.
IMP - Implementation of Plan of Action.



_ 41 -
Annex 6
Page 1 of 2
GUINEA-BISSAU
POPULATION, HEALTH AND NUTRITION PROJECT
Selected Documents Available in the Project File
A.   Reports and Studies Related to the Sector
1.   Examen de l'Utilisation des Ressources Sanitaires  pour les Soins de
Sante Primaire, MINSAP and WHO, Bissau, October 1983 (Revised March
1985).
2.   Basic Needs Assessment - Guinea-Bissau, Rapport Final, Landing Savane,
UNFPA, Geneva, 1983.
3.   Appraisal Report, Training and Health Service Management Project,
Republic of Guinea-Bissau, African Development Bank, Abidjan, November
1981.
4.   Priorities and Recommendations to the African Development Bank for
Investment in the Health Sector in Guinea-Bissau, Health Policy
Institute, Boston University School of Medicine, Boston, July 1981.
5.   Guinea-Bissau PHN Sector Memo, World Bank (PHND2), February 1987.
6.   Consulta Sectorial Sobre a Saude, Final Communique, MINSAP, Bissau,
February 1986 (Report on Health Sector Roundtable).
B.   Reports and Studies Related to the Project
1.   Travel Report Summary, Visit to Guinea-Bissau, Gerald Moore, WHO,
Geneva, December 1985 (Evaluation of Joint WHO-UNICEF-Italy Essential
Drugs Program).
2.   Report on a Mission to Guinea-Bissau 7-13 September 1986, Martin
Vaessen, Institute for Resource Development, Westinghouse, October
1986. Consultant's Report on PHN Sample Survey Feasibility.
3.   Relatorio Final da Consultoria para Reorganizacao do Ministerio da
Saude Publica de Guinea-Bissau, David Boianovsky, September 1986.
4.   Projecto "Populacao, Saude e Nutricao" Relatorio do Estudo sobre a
Situacao Financeira, Fernando Rezende, Bissau, September 1986.
5.   Projecto "Populacao, Saude e Nutricao", Direccao da Unidade de
Gerencia, Plano de Implementacao, Lawrence Smith, Bissau, October
1986.



- 42 -
Annex 6
Page 2 of 2
6. Projecto 'Populacao, Saude e Nutricao," Relatorio da Consultoria para
Analisar os Recursos Humanos e Programar o Educacao Continuada,
Francisco Yepes, Bissau, December 1986.
7. Projecto "Populacao, Saude e Nutricao," Relatorio do Estudo Sobre a
Orcamentacao Material, Felipe Ohana, Bissau, September 1986.
8. Proposal for Improving Drug Supply in Guinea-Bissau, Susan D. Foster,
WHO/DAP, Geneva, December 1986.
9. Terms of Reference for Health Cost and Cost Recovery Study in
Guinea-Bissau, Steven Block, Abt Associates, Inc., Cambridge, MA,
December 1986.
10. Projecto "Populacao, Saude e Nutricao," Relatorio Sintese da Missao a
Republica da Guinea-Bissau Sobre Dados Basicos, Custodio Conin,
Director of the Demographic Studies Center of the National Institute
of Statistics of Portugal, Lisbon, Portugal, January 1987.



1610-                                              16j'00'                                              l530.
S                 E                 N                  E                G                 A
C  R   --'_        Jumbemb4
12.00'                                                                                                                                                                        F
To BOAnul
* ~       ~       ,Olja7 ±'                  Prabis,Bi,ene                              te
- \         'I                              oXmr
S~Oomtngos               Sdga1lr
C CosalA I                                           *.ossalo
Susana-r,   Mans /
-   ~     ~                          Bubaq,et%                                     I         obl              0     
E<a  'Petunde               S
ORANGO I       r,vilANGOllNHO   sD  ~      ..      I
Caiequisse     h-                                   oBnr\                                       Mna
OO
rhe  9  eku* s staV exr.vely ~ ~ ~ ~    ~     ~      ~     ~     ~     nhei0-
and the hternatl finance.koLndl 
12100801Rosm 
011ns Conlo Cooai
Bf        t O     M     B teIO1T,te                                  I arry
TieJoba' 
I                        ~~~~~~~~~MAIO                                               oa
endorsernent or ar-u3Dtance ot ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~       ~       ~       ~      ~       ~      ~      lEmad
'CAR,AVf4A I
1110                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Betelr -              FOR!MQ_A I                   ALNHAS                                          Gnu              a
J               I~~~~~NUI                                                  Mdn
4 ,                               BOL  -A  MAMdno801
Bubaque-                                                                     Cu
N          staaovt   A               ~~~~~~~~~0 ifnoret            cTom,b,li
\UNojab,-An-onhe  ~                     IRO XA 
EC.c                                                                     T I          M          CO
~~~~  ~      qCboduo
________________________________                            ~~~~~~ORANGO I                ORANGPZIMHO 
0
Ttks mA has been prepared by
the worled Bants staff ec0t's15,0
for fth convenIence of tam
A   F   R   IC Areadem raais exckmIsn for tmh
and the thlemnatlon  Felance
Co,porabon Tho dwnovnaaon
used and the boLedenes samo.
on) #11. map do not mTy. on) ha
part of The Wob*1 Bar* anl the
#11Ie)St1Ol8 Fewan" Crorwaion,
any judgment on fth lega Statu
Of a-ny tern0oq Or any
endo,arseme or acceptance of
such bowedanest
161                                                 130



IBRD 201 1
15'00'o14'30                                                                       iAOO
G             A              L
ro Dokolr                          To oDakr               To Dakar
Cuntimo              7ba1u                 .SoroOcr         Pirada
i0s /  g               /        I                       J  1b~~~~~ ~~S    -     I                                    I 
Jumbembem                                                             PqunCs ConQuerfe
,,~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~ab                            -                                  P hbunuQ' >"S, ^-$./                            
\ < nconJomborl 8 \ /         .i,Z' # ^ 12,30-
ma                                                                                                                     Burunlto )-  8  \   \/5ff  /    u
Unto0  '~~~~~~~~~~~~~~gntbe
/ Olossal\   I                                              / |  1'ematob_
0-1- _     Monsab6                                tmanoudo       - --                     - -                              j
- /  O--LQ 1                                        Comtudse  Coiu\                                       ' 
E  <  /  c z fakt 6                    J      Cobuca0
>'  Monsca        |     <      ~6        /  &oS '2 ,2    \                       S                  'no
Rossrn      Gorse                                   '>      \b                                                  .?2I,G
terWl    5vGo5en°\tUono Po 't'|     A          A        T    A      Dom                                            p 
nxude                                              bi                                         ,t
T.t                                           Ann i  laud                                         gMadino do Soe                    *WnuLeid- 
"    Q U I  A  R A- =1                                                       /
o /   oSintr /                                                                                         _
.- su, J°Empa                           /  \ u
antuobo o      b
ot o/80roPo/to0  B f/\   (~           T~4       --* /\  '~Dio                   GUINEA-BISSAU                          1
Tt       ± Fu9ve ld  Nhacob                     ,    POPULATION, HEALTH AND NUTRITION PROJECT
,         /.,                              ,b,
~~ )~ ~~ Bedanda        .    
Site of Rurol Health Supervision Model                    Internotional Port
Cufs       )      Geeb/ Go*                                                                                   Main Domestic Ports
^ CaT  o0 <.iembal  e4 ued'Ia t~                               National  Hospitals                   .               *    International Airport
c°n tCdjque                    I j'    Regional Hospitals                                                   t     Other Airports or Airstrips
T        O     M   B      A     L   I  1     j                         Sector Hospital                                    ®      National Capital
C ±.&                                                                                                           Swamps
Cobed-u0       cot;-|t,sstle -e                      . Paved Roads                                                 Mud Fiats
.reco/e                          Unpaved Roads                                    -         Regional Boundanes
*  ca'-pe--ne  /                               Feeder Roads                                               international Boundaries
,.J'
o      1o     20      70      40     '0      s0     70      eC
<iiLCIP.AYERS              s      -
o           10          2           30          60           so
Mi t I S



