Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFMCLAL USE ONLY
Report No. 11759
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
GUINEA-BISSAU
POPULATION, HEALTH AND NUTRITION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1800-GUB)
MARCH 31, 1993
Population and Human Resources Operations Division
Western Africa Department
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



GLOSSARY
DHS         Demographic Health Survey
EEC         European Economic Community
MCH         Maternal and Child Health
MINSAP      Ministry of Public Health
MINSAS      Ministry of Health and Social Affairs
NGO         Non-Governmental Organization
PHC         Primary Health Care
PHN         Population, Health and Nutrition
SDR         Special Drawing Rights
UNFPA       United Nations Fund for Population Activities
UNICEF      United Nations Children's Fund
WHO         World Health Organization



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
March 31, 1993
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT': Project Completion Report on Guinea-Bissau
Population, Health and Nutrition Project (Credit 1800-GUB)
Attached is a copy of the report entitled "Project Completion Report on Guinea-Bissau -
Population, Health and Nutrition Project (Credit 1800-GUB)" prepared by the Africa Regional
Office. Part II was prepared by the Borrower.
The outcome of this project--meant to simultaneously support the institutional development
of the Ministry of Public Health and to strengthen the delivery of health and family planning services-
-was unsatisfactory. Little training and institutional building took place, in part because of failure to
provide counterpart staff, and most health center remodeling had to be cancelled because of
construction delays.
The outcome was conditioned by inadequate preparation, overambitious design, and failure
of the Borrower to provide agreed-to counterpart funds. This project is a good example of excessive
reliance on technical assistance even though some modest improvements in capacity occurred and
lessons learnt are being incorporated into future programs. Many more years of institutional
development will be necessary before sustainable operations are assured.
The Project Completion Report provides an accurate account of project implementation. The
reasons for the failure of this project are well laid out and plans to take them into account in future
operations are noted. An audit is not planned.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization. 






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
GUINEA BISSAU
POPULATION. HEALTH AND NUTRITION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1800-GUB)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface   .  .  .  .  .    .    .    .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  .  .  .    .  .  .  .   .  .  .  .  .
Evaluation Sumiary  ....  .       .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     .   iii
PART I.     PROJECT REVIEW FROM IDA PERSPECTIVE. . . . . .         1
A.  Project Identity . . . . . . . . . . . . .
B.  Project Background . . . . . . . . . . . .
C.  Project Objectives and Description . . . .         2
D.  Project Design, Organization and Management        3
E.  Project Implementation . . . . . . . . . .         4
F. Major Results of the Project . . . . . . .          6
G.  Project Sustainability . . . . . . . . . .         9
H.  IDA Performance. . . . . . . . . . . . . .         9
I.  Borrower Performance . . . . . . . . . . .        10
K.  Project Relationship . . . . . . . . . . .        11
L.  Consulting Services  . . . . . . . . . . .        11
M.  Project Documentation and data . . . . . .        11
PART II.    PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE            13
PART III.   STATISTICAL INFORMATION. . . . . . . . . . . .        17
A.  Related IDA Credits. . . . . . . . . . . .        17
B.  Project Timetable. . . . . . . . . . . . .        17
C.  Credit Disbursements . . . . . . . . . . .        18
D.  Project Implementation . . . . . . . . . .        20
E.  Project Costs and Financing. . . . . . . .        22
F.  Project Results. . . . . . . . . . . . . .        24
G.  Compliance with Covenants  . . . . . . . .       25
H.  Use of IDA Resources . . . . . . . . . . .        27
LIST OF ANNEXES
Annex 1 - Participants in Completion Mission.         29
Annex 2 - Record of Project Quarterly Reports
Submitted. . . . . . . . . . . . .        30
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
GUINEA-BISSAU
POPULATION. HEALTH AND NUTRITION PROJECT
CREDIT 1800-GUB
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the first Population,
Health and Nutrition Project in Guinea-Bissau, for which Credit 1800-GUB in
the amount of SDR 3.4 million (March 1987, US$4.2 million equivalent) was
approved on May 19, 1987. The Credit was closed on December 31, 1991, after
having been extended six months beyond the original date. It was fully
disbursed, and the last disbursement was made on April 9, 1992.
The PCR was prepared by the Population and Human Resources Operations
Division of the Western Africa Department (Preface, Evaluation Suimmary, Parts
I and III) and the Borrower (Part II).
This PCR report was initiated during the last supervision mission for
the project in October 1991. A completion mission was conducted in January,
1992. This PCR is based, inter alia, on the Staff Appraisal Report; the
Development Credit Agreement; supervision reports; correspondence between the
Borrower and IDA; internal IDA memoranda; and interviews with Bank staff
involved with the project.






- iii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
GUINEA-BISSAU
POPULATION, HEALTH AND NUTRITION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1800-GUB)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Prolect Obiectives
i.        The Project's two basic objectives were: (a) to support the
institutional development of the Ministry of Public Health (MINSAP) in
planning, management and finance; and (b) to strengthen the delivery of health
and family planning services, especially at the rural health center level.
The project's near-term focus on improving essential services, combined with
its complementary emphasis on improvements in the institutional framework, was
expected to provide the basis for more extensive service delivery
interventions in the future, toward achieving the Government goal of offering
health services to 80 percent of the population by 1993 -- a challenging goal
that underestimated the capacity of the health system to change and expand
within a relatively short time span.
Implementation Experience
ii.       Following effectiveness in December 1987, project implementation
fell seriously behind schedule due in large part to MINSAP's institutional
weaknesses that had been originally identified as risks. It should also be
noted that the period immediately preceding credit effectiveness and beginning
of implementation coincided with IDA's reorganization which resulted in the
replacement of the entire team for this project; this probably added to the
delays. A major variance between planned and actual project implementation
were large shifts in expenditures from civil works, operating (incremental
recurrent) costs and goods and services, to consultants and fellowships.
Remodeling of 25 rural health centers was not implemented according to the
original design; after an assessment of rehabilitation needs in 1988 it was
found that 10 of the 25 centers identified at appraisal were beyond repair.
Consequently, detailed architectural designs including adaptations to sites
were completed between October, 1988 and 1990 for only 15 centers; in spite of
the smaller number of centers considered for repair, the total cost for
rehabilitating them exceeded by far the original appraised estimates (in 1988
it was estimated that US$1,030,400 would be needed for repairing 15 centers,
compared to the original estimate of $430,000 for 25 centers); this difference
was attributed by the IDA staff and the project management unit to initial
underestimates in unit costs, scope of work, and inflation. In 1990, after
long delays in completing the architectural designs, and when credit funds had



- iv -
already been disbursed for other categories (particularly for category 3 --
technical assistance and training) little credit funds remained for
construction and only two centers were rehabilitated with IDA financing, at a
cost of under $50,000. Other donors were requested to finance rehabilitation
works for about US$1 million (outside this project).
iii.      Regarding other project components, in spite of the heavy use of
consultants in this project and the moderate success in producing studies and
reports, little consultancy related training and institution building took
place due in part to personnel vacancies in the implementing agency and their
non-replacement for periods of over two years. The project director -- a
foreign consultant -- and his staff assumed a main role in implementation and
in communications with IDA. The project management unit performed reasonably
well its functions as handler of communication flow with IDA, but was not as
successful in establishing a good rapport with MINSAP, particularly after a
new minister took over in 1990. Regarding cost control and management of
consultants, neither the management unit, nor MINSAP had a good grasp of the
situation. The lack of Government counterpart funds persisted during project
execution in spite of consistent follow up by IDA staff; at credit closing,
the Government contribution was $61,900 compared to $210,000 required.
Results
iv.       Overall impact of the project was unsatisfactory.  Project
achievements fell short of ambitious appraisal scope and design complexity.
The benefits of components such as technical assistance and provision of
recurrent costs (mostly incremental, but also comprising emergency assistance
during epidemics) were low in relation to their costs. Nevertheless, there
were modest accomplishments in training and human resource development and in
PHN data collection; the project also managed to implement initial actions
towards cost-recovery, better drug system management, improved rural
supervision, and preliminary administrative reform within MINSAP. Because
this project represents the first attempt by any donor in Guinea-Bissau to
assist the health sector as a whole (as opposed to individual projects or
sites), the mentioned contributions are noteworthy.
Sustainabilitv
v.        Because of the low financial base for supporting health services,
the lack of a clear financial plan, the large proportion of funding from
external donors and MINSAP's limited capacity as managing agency for the
sector, this project placed particularly strong emphasis on sustainability
from the outset. Although the sector continues to rely heavily on technical
assistance, the rudiments of an infrastructure are now in place for data
collection and analysis, drug management and supervision of health services,
resulting from training and other activities that took place under this
project. Even so, the health system still lacks the competence for self-
sustainment and growth and will need perhaps at least another decade to reach
a level of adequate financial and technical sustainability. A follow-on
Social Sectors Project will have fewer components and will emphasize capacity



- v -
building and substantially expand the human resource training begun with this
project. The forthcoming project will also focus on technical assistance with
stronger review and with built-in transfer of knowledge to national
counterparts. In addition, it will have a social action fund to assist NGOs
which have a good track record on the country, in developing micro-social
sector projects and better reach those at the grass-root level.
Findinas and Lessons Learned
vi.       The project scope was over-ambitious and it had a complex design.
In the light of institutional weaknesses, IDA showed flexibility and
creativity during implementation. It also pursued persistently and
effectively cooperation with other donors -- particularly WHO and UNICEF.
However, there were some shortcomings, including the following: (a) earlier
identification of the problems affecting the construction component would have
enabled the adoption of alternative solutions for timely and successful civil
works completion; and (b) a tighter control of the technical assistance costs,
early detection of cost overruns, and closer attention to quality and
utilization of consultants could have led to higher effectiveness and lower
costs than achieved in the project.
vii.      Initially the Government took several reassuring steps by
appointing an expatriate Project Director, creating a Project Management Unit,
and giving assurances regarding several changes in policy and organization.
However, there were serious implementation problems when MINSAP allowed key
managerial positions to remain vacant for over two years and the Ministry of
Finance compromised implementation by failing to provide counterpart funds as
agreed. Lessons learned by MINSAP included the need to manage consultancies
properly to obtain effective benefits related to expenditures incurred, and
the importance of assuming responsibility for oversight of the project
management unit.
viii.     The following lessons learned may be applied to future projects:
Project preparation should select implementable key components; construction
components should be properly prepared, although they are usually less
significant than software components in addressing sector issues; although
technical assistance is essential particularly when the capacity of the sector
agencies is low, it should be tailored to the agency's absorptive capacity,
and should be closely supervised; and project management units should help in
institution building and receive close review from the management of the
implementing agency. Further, national counterparts should always be involved
in project preparation and start-up activities and, as much as possible, there
should be continuity or, when staff changes are unavoidable, there should be
well planned and smooth transition of Government counterparts during
implementation.






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
GUINEA-BISSAU
POPULATION. HEALTH AND NUTRITION PROJECT
(Credit 1800-GUB)
PART I.   PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A. Prolect Identity
Project Name:        Population, Health and Nutrition Project
Credit No.:           1800-GUB
Credit Amount:        SDR 3.4 million (March 1987 US$4.2 million)
RVP Unit:            Western Africa Country Department IV
Country:             Republic of Guinea-Bissau
Sector:              Population, Health and Nutrition
B. Proiect Background
1.        Sector Development Obiectives.  At the time of this project's
appraisal, the stated goal of the Ten-Year Primary Health Care Plan 1984-93
under the responsibility of the Ministry of Public Health's (MINSAP) ', was
to reach, by 1993, 80 percent of the population with programs in Maternal and
Child Health (MCH), immunization, essential drugs and endemic disease control.
This was an evidently overambitious target for a country with a per capita
income of less than US$180 and a health system bedeviled by serious
shortcomings. Guinea-Bissau's health system is almost exclusively public and
administered by MINSAP. IDA appraisal identified major constraints including:
lack of full control over the allocation of expenditures (in 1986 over 85
percent of the MINSAP budget and 90 percent of drug procurement came from
foreign assistance); low quality of services mainly due to irregular
availability of medicines and materials at the service points, inadequate
working conditions for the health personnel and uneven geographical
distribution (medical personnel are heavily concentrated in the two national
hospitals, located in the capital city); also, the physical infrastructure was
deteriorated, and there were serious deficiencies in staff training,
supervision, transport and recurrent budget for maintenance. Moreover,
macroeconomic constraints curtailed the options for up-grading health care. A
chronic shortage of foreign exchange and the declining real value of central
budget allocations limited MINSAP funding and made it imperative to seek
further external financial assistance for major restructuring and
strengthening.
' In December 1991, this ministry was renamed the Ministry of Health and
Social Affairs (MINSAS). For purposes of this report. however, the acronym
"MINSAP" will be used.



2.        Policy Context.  At a donors' roundtable in 1986 the Government
acknowledged that in order to increase the likelihood of coming close to the
stated health service goal it would need to restructure the system and make
more cost effective use of the existing infrastructure, rather than extend its
health system through investments in new facilities. It agreed to several
administrative and policy reforms and to improve hospital administration, drug
system management, and financial planning. In view of its inability to
increase non-wage recurrent costs due to the declining real value of central
budget allocations, it also agreed to measures to increase service efficiency
and cost recovery.
3.        Linkages Between Proiect. Sector and Macro Policy Oblectives.  IDA
helped the Government design a program of structural adjustment, in support of
substantive Government policy initiatives to promote economic development, and
adopted a lending program consisting of two parts: (a) a structural adjustment
lending program; and (b) a core program of investments in infrastructure,
institutional support, and human resource development. This project, IDA's
first in the health sector in Guinea-Bissau, was intended to further the core
lending program for human resource development, while supporting the social
sector during the difficult period of structural adjustment.
C. Proiect Obiectives and Description
4.         Proiect Oblectives.  The Project's two basic objectives were: (a)
to support the institutional development of MINSAP in planning, management and
finance; and (b) to improve the delivery of health and family planning
services, especially at the periphery (rural health center level). The
project's near-term focus on improving essential services, combined with its
complementary emphasis on strengthening the institutional framework, was
expected to create the basis for more extensive service delivery interventions
in the future, towards achievement of the Government goals for 1993.
5.        Prolect Description.   Part A of the project, regarding
institutional development activities and requiring 26 percent of the project
cost, included components for: improving MINSAP organization; creating a
management information system; strengthening drug system management;
developing and implementing methods for supervision of rural health services;
introducing rational financial planning and assisting MINSAP to implement
effective cost recovery measures; conducting policy studies on nutrition and
family planning; and carrying out a demographic health survey (DHS) to improve
the health statistics data base. In support of these actions, the project was
set to finance vehicles, furniture, equipment, materials, 22 months of
technical assistance, overseas fellowships, in-service training, supplies and
travel and per diem.
6.        Part B, to which 44 percent of the total project cost was allocated
for investment and incremental recurrent expenditures, was intended to
strengthen health and family planning service delivery and included: providing
basic equipment and essential drugs and materials to regional health
directories; rehabilitating 25 health centers to serve approximately 175,000
people; and providing in-service training to health personnel at all levels.



Project financing for this part included civil works, vehicles, equipment,
furniture, materials, medical and other supplies, technical assistance, short-
term overseas fellowships, in-service training, salaries under contractual
services, and travel/per diem. The remaining 30 percent of project cost was
applied to financing preparation (through the Project Preparation Facility --
PPF) and project administration.
D.  Proiect Design. Organization and Management
7.        This project emerged from an IDA sector review and a donor round
table, both in early 1986. The resulting project design constituted a
comprehensive response to the pressing needs identified by those exercises.
Specifically, the design was intended to promote long-term institutional
development within MINSAP, and at the same time cater to some immediate needs
in health service delivery, by financing part of the non-wage recurrent costs
(particularly medicines and materials), while alternative means for financing
recurrent costs were developed. A study and trial on cost recovery, which was
innovative for Guinea-Bissau, was proposed as a solution to MINSAP's
difficulties in financing such costs on a regular basis. Unfortunately, the
project's conceptual foundation proved to be overly ambitious in terms of
project objectives and range of subjects covered. Had project designers taken
greater account of implementation risks, and a more conservative appreciation
of the timeframe required to effect institution building and organizational
changes and to implement cost recovery measures, a less ambitious project
would have resulted, with better prospects for good implementation.
8.        The design did not include an evaluation component, nor did it have
requirements for evaluation of training. There were no impact indicators
specified to measure project effects on the population; the latter is not
unreasonable in view of the short time span of project implementation --
originally three years, which were extended to four -- as well as the
weaknesses of the data base for health conditions in the country. However, it
would have been useful to include process indicators such as training required
by specialty and duration, expected changes in the system and timing (for
instance, for establishment of the management information system, drug system
management, and rural supervision model) and clear objectives against which to
evaluate the proposed studies and surveys. The policy studies were not fully
designed and those which were executed did not lead to policy formulation.
9.        Prolect Management.  The project management unit performed
reasonably well its functions as handler of communication flow with IDA, but
was not as successful in establishing a good rapport with MINSAP, particularly
after a new minister took over in 1990. Furthermore, it would have needed to
exert a more rigorous control on the cost of consultancies in relation to
expected outputs, and on the overall budgeting and spending of the various
project categories. MINSAP, on its part, did not wield its authority to
oversee and guide the project management unit in key decisions regarding this
project -- e.g., when long delays occurred in completing architectural designs
for remodeling of health centers and when large consultant contracts were
issued.



- 4 -
10.       Appropriateness of Proiect Scale and Scope.  The total project cost
of US$4.2 million during a three-year period implied an additional 25 percent
annual financial input of recurrent and investment resources for the health
sector -- a large but not unreasonable increase, if the balance of
expenditures by project component would have been maintained during project
implementation; however, there was a significant variance between project
design and implementation (paras. 10-12). Additionally, the project scope was
too broad, with many sub-components, each requiring very specialized expertise
(e.g., management information system, drug logistics, field supervision,
training, administration of research and studies). In order to successfully
implement this project, MINSAP would have needed far more competence in
precisely those areas -- administration, financial planning, information
management, human resource development -- that the project itself was designed
to strengthen. Or alternatively, it would have needed a much greater capacity
than demonstrated to administer a large volume of technical assistance. The
end result was that MINSAP's acknowledged institutional and financial
limitations, compounded by its inexperience in dealing with a relatively large
project, exceeded the Ministry's implementation potential.
E. Prolect Implementation
11.       Critical Variances in Prolect Implementation.  Credit effectiveness
was extended from September 18, 1987 to December 18, 1987, to allow Government
to submit a three-year financial plan for MINSAP, incorporating the results of
a health cost and cost recovery study. When it became apparent that this
condition could not be met by December 18, 1987 the Development Credit
Agreement was amended so that effectiveness would not be further delayed.
Submission of the MINSAP plan was then changed from a condition of
effectiveness, to a covenant to be met by April 30, 1988. This covenant was
not fully met; while the consultants responsible for the cost recovery study
produced an outline of a financial plan, it was never followed up in actual
practice, due to the lack of expertise in financial analysis in MINSAP.
Following effectiveness, implementation of the entire project fell seriously
behind schedule, due in large part to institutional weaknesses within MINSAP
that were originally identified as risks. There were persistent vacancies of
key posts and other personnel problems within MINSAP, lack of counterpart
funding, and procedural problems affecting drug procurement. It should also
be noted that the period immediately preceding credit effectiveness and
beginning of implementation coincided with IDA's reorganization which resulted
in the replacement of the entire team for this project; this probably added to
the delays.
12.       A  major variance between planned and actual project implementation
was a shift in proiect composition and distribution of expenditures from civil
works, operating costs, goods and services, and the PPF, to the following
categories: (a) consultants and fellowships for which disbursements ended up
being almost three times higher than originally planned (US$1.5 million,
compared to US$640,000); (b) equipment, furniture, vehicles and materials for
which IDA disbursed over twice the amount set at appraisal (US1.1 million
compared to US$470,000); and (c) drugs and medical supplies, which received



US$1 million compared to US$700,000 appraised. The following explanations
were given by IDA staff for these changes:
(a) although the much higher than planned disbursement for consultants
and training resulted in part from underestimates of costs at
appraisal (for instance for the DHS and training this appears to be
the case), this should have been compensated by the fact that
several planned studies were not implemented; however, the costs of
most of the contracts appear to have been too high in relation to
the type of work performed and the outputs, undoubtedly a result of
the low capability of MINSAP to manage contracting and supervising
of consultants; in spite of the high cost of consultants in this
project, little training and institution building took place;
(b) a doubling in the amount spent for equipment, furniture, vehicles
and materials was a result of price escalation and of a substantial
underestimate of what it would cost to equip existing rural health
facilities in order to implement the model of rural supervision;
and
(c) at appraisal, drugs and medical supplies were intended to reinforce
material resources in rural health units while they made the
transition to a system of cost recovery; the higher amount spent in
drugs and medical supplies resulted from an acute shortage due to
temporary difficulties faced by regular donors (UNICEF, bilateral
donors) to keep up with deliveries for the whole country; the
Government, which has a non-significant budget for these items and
depends on foreign assistance, requested IDA to use credit funds to
cover the gap; also, at the end of 1987 the country suffered a
cholera epidemic and credit funds were authorized for procuring
drugs and medical supplies for this emergency; since then, the
project supported drug management system plus Swedish assistance
have improved coordination of drug supplies; and
(d) the civil works component was heavily underspent; as explained in
para. 24, the appraised remodeling of 25 rural health centers was
not implemented according to the original design; only two health
centers were remodeled using proceeds from the IDA credit, at a
cost of under $50,000 and another $50,000 was disbursed from the
Credit for civil works in the central MINSAP offices (all these
costs exclude expenditures for detailed designs amounting to
$72,000 which were disbursed under the consultant category). The
IDA staff sought other donors to finance rehabilitation works for
almost US$1 million for another 13 health centers (outside this
project).
13.       In view of the explained variances in the utilization of the IDA
credit, formal reallocation of proceeds took place in February 1991, 9 months
before credit closing. IDA staff indicated that only at that time it was
possible to obtain firm figures from the Government on committed funds and
projected expenditures.



- 6 -
14.       The lack of Government counterpart funds persisted throughout the
project. In spite of IDA staff consistent follow up on the need for the
Government to contribute specified amounts of funds each year for project
implementation, at credit closing its contribution was $61,900 compared to
$210,000 required and agreed.
15.       Project Risks.  Two major risks were anticipated in this first
population, health, and nutrition (PHN) project in Guinea-Bissau: (a)
implementation difficulties due to the inexperience of MINSAP personnel in
executing major structural reforms, particularly with respect to cost
recovery; and (b) insufficient availability of foreign exchange to meet the
health sector's critical import requirements. Both concerns proved to be well
founded and were resilient to efforts taken during implementation to overcome
them.
16.       Unforeseen Factors Affecting Proiect Implementation.  In late 1988,
several key MINSAP staff members were suspended pending Government
investigations and were not replaced; those affected included the Director of
Administration and Finance, the Director of Patrimony and the Director of
Public Health. Additionally, the Director of Planning was sent abroad for a
two-year training program. These personnel vacancies in the implementing
agency and their non-replacement decreased the possibilities of institution
building through the project and left most of the implementation in the hands
of the project director -- a foreign consultant -- and his staff. In
November, 1990, when a new health minister took over, a national Assistant
Project Director financed by GUB was appointed. Another unforeseen event was
that US$70,000 in project funds were frozen for over 2 and a half years by a
bank in Las Palmas which was originally designated to hold the Project's
special account; this was the result of a dispute between that bank and the
Armed Forces, unrelated to the Project and MINSAP. Although this complication
did not financially affect project outcome and was eventually resolved, it did
cause a major diversion of staff time in communications and during supervision
missions.
F. Major Results of the Proiect
Proiect Impact
17.       The overall impact of the credit was unsatisfactory.  Project
achievements fell short of ambitious appraisal targets. The cost-
effectiveness of inputs such as technical assistance and provision of
incremental recurrent costs has been low and little was accompanied on civil
works components. Nevertheless, there were modest accomplishments in training
and human resource development and in PHN data collection; the project also
managed to make some initial inputs towards cost-recovery, better drug system
management, improved rural supervision, and preliminary administrative reform
within MINSAP. Because this project represents the first attempt by any donor
in Guinea-Bissau to assist the health sector as a whole (as opposed to
individual projects or sites), the mentioned contributions are noteworthy.



18.       The original institutional develooment goal was to prepare a
comprehensive three-year action program and financial plan for the health
sector, including the creation of a rolling financial plan. MINSAP failed to
adopt a rolling financial plan during the project lifetime (as explained in
para 10); however, MINSAP was made aware of the need for such a plan and its
preparation continues to be discussed with IDA and WHO. Moreover, despite
delays, disputes and inadequacies that beset MINSAP's technical assistance,
the Ministry managed to prepare, with WHO assistance, and adopt and partially
implement a simplified reorganization plan. The Ministry appears headed, at
last, toward decentralization of management, administration and finance, with
a focus on increasing authority at the regional level.
Sectoral Policies
19.       This project enabled Guinea-Bissau's health sector to make several
noteworthy policy departures, and to follow them up with initial
implementation measures. With regard to drug system management, for example,
the project resulted in the establishment of an operational inventory control
system. This was achieved through the provision of a computer and a vehicle
for the Central Pharmaceutical Store, and training local staff in its use. A
National Drug Formulary was also produced, and 535 copies furnished to the
Central Drug Unit for nationwide distribution.
20.       In terms of supervision of rural health services, the two regions
chosen for project activities made headway in piloting a supervisory model for
eventual replication in the country's other regions. Health education
overseen by dedicated local staff sparked widespread interest among the rural
population, and attracted growing numbers of traditional midwives. However,
administrative turnover, plus lack of transport and of appropriate budget for
keeping up with maintenance and recurrent costs of the rural health services,
presented difficulties throughout. The supplies, equipment, vehicles and
technical assistance provided under the project -- fortified by supervision
and training contributed by Italian and Canadian non-governmental
organizations (NGOs) -- made a start in strengthening the health system
management process in the two regions, but was not enough to cover for the
deficiencies. Also, the lack of continuity of health staff in regional
positions and scarcity of resources continue to be major problems.
21.       The concept of cost recovery in the health services was introduced
in the project as a possible solution to the problem of persistent shortfalls
in MINSAP's budget for recurrent costs; in 1990 a general declaration was
issued announcing that cost recovery measures in the health services would
begin soon. This encountered public opposition. Since that time, a national
sensitization campaign began to educate the population on the need to pay for
health services, and a Cost Recovery Committee was created within MINSAP. In
the last year of the project, partial cost recovery measures (mainly for
medicines, following the recommendations of the Bamako initiative) had been
regularized in one region (Gabu) and were beginning to be selectively
implemented in various parts of the country. Progress in this area was helped
considerably by the fact that both WHO and UNICEF are committed to the Bamako
initiative. However, its expansion to other parts of the country and to other



- 8 -
items of health costs (e.g., medical visits, hospitalization, etc.) will be
dependent on increased Government and public acceptability of the concept, a
substantial increase in the quality of the health services to gain client
satisfaction, and continued donor and technical support for some time to come.
Policy Studies
22.       The project made a worthwhile contribution toward filling a vacuum
with respect to Guinea-Bissau's PHN information base. A Demographic and
Health Survey (DHS) was conducted and its results were presented in a 16-
volume report dated February, 1991. This was a major country-wide survey,
which is expected to form the basis of an improved health information system
(DHS cost was $200,000). It was conducted by a foreign consultant firm with
the active participation of MINSAP and the Department of Statistics of the
Ministry of Planning. Further, a Population and Family Planning Study and a
Nutrition Policy Study, each costing $50,000, were also produced by foreign
consultants. These three studies constitute major contributions to the
country's knowledge base; national seminars to disseminate study findings and
results were carried out. It should be noted, however, that the seminar on DHS
findings (costing $26,000) was financed by SPPF funds provided by IDA, because
the consultant contract failed to include this activity and project funds had
been exhausted. Although the execution and dissemination of the results of
these studies and their consideration and approval by MINSAP's Technical
Committee constitute useful achievements, the ultimate objective of using the
findings of these surveys and studies for developing national policies in
nutrition and in maternal and child health and family planning as a basis for
health and social action programs, remains unaccomplished.
Human Resource Development
23.       This component exceeded appraisal targets in terms of participants
involved and funds expended. It encompassed project-related training, on-the-
job training, short courses and seminars, primarily in the areas of
administration, financial management, accounting, drug management, and
maternal and child health. The Project Manager estimated that 6,500 people
benefitted directly or indirectly from training, both funded by the project
and as a result of the multiplier effect of trainers training grass-root
workers; the Staff Appraisal Report target of 500 trained health personnel
directly funded by the credit was amply met. Total fellowship and training
expenditures amounted to $465,000, compared to an estimate of $60,000 for
these items at appraisal. The project design did not call for close
monitoring or evaluation of training activities. However, according to the
Project Director's assessment and periodic accounts by consultants, the
project appears to have made a useful beginning in human resource development,
and one that the upcoming Social Sectors Project can build on.



-9-
Civil Works
24.       As already mentioned (para 12 under Variances), activities under
this component fell far short of appraisal goals. The number of facilities to
be remodeled was first scaled back after an assessment of rehabilitation needs
in 1988, when it was found that 10 of the 25 centers identified at appraisal
were beyond repair.   The detailed architectural designs including adaptations
to sites for 15 centers and the translation of the technical papers from
French --the language used by the consultants-- and Portuguese took an
inordinately long time (from October, 1988 to August, 1990). In spite of the
smaller number of centers considered for repair, the total cost for
rehabilitating them exceeded by far the appraised estimates. Indeed, in 1990
it was estimated that US$1,030,400 would be needed for repairing 15 centers,
compared to the original estimate of $430,000 for 25 centers. The IDA staff
and the project management unit attributed the large difference between
appraised and actual costs of civil works to initial underestimates in unit
costs and scope of work, as well as to price escalation. A supervision
mission at that time determined that project funds had already been applied to
other categories -- particularly to consultancies. After taking into account
commitments already made it was decided that IDA funds could be used to
rehabilitate only two centers.
Proiect account audits
25.       Project accounts and audits were conducted by independent auditors
selected and retained according to IDA Guidelines. All required audits were
presented to IDA usually on time or with slight delays and were considered
satisfactory.
G. Project Sustainabilitv
26.       Because of the low financial base for supporting health services,
the lack of a clear financial plan, the large proportion of funding from
external donors and MINSAP's limited capacity as managing agency for the
sector, this project placed particularly strong emphasis on sustainability
from the outset. For example, no new facilities were proposed and a primary
goal in components as diverse as institutional development, training, drug
management, rural supervision and cost recovery, was to develop appropriate
frameworks for continuing efforts in the future. Although a foundation is now
in place for expansion and improved quality of health activities as a result
of this credit, the health system still lacks the competence for self-
sustainment and growth and will need perhaps at least a decade to reach a
level of an acceptable financial and technical sustainability. A follow-on
Social Sectors Project will have fewer components and will be more focussed on
capacity building and substantially, expanding the human resource training
begun with this project. The forthcoming project will also focus on technical
assistance with stronger review and with built-in transfer of knowledge to
national counterparts. In addition, it will have a social action fund to
assist NGOs which have a good track record on the country, in developing
micro-social sector projects and better reach those at the grass-root level.



- 10 -
H. IDA Performance
27.        Maior Strengths and Weaknesses.  IDA staff showed consistent
flexibility and creativity, which proved particularly important in view of the
Borrower's inexperience. Moreover, during implementation IDA persistently and
effectively pursued other donors and NGOs (WHO, EEC, UNFPA and others) to
obtain additional technical assistance and funding for project-related
activities, most notably for rehabilitation of health centers and the
procurement and management of essential drugs. Efforts by IDA staff to
strengthen donor coordination during this project paved the way for increased
formal cooperation (particularly among IDA, WHO and UNICEF), which should
benefit future efforts in the social sectors in Guinea-Bissau. However, there
were some shortcomings, including the following:
(a) earlier identification of the problems affecting the construction
component would have enabled the adoption of alternative solutions
for successful bidding of the civil works including lowering the
pre-qualification requirements for local contractors and grouping
construction work in small packages; and
(b) a tighter control of the technical assistance costs, early
detection of cost overruns, and closer attention to quality and
utilization of consultants could have led to higher effectiveness
and lower costs than achieved in the project; only in 1991, when
credit funds were almost exhausted, did IDA begin to impose limits
on expenditures in consultants' contracts and placed strict limits
to unprogrammed spending.
28.        Lessons Learned.  The following lessons may be used for future
projects:
(a) Project preparation needs to identify accurately the weaknesses of
the implementing agency in order to design projects that are
realistically implementable; while identification of sector needs
is important, frequently projects -- particularly first-time
operations -- are not able to eliminate all sector constraints and
it is essential to prioritize interventions;
(b) When construction components are part of a project, they should be
properly prepared, although they are usually less significant than
software components in addressing sector issues; in this project,
remodeling of facilities was not sufficiently planned during
project preparation and thus, problems regarding the capacity of
the construction sector in the country and the need for
alternatives to large contractors was acknowledged only at a late
stage in the project cycle, when there was not enough time left to
undertake a suitable remodeling program;
(c) technical assistance is an essential component in cases in which
the capacity of the sector agencies is low; however, its design
should be in line with the agencies' absorptive capacity, and



- 11 -
should be closely supervised to enable remedial action in cases
where quality, performance and cost become out of line with
established standards and objectives; and
(d) Additional units or administrative staff for project management may
be a good solution in cases were the implementing agency's capacity
is low, but the experiences of this and other projects suggest that
a project director, particularly a foreign consultant, should not
be allowed to work without national counterparts and in isolation
of the national agency or become the sole agent of communication
with IDA; a main function of a project unit, in addition to project
monitoring, should be institution building.
I. Borrower Performance
29.       Maior Strengths and Weaknesses.  During project preparation, the
Government took several reassuring steps: it acted diligently in appointing an
expatriate Project Director and in creating a Project Management Unit, and
committed itself to pursuing several changes in policy and organization.
Regular quarterly reports were submitted, and the Borrower complied with Bank
audit and other procedural requirements.
30.       However, the project suffered serious implementation problems when
MINSAP allowed key managerial positions to remain vacant for over two years
for lack of competent candidates, and scarce administrative skills within the
ministry. IDA exchanges during the project period were with the project
management office, which in principle provided the link with the various
MINSAP divisions; but interest in the project within MINSAP was low. This
situation changed slightly under a new minister in 1990, when a stronger
interest began to emerge; for instance, much of IDA's correspondence began to
be copied to the Minister at her request. Implementation was also compromised
by the Ministry of Finance's inability to make counterpart funds available
when needed during the project period.
31.       Lessons Learned.  The main lesson learned by MINSAP was that when
foreign consultants are contracted to run a project implementation unit,
appropriate national counterpart staff must be in position and the
implementing agency has the right and responsibility of oversight over the
performance of the unit. The same concept of oversight applies to all
technical assistance contracts. Additionally, knowledge transfer and/or
training should be included in the terms of reference. When studies are
conducted, consultants should have a contractual obligation to present their
findings and explain the methodology used in the study to the client agency.
J.   Project RelationshiR
32.       The Bank-Borrower relationship throughout was satisfactory.  A
positive tone was set from the beginning and was sustained during
implementation.



- 12 -
K.   Consulting Services
33.       Although most of the consultant services provided under the project
resulted in acceptable studies and surveys, consultant performance could have
been more cost effective had careful design been conducted at appraisal and
more strict cost control and technical oversight had been exerted. The
consultancy on MINSAP's reorganization was overly expensive in comparison to
the results and produced recommendations that, according to Government
evaluation, were not entirely appropriate for the local situation; as a
result, the Ministry ended up adopting a simplified organizational design,
with assistance from WHO.
L. Prolect Documentation and Data
34.       The Staff Appraisal Report, supervision and consultant reports, and
additional material contained in the project files provided adequate
information for this project completion report. In addition, a Social Sectors
Stratezy Review (Volume I, September 1991) provided a very helpful in-depth
view of the broader context in which this project was implemented.



- 13 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
GUINEA -BISSAU
POPULATION. HEALTH AND NUTRITION PROJECT
(Credit 1800-GUB)
PART II.  PROJECT REVIEW FROH BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
1.        The time has come to close this project which for the last four years
has provided Guinea-Bissau with support for its national health policy, based on
the delivery of primary health care.
2.        In compliance with the covenants contained in the Credit Agreement
1800-GUB signed with IDA for the financing of the design and execution of the
project, we must now make a general review of the project and present our
evaluation.
3.        All  sorts  and  types  of  problems  were  encountered  during  the
implementation of the Population, Health, and Nutrition Project; despite the
lengthy duration of the project, it was impossible to successfully complete a
large proportion of the components, leaving some objectives unaccomplished.
4.        Certain actions were, however, accomplished albeit with considerable
difficulty, such as the nutrition Study (Part 1) which was conducted between
December, 1990 and January, 1991, followed by dissemination of the results
through a seminar.
5.        With respect to the Government's formulation of a Food and Nutrition
Policy, we think it is logical and technically advisable to wait the completion
of Part 2 of the study, so that the document to be submitted to the Government
for approval can draw on the study's findings.
6.        As for the counterpart funds, which the Government was to have made
available in a amount equivalent to US$200,000, it is true that these were not
provided on time because of the large number of projects in other sectors of
Government activities that also depend on the National Development Fund; another
factor was the country's serious shortage of financial resources. Nevertheless,
a major effort was made and we believe that the Government met its commitment
under the Credit Agreement.
7.        Additional costs were incurred, particularly in connection with the
Food and Nutrition Survey, which required an additional mission of the foreign
consultants in December,  1990, because the June, 1990 mission had not been
properly prepared by the Project Management Unit, which had failed to inform the
Directora Nacional do Estudo of the plans to carry it out.



- 14 -
8.        In view of the many different irregularities  encountered during
project implementation and the lack of collaboration between the Management Unit
and the other departments, it was felt advisable to appoint a national
counterpart to act as Deputy and thus assist the National Project Manager, who
was an expatriate.
9.        As soon as the national counterpart was hired as Assistant Consultant,
the National Project Director decided to turn his back on his responsibilities
and go on a trip without giving anyone previous notification.
10.       With respect to the cost recovery policy, the greatest difficulty was
encountered when an attempt was made to provide health care to as wide a cross-
section of the population as possible on the basis of a sliding scale tailored
to each client's income level. These activities had to be suspended because of
the extreme dissatisfaction and unrest that they caused among the public,
unaccustomed to paying for health care.
11.       We feel that the project design was faulty in certain respects,
particularly where the structural objectives were concerned, viz. the
reorganization of MINSAP and the Study on Family Planning.
12.       MINSAP's reorganization was one of the Project's basic and essential
objectives which, unfortunately, was impossible to accomplish in the short term.
While it is true that some improvements were made in the Ministry's organization,
we have to admit that we have serious doubts whether these were basically
influenced by the conclusions and recommendations of the consultant firm involved
or prompted by the distinctive style of the new leadership.
13.       The conclusions and recommendations are there, and we have a number
of manuals that we can use for a basic undertaking of this type, but the project
design did not pay proper attention to the real life situation of our
institutions and the status of our staff, who are greatly demoralized by their
low salaries, which make it necessary for them to find second jobs, leaving them
insufficient time to perform their work properly, let alone read the extensive
paper files left by the consultant.
14.       Regarding the Family Planning Study, it had a worthwhile objective in
an area in which the Government definitely needs to adopt a policy. However, we
must question its scope and success. The fact is that it touches on one of the
most intimate aspects of conjugal and personal life, where cultural values are
deeply ingrained; for this reason, any measures that are adopted to deal with
this matter, inevitably cause some upset and are doomed to failure from the
start.
15.       We feel that the most appropriate course of action is to offer
education through case-by-case medical consultations and through the schools, by
increasing the enrollment rate among our children. In fact, as a specialist has
concluded from a study on this topic, a woman who has never attended school is
likely to have twelve children, one who has completed fourth grade is unlikely
to have more than eight, one who has completed secondary education diploma is



- 15 -
expected to stop at four, and one who has completed university is unlikely to
have more than two.
16.       In our opinion, the project design failed in these two specific areas
because insufficient attention was paid to the basic issue responsible for the
real life situation, resulting in a considerable investment which offered very
limited chance of success from the start.
17.       The Project execution per se had its own problems, above and beyond
the deficiencies that had to do with the design, in so far as it encountered
difficulties in the field, which it failed to overcome. This may have resulted
from a failure to secure the cooperation of other government officials who felt
removed from the project objectives; it could also be that the Project Management
Unit did not work hard enough and had serious shortcomings which were
particularly glaring with respect to rehabilitation of health centers, assistance
given to consultants, and procurement of consumable and durable goods and
equipment.
18.       The World Bank's financial management of the project did cause some
difficulties, but these were, in fact, neither insurmountable nor pivotal in
those areas where the project was less than successful. In any case, we feel
that it should be possible, in the medium term, to move toward other forms of
joint financial management, which would allow the local management unit more
freedom of movement for the sake of facilitating efforts to accomplish the
Project's objectives, provided it is headed by an appropriate and capable
manager.
19.       In our opinion, the design and execution of the project was not
entirely bad and it is bound to have a positive contribution toward improving the
delivery of health care throughout to country, providing better information on
existing health care facilities and pointing the way to a new policy of health
care and for the management and cost-effective utilization of available
resources. Despite the lack of success with the cost recovery policy, lessons
have been learned from the experience gained so that we may, in the medium term,
develop an efficient system for amortizing the costs of health care, which have,
until now, been fully born by the State.  We shall continue with the Bamako
initiative and believe that the entire country will, in the course of time,
eventually understand the need for each user to contribute toward amortizing the
costs and improving the quality of health care.
20.       We could certainly have achieved better results, had the project
management not been so poor, even in the case of the most viable components. We
feel justified in giving the project now completed a passing grade, thanks to the
funds made available and to the controls imposed by the new leadership of the
Ministry. A further point worth remembering is that prior to 1990 the project
focussed basically on the procurement and distribution of goods for consumption
and direct utilization.
21.       The people of Guinea-Bissau are suffering from serious deprivation and
shortages. Health sector statistics, such as birth rates and infant and maternal
mortality rates, not to mention the prevalence of malnutrition in certain parts



- 16 -
of the country, as well as endemic diseases including malaria, diarrhea and AIDS,
speak loud and clear and force the Government to make an all-out effort in order
to minimize the disastrous consequences, which not only increase the burden on
the State, but also hold back the country's development process.
22.       We consider that this project served as a test from which the country
has been able to learn some valuable lessons.
23.       In light of all what has been said earlier, we are convinced that at
least one lesson has been learned, and that is that projects must not directly
pursue any structural objectives without local involvement. We believe that even
in the absence of the difficulties listed above, it would have been preferable
to find ways to encourage an internal exchange of experience and to give priority
to the work and consulting services of local experts who, even if not equipped
to offer studies as elaborate as those provided by the international consultants,
would produce findings that would have the advantage of reflecting the country's
real situation more closely and would therefore have a greater impact.
Furthermore, only by giving these technical experts a challenge will it be
possible to ensure their real and sustained development until they are eventually
capable of serving as an ongoing resource to international consultants.
24.       The fact therefore bears repeating that the project was a success.
The results obtained provide a storehouse of information on which we will be able
to draw in order to maximize the returns on future undertakings.
25.       We  hope  to continue  to earn  the  support  of  the  international
community, since we are determined to do our utmost to renew our hope of entering
the twenty-first century with a more satisfactory health profile that will enable
us to meet the challenge of development and the attainment of "Health for All"
by the year 2000.
Bissau, June, 1992



- 17 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
GUINEA-BISSAU
POPULATION, HEALTH AND NUTRITION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1800-GUB)
PART III. STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1.    Related Bank Loans and/or Credits
Not applicable.
2.    Proiect Timetable
Item                Original            Revised             Actual
Date               Date
Identification I                                                   01/86
Identification II                                                  04/86
Preparation                                                        07/86
Pre-appraisal Mission                                              09/86
Appraisal Mission                                                   12/86
Credit Negotiations                                                03/87
Board Approval                                                     05/19/87
Credit Signature                                                   05/22/87
Credit Effectiveness         09/18/87            12/18/87          12/18/87 1/
Credit Closing               06/30/91            12/31/91          12/31/91 2/
4J Credit effectiveness was extended to allow Goveranment's submission of a
three-year action program and financial plan, incorporating the results
of a health cost and cost recovery study. As this condition could not
possibly be met by December 1987 and thus further unecessary delays to
project implementation would have been created, it was recommended,
after amending the Development Credit Agreement (new Section 3.10), that
it become a covenant to be met by April 30, 1988. However, this
covenant has never been fully complied.
V.    Project closing date was extended on June 13, 1991, to allow Government
to complete key project activities.



- 18 -
3.    Credit Disbursements
A.   Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
(US$ million)
Fiscal Year       FY88         FY89        FY90         FY91        FY92
Appraisal Estimate        1.7          2.7         3.7          4.2 1/
Actual                    0.9          2.8         4.2          4.4         4.51/
Actual as % of Estimate 55.3         103.7       112.2%       103.8       107.9
B. Time Line of Appraisal Estimate and Actual Disbursement Schedule
4.5-
4
3.5 
z3                /      /
2.5-
2-
1999       1999       1990        1991        1992
IDA   fical Years
0    A4pwalal eatlrwtA      +    ACtLfI
1/ Because of the fluctuation of the US dollars against SDR, the project benefitted from
additional funds equivalent to about US$300,000. All funds under Credit 1800-GUB are now
disbursed. There was no cancellations to this Credit.



- 19 -
Table C: Allocation of Proceeds
In SORs                                    In USS
Originat                           Actual
Category                       Allocation       Revised  1/   Disbursements 2/         Balance       Balance 3/
1. Civil Works                                        350,000          98,700              70,590            28,110       37,452
2. Equipment, furniture, vehicles
and materials                                      380,000         668,900             798,335          (129,435)   (172,453)
3. Consultants' services and feLlowships              400,000       1,124,700           1,124,188                512          682
4. Drugs and medical supplies                         560,000         698,900             748,581            (49,681)    (66,193)
5. Operating Costs                                    340,000          55,900              56,054               (154)        (205)
6. Goods and services related to
implementation of activities and                  220,000          137,500            137,535                (35)         (46)
programs resulting from policy studies
7. Refunding of PPF                                   850,000         460,500             466,708             (6,208)      (8,272)
8. Unallocated                                        300,000         154,900              (1,992)          152,908      203,727
TOTAL                           3,400,000        3,400,000          3,400,000                  0            0
1/ Formal reallocation of credit proceeds was done per IDA's telex of February 1, 1991.
2/ Actual and final disbursements.
3/ At exchange rate of USS1.33 = 1 SDR.



- 20. -
4. Project Inplementation
SAR
Project Components                  Unity   Estimates    Actual                        Comments
Part A. Institutional Development
1. Organization and Management:
(a) Implementation of MINSAP's               Unit             1        0.5    Work performed by Firm of consultants
reorganization plan;                                                       was inadequate; a simpler plan was
proposed and then impLemented.
(b) Design and Implementation of
a Management Information System          Unit            1         0.5    MIS was inplemented for the cost recovery
measures but was not entirely instituted.
(c) Implementation of a plan to              Unit             1          1    A Drug Management System has been implemented
improve drug system management                                            and the Central Drug Unit is operating
efficiently.
(d) Development, testing and                 Unit             1           1    The ruraL supervision comYponent was
implementation of a model system                                          carried out successfully in the Bafata Region
for the supervision of rural                                               and in Sonaco (Gabu Region) in spite of
health services in the Bafata                                              some problem such as inadequate transportation.
region and the Sonaco area of Gabu
region.
2. Planning and Policy Development:
(a) Study on the Hospital sector,            Unit             1          0    The study did not take place as part
including rehabilitation needs,                                            the PHN Project but rather within the
framework of the Bank's Social Sectors
Strategy Review.
(b) Study on Nutrition.                      Unit             1           1    Study was endorsed by the Technical
Coctittee and then by MINSAP Minister
in August 1991. A seminar to discuss
study's findings was carried out in late 1991.
(c) Study on Family Planning.                Unit             1          1    Study was well received by the Technical
Committee and MINSAP. A seminar on the
study has been carried out.
(d) Study on demand for health               Unit             1          0 1/ It was decided that these two studies
services at the health center level                                        should be in abeyance until more urgent
studies be carried out.
(e) Study on energy requirements             Unit             1          0 1/
of the health sector and alternative
sources of energy.
(f) Improvement of basic PHN data
including:
(i)   analysis of the 1979 census;    Unit               1           1
(ii)  implementation of a national    Unit               1           1    The DHS has been completed and data
sample survey;                                                     distributed. A seminar to discuss the DHS
results was held in April 1992 under a SPPF.
(iii)  Creation of a data bank;           Unit            1         0.1    Rudimentary data bank done.
(iv)   Training of DGE and MINSAP's    Unit               1           1    Training in statistics, accounting and
staff in statistics                                                 cowputer were carried out. However, it is
recomnended that further training in those
areas be provided.
1/ Because of the overextended capacity of the PMU in carrying out a large number of activities to be
inplemented under this project, the project staff recommmended that these two studies be put in abeyance
until a number of more pressing activities be completed.



- 21 -
SAR
Project Components                Unity   Estimates    Actual                       Comments
Part B. Strengthening HeaLth and FamiLy Planning
Services
1. Support for Rural Health Services:
(a) Strengthening of the 8 Regional         Unit           8          .2   Regional Directories witl be strengthened
Directories and inplementation of                                       in a future project. PHN focused on Bafata
supervision and management techniques                                   and Gabu regions.
in the regions, following the
results of the model system referred
to in Part A.1.(d) above.
(b) Rehabilitation of about 25 heatth       Unit          25           7    Rehabilitation: 2 health centers under
centers.                                                                the project; 4 heaLth centers by CECI (Canada);
1 health center under PASI project; onLy
5 health centers of the remaining 18 are
listed as irrep rable.
(c) Equipping, furnishing and provision   Unit            122        109    In addition to 109 health centers,
of health care inputs to about                                          3 referral centers; 5 sectoral hospitals;
122 health centers.                                                     8 regional hospitals; and 2 nationaL
hospitals obtained equipment, materials,
2. HeaLth Manpower DeveLopment:
Establishment of an in-service training   Unit            500        500    It is estimated that about 6,500 persons
program for about 500 health workers                                        benefitted directLy or indirectly from
in maternal and chiLd health, epidemiology,                                 the training provided under the project.
and family planning, nutrition, drug
prescription/utilization, health and
nutrition education and other health
care areas.



- 22 -
5. Project Costs and Financing
Table A. Project Costs (USS '000)
Appraisal Estimates                    Actual 1/
Foreign                           Foreign
Local   Exchange                 Local    Exchange
Category               Costs   Costs        Total        Costs    Costs       TotaL
1. Civil Works                          24.4    395.6    420.0             35.3     58.8      94.1
2. Equipment, Furniture,
vehicles and materials                6.9    478.9    485.8             66.6  1,003.2  1,069.8
3. Consultants' Services
and Fellowships                      52.5    613.4    665.9            162.0  1,335.8  1,497.8
4. Drugs and Nedical Supplies            0.0    625.2    625.2             69.8    927.6    997.4
5. Operating Costs                      79.6    385.7    465.3             69.0     61.2    130.2
6. Goods and Services under
Part A.2 (b) of the Project          14.7    382.5    397.2              0.0    183.2    183.2
7. Refunding of PPF                     46.0    922.0    968.0              0.0    621.8    621.8
8. Unallocated                          62.0    322.2    384.2              0.0      (2.7)    (2.7)
Total                  286.1  4,125.5  4,411.6            402.7  4,189.0  4,591.7
1/ Goverr,ment's contribution reflects data shown in Audit Report covering period
until Decemiber 31, 1991.



- 23 -
Table B: Project Financing (in US Dollars)
Planned
Source of Financing/                       (Credit                       % of                   % of
Categories of Expenditures                    Agreement)1/   Revised 2/   TotaL        FinaL  3/  TotaL  SaLance
I. IDA:
1. Civil Works                                        470,000           131,503       2.8%      94,051       2.0%    37,452
2. Equipment, furniture, vehicles
and materials                                      560,000           891,209      18.8%  1,063,662       23.2%  (172,453)
3. Consultants' Services and                          640,000         1,498,494      31.6%  1,497,812       32.6%        682
Fellowships
4. Drugs and MedicaL Supplies                         740,000           931,179      19.6%    997,372       21.7%   (66,193)
5. Operating Costs                                    430,000            74,478       1.6%      74,683       1.6%       (205)
6. Goods and Services under
Part A.2 (b) of the Project                        400,000           183,198       3.9%    183,245        4.0%        (46)
7. Refunding of PPF                                   970,000           613,547      12.9%    621,819       13.5%    (8,272)
8. UnaLLocated                                               0          206,381       4.4%      (2,654)    -0.1%   209,035
TOTAL IDA                           4,210,000        4,529,990       95.6%  4,529,990       98.7%          0
II. GOVERNMENT OF GUINEA-BISSAU
1. CiviL Works                                         20,000            20,000       0.4%           0       0.0%
2. Equipment, furniture, vehicles
and materials                                       10,000            10,000       0.2%       6,137       0.1%
3. ConsuLtants' Services and
Fellowships                                         70,000            70,000       1.5%         397       0.0%
5. Operating Costs                                    110,000           110,000       2.3%      55,364       1.2%
TOTAL GOVERNMENT OF GUINEA-BISSAU                  210,000           210,000       4.4%      61,898       1.3%
TOTAL PROJECT FINANCING                    4,420,000         4,739,990    100.0%  4,591,888    100.0%
1/ AlLocation to each category of expenditures is inclusive of price and physical contingencies.
2/ Formal reallocation of the credits proceeds was done per IDA's telex of February 1, 1991. Because of the fluctuation
of the US doLlars against SDR, the project benefitted from additional funds equivalent to about USS300,000.
3/ For IDA: ActuaL and final disbursements status. For Goverrinment: based on Audit Report covering period
ending Decemfber 31, 1991.
(Exchange Rate USS1.33 z SDR 1).



- 24 -
6. Project Rtsults
_...................
..................................................................................... .......... .................................. ................................................................._
Purpose as Defir d
Items                                     at Appraisal                                          Status                              tIpact of Action
...............................................................................................................................................................
A. Studies
1. HeeLth coat  i  cost recovery study,   To addres the tack of financiat platming  The studi   were ftinanced partiatty under   Created a greet deat of  areres
ard a thrae-yer ftn nciaL ptan study  ad iprve financing of non-wage                         PPF   d were cewpttad.                            In the hIYSAP  cost recovery
recurrent coats.                                                                                  messure  have ben lIplo_nctd
In the GaW  Region aid it is
espected to exparnd to other
regiora.
2. Sttdy on the  Hospitat Sector,               The study would focus on                         The study did not take place as part              it sboutd assist the tItlSAP in
Inctuding rehabilitation ne                 utiLizxtion rates, quaLity                       the PHY Project but rather within the              proving pLaming aind
of care, msrowcr  nd                             fraraork of the lenit's Sociat Sectors           aLlocation of resources.
investnt requir nts,                            Strategy Reviw.
physicaL condition of
facitititee nd rehabiLitation
neede, availability of hoteing
for health aorkers,  nd
overatt costs of the sector.
3. Study on Nutrition                           To better determine rstritfont                   Study ws  andorsed by the Technical               ProvidIng to health  workert
status in the country,  inctuding               Coeseittee ad then by  IISAP Minister            basic krowtldge and skitts
food choice, preration habits,                   in August 1991.  A seminr to discuss             as regards nutrition for
aid ce.atity of malnutrition.                   study's findings was carried out in              a'lying acquired skiLts in the
Nroveer 1991 for heaLth workers.                  the rurat areas aid thus
reaching a grester population.
4. Study on FomiLy Pteming                      To dove op, test and inpt~nt a                   Studhy as  well received by the Technical         Providing to health workers
sii-rOe guide for cLassifying                   COMMicte  and  tNiSAP. A seminar on the            basic knowladge and skitts
rd referring wn   according to                  study has bean carried out in Janary               as regeros famiLy ptanning for
their level of obarttrical or                    1992 for a mjority of health aorkerl.             applying acquired skitls in the
raprodoctive risks,                                                                                the rurst areas and thus
reaching a greater popuation.
5. Study on D _  for Wetth Services             To be lip  arnted by the National                Study  s  not carried out par so, but we
St the Heaith Canter Lovel                   Inetituts for Studies and lesarch               tied to the information received from
(iYEPI. To examine poputlr                      the result of the DOeogrephic Health
perceptions of health canter services,          Survey (DHS), (sea SZ betow).
mest cormon services sought, wd
ttLs of cmmonity support for the
health canters.
6. Study on EnMgy tequir_nts of the    To evaluate the enrgy requirnts                           Prioriticatiorn of studies' to be carried
NWlth Sector wid Alternativ  Sources  of sector hospitats, hekthLcent.re and    out reveald that thoes  studies shoutd be
of Energy                                   heatth personnet's residences and               -put In abyance to that efforts  nd
to propose alternative enrgy sources,           resources could be concentrated on other
type  of studies (fi lty ptanning,
nutrition, *tc.) selected because of
their urgenc ies
7. Study to Determine Trauportation                            Hot specified.                    Dropped                                           Insufficient furde aid priority
Needs of Cuter istkan;                                                                                                                          tow.
A. Study of Low-cot Nauming Needs for                          sot specified.                    Dropped under the project.                        Witt be part of the subsequent
N=tCh Persoree  assigned to Iural                                                                                                               project irateed.
Facititie.
d. Data Cottection aid Arltyels:
.1.A. stLiyal f the 1979 Ceuin;                 Anatysis   d puLication of results               Carried out                                        Incorporated into DHS dqt.
Z.  plstentation of a nrtionat PYe t
sapmt. survey (or DNS);                      IpNtentation started under PPF.                 The DhS was completed ad data distributed.  A saminar to discuss the ODS
reduLts has taken placed in
Aprlt 1992 uider a SPPF.
3. Creation of a dta bank;                      Through the prevision of a 3-onth                Rudimentary data bank done.
overseas faltowehip for a dats
technician aid technicflt sestatwce
from a data bank inforntion specialist.
4. Training of DO  aid tIlYAW's                 Through the provision of technicel               Training in statistics, accounting mid            improving skitts capacity noted,
Staff In Statistics;                       lasistance from  a puitic health                  c; piter wre carried out. However, It is    biut more is required.
statistician ad  n S-oonth overses,              recaie    d  that further treining in those
fetLowship  In health statistics.               areas be provided.



7. Compliance with Covenants                                   -  25  -
Section                          Covenant                                                  Status
2.02 (b)        The Borrower shall open and maintain in                In full comptiance.
dollars a special account in a commercial              The Special Account has been fuLLy recovered.
bank on terms and conditions satisfactory              hINSAP was recently informed that it should
to IDA.  Deposits into, and payments out              give instructions to Citibank, SenegaL to
of, the Special Account shall be made in               close the account.
accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 4 to the Development Credit
Agreement (DCA).
3.03            The Borrower shall not later than
October 30 in each year of the project
review in detail with IDA, MINSAP's:                   In full compliance except for (a), where it
was complied with "in principle", but not
(a) three-year action program and                      in reality.
financial plan;
(b) development and recurrent budget
for the following fiscal year;
(c) organizational structure;
(d) rural supervision procedures;
(e) in-service training program; and
(f) the results of special poLicy
studies and potential new program.
3.04            The Borrower shall, not later than                     In compliance. National Drug Formulary
March 31, 1988, take all necessary                     published in 1991.  Drug policy and cost
measures to enact and make public its                  recovery measures implemented and refined.
national drug policy.                                  Computer training taken in Fall 1991 by
drug management staff to help adequate
implementation of the measures.
3.05            The Borrower shall take all necessary                  Pilot activities introducing cost recovery
action to grant to MINSAP the legal                   measures, and Bamako Initiative, were
exemption established by Decree No. 51/85              implemented on April 1, 1990 in the Gabu
of December 4, 1985 of the Borrower to                 Region; it is expected that these measures
allow the retention of 100X of all fees                will be expanded to other regions during
collected by MINSAP in accordance with                 the next year.
the health cost recovery measures
implemented.
3.06            The Borrower shall, not later than                     In full compliance.
November 30, 1987, establish an account
in the National Bank of Guinea-Bissau
(BNG) (MINSAP account) on terms and
conditions satisfactory to IDA. All
proceeds accruing from fees collected
pursuant to Section 3.05 of the DCA
shall be deposited in the MINSAP Account.
3.07            (a) not later than January 1, 1989,                    In full compliance. A national seminar was
complete and furnish to IDA for its review             carried out in November 1991, to discuss
and comments, the recommendations resulting            and disseminate the results of the study.
from the studies related to nutrition
carried out by the Borrower pursuant to
Part A.2 (a) (ii) of the Project;
(b) not later than January 1, 1989,                   Not complied. Expected that this will be
prepare a national nutrition policy and                the end result of study and national
action program;                                        seminar carried out in late 1991.
(c) promptly thereafter exchange views and             Not complied.
agree with IDA on the implementation of
said policy and action program.
3.10            The Borrower shall, not later than                     Not complied. However, HINSAP has recently
April 30, 1988, furnish to IDA MINSAP's                made positive progress in the development
action programs and financial plan for                 of a rolling financial plan. MINSAP's
the 1988-1990 period, incorporating the                Office of Planning and a WHO technical
results of the health cost and cost                   assistant are drafting a financial plan
recovery study carried out by the                      for the Ministry, which would serve as a
Borrower on terms and conditions                       working document, and financial planning and
satisfactory to IDA.                                   management vehicle.



- 26 -
Section                         Covenant                                                   Status
4.01            (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause               In fuLL compliance.
to be maintained records and accounts                 A last audit report covering the period
adequate to reflect in accordance with                 ending December 31, 1991, was prepared
sound accounting practices and operations,             and submitted to IDA.
resources and expenditures in respect of
the Project of the departments or agencies
of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out the Project or any part thereof.
(b) The Borrower shall:                                                Same as above.
ti) have the records and accounts referred
to in para. (a) of this Section, including
those for the Special Account for each
fiscal year audited, in accordance
with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to IDA; and
(ii) furnish to IDA, as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months
after the end of each such year, a
certified copy of the report of such
audit by said auditors, of such scope and
in such detail as IDA shall from time
to time reasonably request.
(c) For all expenditures with respect to                               Same as above.
which withdrawals from the Credit Account
were made on the basis of SOEs, the
Borrower shall:
(i) maintain or cause to be maintained,
in accordance with para. (a) of this
Section, records and accounts reflecting
such expenditures;
(ii) retain, until at least one year after
the completion of the audit for the
fiscaL year in which the last withdrawal
from the Credit Account was made, all
records (contracts, orders, invoices,
bills, receipts and other documents)
evidencing such expenditures;
(iii) enable IDA's representatives to
examine such records; and
Civ) ensure that such records and
accounts are included in the annual audit
referred to in para. (b) of this Section
and that the report of such audit contains
a separate opinion by said auditors
as to whether the SOEs submitted during
such fiscal year, together with the
procedures and internal controls involved
in their preparation, can be relied upon
to support the related withdrawals.



- 27 -
8. Use of Bank Resources
A. Staff Inputs
(Staffweeks)
---------------------------Fiscal Years------------------------
Project Stage              FY86       FY87       FY88       FY89      FY90       FY91       FY92        Total
Preparation/Preappraisal             11.8      33.0                                                              44.8
AppraisaL                                      42.1                                                              42.1
Negotiations                                     3.3                                                              3.3
Supervision                                      1.2      21.6        8.9       17.5       11.6       9.9        70.7
CompLetion                                                                                            8.0         8.0
TOTAL                    11.8       79.6      21.6        8.9       17.5       11.6       17.9      168.9



- 28 -
S. Mission Data
Performance
Month/   No. of   Days in          Specializations              Status by
Project Stage           Year      Persons  Field           Represented  1/              Activity  2/
Identification I               01/86             3         15    P0, CONS: E, P
Identification 11              04/86             3          8    PO, CONS: E, P
Preparation                    07/86             3         12    PO, CONS: E, A
Pre-appraisal                  09/86             2          8    E, CONS: E
Appraisal                      12/86             6         12    PO, E, OA, CONS: E, E, PS
Post-Appraisal                 01/87              1         6    CONS: E
0   D   C   M   F
Supervision 1                  10/87             2          5    PO, A                              Not rated
Supervision 2                  03/88              1        10    CONS: E                            Not rated
Supervision 3                  06/88              1        10    PO                              2   1 n.a.  2   2
Supervision 4                  10/88              1         5    PO                                 Not rated
Supervision 5                  06/89             3         10    PO, CONS: E, P                  2   1   2   2   3
Supervision 6                  10/89              1        10    PO                              2   2   2   2   3
Supervision 7                  03/90             3         16    PO, CONS: PH, P                 2   2   2   3   3
Supervision 8                  07/90              1         7    PO                                 Not rated
Supervision 9                  03/91              1        13    PO                              2   2   2   3   2
Supervision 10                 10/91             2          5    PO, RA                          2   2   2   3   2
Comptetion                     01/92             2          8    PO, RA                             Not Rated
1/  A = Architect; E = Economist; OA: Operations Analyst; P = Physician;
PH = PubLic Health Specialist; PO = Project Officer; PS = Pharmaceutical Specialist;
RA = Research Analyst
2/ 0 = OveraLl Status; D a Project Development Objectives; C = Compliance with Legal Covenants;
M: Project Management Performance; F = Availability of Funds.



- 29 -
Annex 1
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
GUINEA-BISSAU
POPULATION. HEALTH AND NUTRITION PROJECT
PARTICIPANTS IN COMPLETION MISSION 1/
October 1991 and January 1992 Missions
World Bank
Ms. Carol Hoppy, Project Officer and Task Manager, AF4PH
Ms. Johanne Angers, Research Analyst, AF4PH
Ministry of Health and Social Affairs
H.E. Henriqueta Godinho Gomes, Minister of Health and Social
Affairs
Dr. Sylvestre Alves, PHN Assistant Project Director
October 1991 Mission
Ministry of Health and Social Affairs
Dr. Celestino Costa, Ex-Secretary of State for Health,
Sr. Augusto Paulo, Chief, Office of Planning and Internation
Cooperation
Sr. Malam Drame, Office of Planning and International Cooperation
Sr. Antonio Paulo Gomes, Office of Planning and International
Cooperation
Dr. Estevao Malam Da Costa, Pharmacist, National Drug Depository
Dr. Paulo Jose Mendes, Director-General, Human Resources
Nurse Maria Augusta Biai, Director, Technical School for Nurses
Dr. Jose Antonio, Director of Public Health
Prof. Deant Kaymah, PHN Project Director
World Health Organization (WHO)
Dr. Erling Larsson, WHO Technical Advisor, Drug Management
1/    A supervision mission was carried out in October 1991 when several
discussions on project's activities were held with key officials.



- 30 -
Annex 2
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
GUINEA-BISSAU
POPULATION, HEALTH AND NUTRITION PROJECT
RECORD OF PROJECT QUARTERLY PROGRESS REPORTS SUBMITTED
1.    May 24, 1988                    PHN Progress Report No. 1 for period
ending May 1988.
2.    October, 1988                   PHN Progress Report No. 2 for period
ending September 1988.
3.    December, 1988                  PHN Quarterly Progress Report No. 3
for period ending December 1988.
4.    March 10, 1989                   PHN Quarterly Progress Report No. 4
for period ending March 1989.
5.    July 8, 1989                    PHN Quarterly Progress Report No. 5
for period ending June 1989.
6.    October 12, 1989                PHN Quarterly Progress Report No. 6
for period ending September 1989.
7.    December 4, 1989                PHN Quarterly Progress Report No. 7
for period ending December 1989.
8.    March 6, 1990                   PHN Quarterly Progress Report No. 8
for period ending March 1990.
9.    June 29, 1990                   PHN Quarterly Progress Report No. 9
for period ending June 1990.
10.   December 15, 1990               PHN Quarterly Progress Report No. 10
for period ending December 1990.
11.   March 15, 1991                  PHN Quarterly Progress Report No. 11
for period ending March 1991.
12.   July 7, 1991                    PHN Quarterly Progress Report No. 12
for period ending June 1991.
13.   October 5, 1991                 PHN Quarterly Progress Report No. 13
for period ending September 1991.
14.   December 28, 1991               PHN Quarterly Progress Report No. 14
for period ending December 1991.



