DOCUMEN_T
CREDIT NUMBER C0O GUB
Development Credit Agreement
(Population Health and Nutrition Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA BISSAU
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                               , 1987


﻿CREDIT NUMBER lOGUB
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated     "   '    &7     2.              , 1987,
between REPUBLIC OF GUINEA-BISSAU (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project; and
WHEREAS (B) the Association has agreed, on the basis inter
alia of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a) "BNG" means the National Bank of Guinea-Bissau;
(b)  "DGE" means Directory General of Statistics, within the
Borrower's Ministry of Plan;
(c) "INEP" means the National Institute of Studies and
Research of the Borrower;
(d) "MINSAP" means the Ministry of Public Health of the
Borrower;
(e) "PHN" means Population, Health and Nutrition;
(f)  "PMU" means Project Management Unit of MINSAP
established by Ministerial Order No. 12/86 issued by the Minister


﻿-2-
of Public Health of the Borrower dated June 7, 1986, as set forth
in Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
(g) "Peso" means the currency of the Borrower;
(h) "Fiscal Year" means the Borrower's fiscal year which
runs from January 1 to December 31;
(i) "Health Center" means any of the health centers of the
Borrower which emphasize provision of primary health care on an
outpatient basis;
(j) "MINSAP Account" means the account referred to in
Section 3.06 of this Agreement;
(k) "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and
(1) "Project Preparation Advance" means the aggregate of the
project preparation advances granted by the Association to the
Borrower pursuant to exchanges of letters dated May 30, 1986 and
July 10, 1986 and January 2, 1987 and March 13, 1987.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the
Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to three million four hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 3,400,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the
reasonable cost of goods and servLces required for the Project
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special account in a commercial
bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to, the Association.
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be
made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement.


﻿-3-
(c) Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
and pay to itself the amount required to repay the principal
amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon.
The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the Project
Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1991 or such
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn
from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from a date
sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agreement to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on April 1 and October 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each April 1
and October 1 commencing October 1, 1997, and ending April 1,
2037. Each installment to and including the installment payable on
April 1, 2007 shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) of such
principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be one and
one-half percent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is


﻿-4-
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through
MINSAP all with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate health management and administrative practices,
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the Project.
(b) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (a) of this
Section, MINSAP will carry out:
(i) Part A.2 (c) of the Project in collaboration with DGE;
and
(ii) Part A.2 (a) (iv) in collaboration with INEP.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to
this Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall not later than October 30 in
each year of execution of the Project review in detail with the
Association MINSAP's:
(a) three-year action program and financial plan;
(b) development and recurrent budget for the following
fiscal year;
(c) organizational structure;
(d) rural supervision procedures;
(e) in-service training program; and
(f) the results of special policy studies and potential new
programs.


﻿-5-
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall, not later than March 31,
1988, take all necessary measures to enact and publish its
national drug policy.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall take all necessary action to
grant to MINSAP the legal exemption established by Decree
No. 51/85 of December 4, 1985 of the Borrower to allow the
retention of 100% of all fees collected by MINSAP in accordance
with the health cost recovery measures implemented.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall, not later than November 30,
1987, establish an account in BNG (the MINSAP Account) on terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Association. All proceeds
accruing from fees collected pursuant to Section 3.05 of this
Agreement shall be deposited in the MINSAP Account.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall:
(a) not later than June 30, 1988, complete and furnish to
the Association for its review and comments, the recommendations
resulting from the studies related to nutrition carried out by the
Borrower pursuant to Part A.2 (a)(ii) of the Project;
(b) not later than January 1, 1989, prepare a national
nutrition policy and action program; and
(c) promptly thereafter exchange views and agree with the
Association on the implementation of said policy and action
program.
Section 3.08. For purposes of Part A.2 (b) of the Project the
Borrower shall identify and propose to the Association activities
and programs to be carried out by the Borrower.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall maintain PMU during the
execution of the Project with such responsibilities, powers,
services, facilities and staff as are specified in Schedule 5 to
this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or


﻿-6-
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.
(b) The Borrower shall:
(i)    have the records and accounts referred to in
paragraph (a) of this Section, including those for
the Special Account for each fiscal year audited,
in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)    furnish to the Association, as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after the
end of each such year, a certified copy of the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope"and in such detail as the Association shall
have reasonably requested; and
(iii)    furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said records, accounts and the audit
thereof as the Association shall from time to time
reasonably request.
(c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)    maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)    retain, until at least one year after the
completion of the audit for the fiscal year in
which the last withdrawal from the Credit Account
was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing
such expenditures;
(iii)    enable the Association's representatives to examine
such records; and
(iv)    ensure that such records and accounts are included
in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
this Section and that the report of such audit
contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to
whether the statements of expenditure submitted


﻿-7-
during such fiscal year, together with the
procedures and internal controls involved in their
preparation, can be relied upon to support the
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely,
that Presidential Decree No. 51/85 of December 4, 1985 of the
Borrower shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed
or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of
MINSAP to collect and retain the proceeds accruing from the
implementation of health cost recovery measures.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified namely
that the event specified in Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall
occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an
additional condition to the effectiveness of the Development
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the
General Conditions, namely, that the Borrower has submitted to the
Association MINSAP's action program and financial plan for 1988/90
incorporating the results of the health cost and cost recovery
study carried out by the Borrower, on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association.
Section 6.02. The date one hundred twenty (120) days after
the date of this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.


﻿-8-
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministerio das Financas
C.P. 67
Bissau, Guine-Bissau
Cable address:                      Telex:
MEF                             257 MF BI
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INDEVAS                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                 248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿-9-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA-BISSAU
By/$ aU Cia L owr4
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
ByA                      S SeAJ4
Regional Vice President
Western Africa


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Cedit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in         Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1) Civil Works             350,000             100% of foreign
expenditures and
40% of local
expenditures
(2) Equipment, fur-         380,000             100% of foreign
niture, vehicles                           expenditures
and materials
(3) Consultants'            400,000             100% of foreign
services and                               expenditures
fellowships
(4) Drugs and               560,000             100% of foreign
medical supplies                           expenditures
(5) Operating costs         340,000             100% of foreign
expenditures and
40% of local
expenditures
(6) Goods and services      220,000             100%
under Part A.2 (b)
of the Project


﻿- 11 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in         Expenditures
Category             SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(7) Refunding of            850,000            Amount due pur-
Project Prepara-                           suant to Section
tion Advance                               2.02 (c) of this
Agreement
(8) Unallocated             300,000
TOTAL             3,400,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower;
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower;
(c) the term "operating costs" means the cost of maintenance
of buildings, vehicles and equipment; non-medical supplies;
contractual services; travel, per diem and salaries of posts
approved by the Association.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
(a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement;
(b) Category (6) until an agreement between the Borrower and
the Association has been reached on activities and programs
proposed by the Borrower and to be undertaken pursuant to Section
3.08 of this Agreement; and


﻿- 12 -
(c) new commitments entered into by the Borrower under the
Project, after January 1 of each year unless the Association has
been satisfied with the annual review of MINSAP's three-year
operational program and financial plan referred to in Section 3.03
(a) of this Agreement.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (i) to improve the
institutional capabilities of MINSAP in planning, management, and
finance; and (ii) to strengthen health and family planning
services, especially at the rural health center level.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Institutional Development
1.   Organization and management:
(a) implementation of MINSAP's reorganization plan;
(b) design and implementation of a management information
system;
(c) implementation of a plan to improve drug system
management; and
(d) development, testing and implementation of a model
system for the supervision of rural health services in the Bafata
region and the Sonaco area of Gabu region.
2.   Planning and Policy Development:
(a) carrying out studies on:
(i)   the hospital sector, including rehabilitation needs;
(ii)  nutrition;
(iii)   family planning;
(iv)   demand for health services at the health center
level;
(v)   energy requirements of the health sector and
alternative sources of energy; and
(vi)   other policy issues to be agreed upon between the
Borrower and the Association;


﻿-14 -
(b) carrying out new activities and programs designed as a
result of the studies referred to in paragraph (a) above; and
(c) improvement of basic PHN data including:
(i)    analysis of the 1979 census;
(ii)    implementation of a national sample survey;
(iii)    creation of a data bank; and
(iv)    training of DGE and MINSAP's staff in statistics.
Part B:   Strengthening Health and Family Planning Services
1.   Support for Rural Health Services:
(a) Strengthening of the 8 Regional Directories and
implementation of supervision and management techniques in the
regions, following the results of the model system referred to in
Part A.1 (d) of the Project;
(b) rehabilitation of about 25 health centers; and
(c) equipping, furnishing and provision of health care
inputs to about 122 health centers.
2.   Health Manpower Development:
Establishment of an in-service training program for about 500
health workers in maternal and child health, epidemiology, family
planning, nutrition, drug prescription/utilization, health and
nutrition education and other health care areas.
The Project is expected to be completed by September 30,
1990.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I. Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Biddin,,
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.   To the extent practicable contracts for furniture, equipment,
vehicles and drugs shall be grouped in bid packages to cost the
equivalent of $75,000 or more each.
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
Guinea-Bissau may be granted a margin of preference in accordance
with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56
of the Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2
thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Local competitive bidding:
Contracts for civil works estimated to cost $75,000
equivalent or less (but, in the aggregate, not exceeding $500,000
equivalent) may be procured on the basis of competitive bidding
advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to
the Association.
2.   Local shopping:
Furniture, equipment, vehicles, materials and supplies
estimated to cost $75,000 equivalent or less (but in the
aggregate, not exceeding $300,000 equivalent) may be procured
under contract awarded on the basis of comparison of price
quotations solicited from a list of at least three suppliers
eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures
satisfactory to the Association.


﻿- 16 -
Part D:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1. Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
(a) With respect to each contract for furniture, equipment,
vehicles, drugs, civil works and goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $75,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to
the Association prior to the making of the first payment out of
the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b) With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed
copies of the contract, together with the other information
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said
paragraph 3, shall be furnished to the Association as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to
this Agreement.
(c) The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts on account of which the
Association has authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account on
the basis of statements of expenditure. Such contracts shall be
retained in accordance with Section 4.01 (c) (ii) of this
Agreement.
3.   The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
In order to assist the Borrower in the optimal execution of
the Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall
be selected in accordance with principles and procedures
satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the "Guidelines
for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the
World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August
1981.


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1)
through (6) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
(b) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in
accordanze with the provisicas of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
and
(c) the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $400,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and
deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments out
of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account may be made as follows:
(a) On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation, the Association shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit in the
Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
for replenishment of the Special Account at such intervals as the
Association shall specify. On the basis of such requests, the
Association shall withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit
into the Special Account such amounts as shall be required to
replenish the Special Account with amounts not exceeding the
amount of payments made out of the Special Account for eligible
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the
Association from the Credit Account under the respective eligible


﻿- 18 -
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall
have been justified by the evidence supporting the request for
such deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account for which the Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, prior to or at the time of such request, such
documents and other evidence as the Association shall reasonably
request, showing that such payment was made for eligible expen-
ditures.
5.   (a) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, no further deposit into the Special Account shall be
made by the Association when either of the following situations
first arises:
(i)    the Association shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower
directly from the Credit Account in accordance with
the provisions of Article V of the General
Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; or
(ii)    the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories for the
Project, minus the amount of any outstanding
special commitment enterod into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions
with respect to the Project, shall be equal to the
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized
Allocation.
(b) Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the
eligible Categories for the Project shall follow such procedures
as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent
that the Association shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.
6.   (a) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for any
expenditure or in any amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule, or (ii) was not justified by the evidence


﻿- 19 -
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association deposit into the
Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment
or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. No further
deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made
until the Borrower has made such deposit or refund.
(b) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such outstanding amount for crediting to the
Credit Account.


﻿-20 -
SCHEDULE 5
Project Management Unit
1.   PMU established in MINSAP shall be responsible for the
overall management of the Project.
2.   PMU shall be headed by a full-time Project Director who shall
report directly to the Minister of Public Health.
3.   PMU shall include, in addition to the Project Director, the
following full-time staff:
(a) an administrative assistant/book-keeper;
(b) a secretary;
(c) a typist;
(d) a messenger; and
(e) two drivers.
4.   The functions of PMU shall include, inter alia, the
following:
(a) liaison with the relevant departments, agencies,
ministries and instrumentalities of the Borrower and with the
Association to ensure the efficient and expeditious implementation
of the Project;
(b) selection of consultants and experts, approval of their
terms of reference, recruitment and administration of their
contracts;
(c) carrying out procurement and disbursement procedures for
goods and services required for the execution of the Project;
(d) preparation of quarterly progress reports to be sent to
the Association not later than 30 days after the end of the
corresponding quarter; and
(e) preparation of the Project completion report required to
be furnished to the Association pursuant to Section 9.06 (c) of
the General Conditions.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIkICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


