Document of
The World Bank                     FILE COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3038a-SE
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
SOCIETE D'EXPLOITATION FERROVIAIRE DES
INDUSTRIES CHIMIQUES DU SENEGAL
WITH THE GUARANTEE
OF THE
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
FOR THE
SEFICS RAIL TRANSPORT PROJECT IN SUPPORT OF THE
ICS FERTILIZER PROJECT
June 1, 1981
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Currency Unit        =        CFA Franc (CFAF)
US$1                 =        CFAF 220
CFAF 1 million       =        US$4,545
The CFA Franc is pegged to the French Franc at the fixed rate of CFAF 1 =
FF 0.02 and floats vis-a-vis the US dollar.
FISCAL YEAR
Government                =    July 1 - June 30
ICS and SEFICS            =    January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS
ADB             African Development Bank
BADEA           Arab Bank for Economic Development in Africa
CCCE            Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique
EIB             European Investment Bank
EMC             Entreprise Miniere et Chimique
FED             European Development Fund
GOS             Government of Senegal
iCS             Industries Chimiques du Senegal
OPEC            Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
RCFS            Regie des Chemins de Fer du Senegal
SEFICS          Societe d'Exploitation Ferroviaire des Industries Chimiques
du Senegal
SIES            Societe Industrielle d'Engrais au Senegal
SONEES          Societe Nationale d'Exploitation des Eaux du Senegal



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
SEFICS RAIL TRANSPORT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:      Societe d'Exploitation Ferroviaire des Industries
Chimiques du Senegal (SEFICS)
Guarantor:     Republic of Senegal
Amount:        US$19.3 million equivalent
Terms:         18 years including 5 years of grace with interest at
9.6 percent p.a ..*
Project
Description:   The major objective of the ICS fertilizer project, which
consists of an Industrial Complex and of a Water Supply System,
proposed to be financed by IFC and other major financial insti-
tutions, is to upgrade Senegal's phosphate rock to produce
phosphoric acid and fertilizers, predominantly for export,
thereby assisting Senegal's efforts to promote productive
investments, notably in export-oriented industries. The
proposed Bank-financed SEFICS rail transport project in support
of the ICS project would ensure a safe and reliable service for
the transport of ICS raw materials, supplies and products. In
addition, it would be a first step towards a reorganization of
RCFS with a view to concentrating its limited managerial and
technical staff resources on improving traffic operations on
the international line between Senegal and Mali. The SEFICS
rail transport project would consist of: (i) the upgrading and
renewal of a main siding track; (ii) the construction of
terminal tracks at ICS plants and at the Port of Dakar; (iii)
the provision, operation and maintenance of mainline and
shunting locomotives and of wagons; and (iv) the construction
and equipping of a workshop to maintain the locomotives and
wagons.
Benefits
and Risks:     The project would provide the most economical transport solu-
tion consistent with required safety and reliability standards
for the transport of highly corrosive chemicals in urban
areas. There are no unusual technical risks associated with
the proposed transport project. The main financial risks are
those that could result from difficulties encountered in the
implementation and operation of the ICS fertilizer project.
These risks, and arrangements proposed to minimize them, are
described in the IFC President's Report IFC/P-444.
*    In addition SEFICS would pay to the Republic of Senegal a guarantee fee
of 1.0 percent p.a. on all proceeds of the Bank loan with the exception
of those to finance improvements in RCFS' facilities.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Cost:
Local      Foreign        Total
----US$ million- ---
Fixed Assets
Upgrading and Renewal of Main
Siding Track                            1.09         1.57         2.66
Construction of Terminal Tracks           0.69         3.19         3.88
Equipment (locomotives, wagons)             -          8.26         8.26
Maintenance Workshop                      0.21         1.82         2.03
Contingencies
Physical                             0.11         1.00         1.11
Price                               0.26          1.87         2.13
Total Fixed Assets*                       2.36        17.71        20.07
Other Costs
Studies, Supervision, Start-up             0.12         0.50         0.62
Initial Working Capital                    0.12         0.23         0.35
Total Other Costs                          0.24         0.73         0.97
Interest and Guarantee Fees during
Construction                             0.22         2.12         2.34
Total Financing Requirement:               2.82        20.56        23.38
* The Government of Senegal has exempted the project from all taxes and duties.
Financing Plan:
Local      Foreign        Total
----US$ million- -  ---
Bank Loan                                   -         19.3         19.3
ICS - equity in SEFICS                    1.8          1.3          3.1
RCFS - equity in SEFICS                   0.3            -          0.3
GOS - capital grant to RCFS               0.5            -          0.5
GOS - capitalized guarantee fees          0.2          _            0.2
Total                                2.8        20.6         23.4
Estimated Disbursements:
FY82        FY83        FY84
-----US$ million----
Annual                                    3.5          8.1         7.7
Cumulative                                3.5         11.6        19.3
Rate of Return:  Overall economic rate of return of 13.5 percent for the ICS
fertilizer project together with the SEFICS rail transport
project.
IFC/Bank Staff Appraisal Report:              Report No:  IFC/T-369
Map: IBRD No. 15748



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO SOCIETE
D'EXPLOITATION FERROVIAIRE DES INDUSTRIES CHIMIQUES DU SENEGAL
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL FOR ThiE SEFICS
RAIL TRANSPORT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to Societe d'Exploitation Ferroviaire des Industries Chimiques du Senegal
(SEFICS) with the guarantee of the Republic of Senegal for the equivalent of
US$19.3 million. The loan would have a term of 18 years including 5 years of
grace, with interest at 9.6 percent p.a.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A report entitled "The Economic Trends and Prospects of Senegal"
(1720a-SE) was distributed to the Executive Directors on March 10, 1980,
followed by a President's Report for a structural adjustment loan/credit
(P-2869a-SE) dated November 26, 1980, containing an expanded section on the
economic situation. The following paragraphs reflect the conclusions of
these reports. Country data appear in Annex I.
Economic Structure and Past Developments
3.        Three-quarters of Senegal's territory lies in the Sahel zone, which
suffers from low rainfall and periodic droughts. The mainstay of the tradi-
tional economy is millet cultivation and nomadic cattle-raising for domestic
consumption, and groundnut cultivation for exports. Soils are generally
poor, and periodically food shortages occur in the months between the sowing
and harvesting of the next crop. The large river basins--some of them fed
in the tropical rain zone--have so far been exploited only marginally. Land
distribution is fairly even. In the western part of the country arable land
is becoming scarce, but in the extreme southeast some good land is still
available. The modern sector of the economy is concentrated in Dakar, the
capital, a city of about one million inhabitants, the economic base of which
consists of excellent port facilities, an important industrial sector, and a
small but fast-growing tourism industry. With a population of 5.5 million,
Senegal's per capita GNP for 1979 was estimated at US$430.
4.        During the 1960s, the Senegalese economy experienced virtual
stagnation as real output increased at a rate estimated at 2.7 percent per
annum, hardly more than the population.  Two factors were responsible for
this situation. Firstly, with independence, Senegal lost its privileged
position as the center of French West Africa, and subsequently had to adapt
to its reduced economic, administrative, and political position. Secondly,
in the latter part of the decade, production of groundnuts (its principal
export) fell, due to unfavorable weather and declining export prices.



-2-
5.        In the 1970s, Senegal's narrow-based export sector was hit by sharp
fluctuations in volumes and prices, and even with the achievement of higher
rates of both private and public investment, average annual growth was not
raised above the earlier 10 years' level. Output and incomes were depressed
in 1972 and 1973 by the Sahel's most severe drought in over a century, which
brought a decline in real national income. Thereafter, when weather condi-
tions improved, the purchasing power of the rural population was substantially
restored and both agricultural and industrial production increased markedly.
However, the late 1970s saw another series of bad crops, which adversely
affected the economy in 1978 and 1980 and will in 1981 also. The magnitude of
these downswings is reflected in the variations in groundnut crops; from a
historical record of 1.45 million tons in 1975/76, output fell to less than
0.6 million tons in 1977/78; it recovered to about 1.0 million tons in 1978/79,
but fell again, to less than 0.8 million tons in 1979/80 and to a new low of
about 0.5 million tons in 1980/81. Industrial output (excluding groundnut
processing) did grow at a fairly even rate of about 5 percent a year. After
recovery from the earlier droughts, real GDP increased at about 5 percent
between 1973 and 1977, but in 1978 it is estimated to have declined by 9
percent reflecting the effect of the 1977/78 drought; similarly, due to the
mediocre crops in 1979/80, it remained below its 1977 level in 1980.
6.        The large fluctuations in physical production were aggravated by
the price movements of Senegal's major export and import commodities. In
1974, the terms of trade improved by over 21 percent, because of exceptionally
high prices for phosphate rock, Senegal's second export commodity, but in 1975
export prices for groundnuts declined sharply, followed in 1976 by a fall
in the export prices for phosphate rock; the recent increase in oil prices
brought a further deterioration in the terms of trade, causing a total loss in
income since 1974 of roughly 5 percent of GDP. These swings in international
prices, together with the fluctuations in output, had serious consequences for
domestic prices, public finance and balance of payments.
Public Finance
7.        The Government has shown some flexibility in adapting its financial
policies to changes in the economic environment. In 1974, the retail prices
for rice, sugar and groundnut oil were raised by 40 to 90 percent in order to
reduce consumer subsidies that had ballooned following the price hikes for
these commodities on the world market. Government also aligned producer
prices for groundnuts closer to world prices which were particularly high at
that time. The loss of revenue to the Treasury because of this latter step
was expected to be compensated by additional revenues from the phosphate
mine, such as an 80 percent excess profits tax and dividends from increased
ownership. In 1974, the phosphate price quadrupled, and in 1974 and 1975,
Government did indeed receive high revenues from phosphates amounting to
roughly US$45 million a year, or 12 percent of tax receipts.
8.        Public savings after debt service rose from a yearly average of
US$25 million during 1971-73, to US$46 million during 1974-76. This higher



- 3 -
level of public savings was doubtless an important factor in stimulating
Government to increase public investment outlays from a yearly average of
US$24 million to US$49 million during the same two periods. In addition,
however, Government purchases of equity and lending to domestic enterprises
increased sharply, mainly because of the increased participation in the
phosphate mine and the acquisition of two foreign-owned public utility
companies. The total capital outlays of the Government were thus substan-
tially in excess of public savings, and were financed in large part through
medium-term foreign bank loans. As a consequence, foreign debt service
borne by the Government increased from US$8 million in 1972/73 to US$38
million in 1975/76, representing about 10 percent of its revenues.
9.        A sudden fall in world phosphate prices in 1976 eliminated Govern-
ment revenues from this source. In the following year, Government raised
tax rates, limited recurrent expenditures, and undertook some new commercial
borrowing for its investment program. When it became clear that the 1977/78
crop would fail, Government endeavored to avoid famine in the countryside
and maintain rural incomes by importing more cereals and absolving farmers
debts; however, the added financial burden which these measures entailed was
not accompanied by reductions in capital expenditures, which were financed
through heavy commercial borrowing amounting to US$122 million in 1977 and
US$200 million in 1978. As a consequence, in 1980, when grace periods
were over, debt service obligations of the budget reached about US$145
million (or 19.5 percent of Government revenues).
10.       In August 1978, the National Assembly was called from summer recess
to approve a new fiscal package amounting to US$20 million in additional
revenues. The 1978/79 budget presented a tax reform aimed at removing tariff
distortions and administrative deficiencies, which also increased Government
receipts through reductions in exemptions. Further tax measures in 1980/81
will bring the ratio of Government receipts to GDP to 29 percent, as compared
to 19 percent in 1970/71 and 23 percent in 1976/77.
Balance of Payments
11.       Since 1973 the balance of payments has been under heavy pressure,
resulting in a very large negative balance in the net foreign assets by the
end of 1980. Underlying the deterioration in the external accounts is the
sluggish growth of exports combined with fast growing imports, leading to
increasing current account deficits that could not be covered anymore by
the normal flow of concessionary aid and an acceptable level of commercial
borrowing. Between 1974 and 1976 exceptionally high phosphate revenues
slowed the deterioration in the current account, but Government-s purchases of
large participations in existing enterprises, created considerable outflows of
private foreign capital, and foreign reserves were not replenished. Tb
deterioration in the external accounts accelerated in 1978, fueled by losses
in groundnut revenues, strong import demand and the oil price hike, and could
not be arrested by EEC STABEX fund receipts and commercial borrowings. At the
end of 1979, net foreign assets stood at minus US$319 million, including
drawings on the IMF of US$61 million. The balance of payments picture in 1980



- 4 -
was characterized by a loss in groundnut revenues of almost US$200 million,
partly due to the small harvest and partly to exceptionally low world market
prices. Moreover the net effect of the 1979 increase in petroleum prices was
close to US$90 million. The resulting deficit on the current account was
partly absorbed by the first tranche of an exceptional international aid
package amounting to almost US$200 million, of which US$56 million by the IMF
in the form of drawings on the Extended Fund Facility, taking some pressure
off the monetary union and the commercial banks. At the end of 1980, net
foreign assets stood at minus US$407 million.
12.       Although exogenous factors such as droughts and variations in
world market prices explain part of the fall in net foreign assets since
1973, it is also due to more perennial factors such as sluggish growth of
export volumes, slow drawings on public aid commitments, increasing debt
service related to heavy reliance on commercial funds, and excessively
expansionary monetary policies. Senegal's basic problem has been the failure
of production and exports to respond to higher investment levels and other
expansionary policies.
Covernment's Economic and Financial Rehabilitation Program
13.       In December 1979, during his annual speech to the National Assembly,
the Prime Minister explained the urgency of modifying prevailing tendencies
in the economy, and outlined a medium-term stabilization and rehabilitation
program. This program was informally but extensively discussed with the Bank
and the Fund and provided the basis for an agreement with the IMF for the
purchase of US$243 million equivalent in currency under the Extended Fund
Facility, an agreement which was approved by the IMF Board in August 1980, and
a US$60 million structural adjustment loan/credit approved by the Board on
December 18, 1980. The letter of intent from the Government to the IMF and
the statement of economic policy sent to the Bank emphasized various aspects
of the Government-s program. The global objectives of the Government's
program are to stabilize the economy during the first two of the five years
and to achieve a modestly higher rate of economic growth of 4 percent a year
in the following three years.
14.       Under the program, public savings after debt service would in-
crease from about 1 percent of GDP in 1978/79 to over 3 percent of GDP in
1985, mainly through a freeze of recurrent expenditures in real terms. This
savings target would allow the Treasury to finance at least 15 percent of
the public investment program in the near future, to be improved to 25
percent by 1985. The 15 percent minimum contribution serves as a planning
basis and is likely to be exceeded in favorable years, but may fall short
in years of bad crops such as in 1981. Consequently, financing of local
costs by foreign donors for specific projects is likely to be essential.
15.       Increased private savings will be encouraged by the 2.5 percentage
points increase in interest rates on deposits and savings certificates (an
increase that was introduced in May 1980 together with a similar increase in
the rediscount rate of the Central Bank), and through the allocation of
preferential housing loans to borrowers with good savings performance. In



- 5 -
rural areas, the savings of farmers will be mobilized.  However, the bulk of
private savings will have to come from private enterprises. To achieve this
goal, the Government has eased price policies and tightened credit policies, in
particular for non-productive projects.
16.       Recognizing that the recent bad crops and the ongoing savings drive
will dampen domestic demand and that production costs in Senegal are high
compared with foreign competition, the Government is taking steps to provide
more protection to domestic producers by raising import duties while achieving
greater uniformity in their application, and by subsidizing export industries
with excess capacity. This policy allows for the fact that parity of the
local currency is fixed in the framework of the monetary union to which
Senegal belongs, and therefore cannot be changed except by agreement of the
West African Monetary Union as a whole.
17.       The level of investments is being reduced somewhat to facilitate
economic stabilization but is planned to increase moderately over the
five-year period of the Rehabilitation Plan. The emphasis of Government's
program is on a shift of total investments toward more productive projects.
A minimum rate-of-return requirement will weed out the less viable projects
in the public sector, and an improvement in the incentives for private
investors is expected to encourage private undertakings. The propensity to
invest in Senegal is still low because of limited domestic markets and high
production costs, and following the period of active state intervention,
private entrepreneurs have tended to seek Government participation or loan
guarantees for new ventures, to reduce their risks.
18.       The parapublic sector (public enterprises and mixed companies)
represents a serious drain on Government finances and will be placed on a
sounder footing through the conclusion of medium-term program contracts
("contrats-plans") between the Government and individual parapublic enter-
prises, that aim at setting sector objectives and reducing present levels
of budgetary support. More scope will be given to these enterprises to
adjust tariffs to more economic levels. Government's program imposes ceil-
ings on commercial borrowing abroad and restricts its use to enterprises
and projects that generate a sufficient cash flow to service such debt.  The
program introduced a fee for Government guarantees on debts of mixed enter-
prises. Treasury advances and loans to mixed enterprises in financial diffi-
culties have been drastically reduced and made conditional on the conclusion
of a program contract.
19.       In the agricultural sector, the liabilities resulting from the
uncovered recurrent expenditures of parapublic enterprises had accumulated
to the extent that the Treasury and, indirectly, the money and credit system
were threatened. Moreover, because of weak management, some public institu-
tions had become an obstacle to project implementation. In August 1980,
Government dissolved the central cooperative organization (ONCAD) which
controlled individual cooperatives, as well as the delivery of agricultural
inputs, the extension of agricultural credits and the marketing of crops,
restoring some of its functions to the private sector. The cooperatives
will be reorganized to assume responsibilities for agricultural credit and



- 6 -
seedstocks, and to allow greater farmer participation. Technical assistance
to cooperatives would in future be provided by the regional rural development
agencies that are in charge of extension services to the farmers. The remain-
ing parapublic agencies in the agricultural sector will also be reorganized
with a view to restore their financial soundness and increase their opera-
tional efficiency. Subsidies on agricultural inputs were removed with the
exception of those for fertilizer for which substantial reductions are now
being considered. The agricultural reform will also lead to a substantial
reduction in the number of staff, reduce the annual deficits that have been
supported by the budget, and may eventually allow higher net revenues to
farmers.
20.       The structural adjustment program agreed with the Bank on the
basis of the above Rehabilitation Program had a slow start as a result of:
(a) a change in Government in early 1981; (b) a record low 1980/81 crop;
and (c) steep increases in the price of imported rice. The new Government
restated the general objectives of the program but focussed, during the first
four months in office, on the economic and financial crisis caused by the bad
crop. Short-term targets and policy measures had to be adapted to the new
situation; details on establishment of these measures were discussed with the
International Monetary Fund in the framework of agreements under the Extended
Fund Facility, drawings on which were temporarily blocked in the absence of
agreed credit ceilings for 1981. Some additional issues existed concerning
the Government's price policies: after levying a "solidarity tax" on urban
wages to finance emergency food supplies for the rural population, the Govern-
ment thought it could not increase basic food prices by implementing the
scheduled 15 percent import duty on rice intended to protect local cereal
producers, and even accepted some temporary food subsidies to cushion the
impact of rising world prices on the cost of living. Within the agricultural
reform program, the tests to build autonomous village sections within the
agricultural cooperatives were delayed as well as the introduction of a new
credit system based on these units, mainly because the new administration had
to prepare emergency measures before undertaking new programs. On the other
hand, progress was made in the field of investment planning and establishment
of program contracts with parastatal enterprises. The system of export premia
for five test products was set up, but with retroactive payments of the premia
later in the fiscal year. In view of the delays in execution of the structural
adjustment program, the Bank postponed release of the second tranche of the
Loan/Credit; a paper was circulated to the Executive Directors on May 4, 1981,
explaining this delay.
Long-term Prospects
21.       The Government's long-range development strategy continues to be
based on the promotion and diversification of agriculture and export-oriented
activities. The agricultural program calls for the development of areas less
afflicted by drought (Casamance and Eastern Senegal), where cash crops other
than groundnuts can be grown. Irrigated cereal production is being developed
in the arid northern part of the country along the Senegal River. This
approach will make the country less dependent on the uncertainties of its
climate, and reduce the heavy burden of food imports. The overhaul of insti-



- 7 -
tutions in the groundnut sector is expected to restore production to previous
levels within a few years, and even to increase production by 1.8 percent a
year if, in the medium term, the groundnut prices paid to the farmer can be
raised as expected. Agricultural research will be oriented more to farm
systems than to individual crops, with the objective of lowering the costs of
the agricultural techniques propagated, and better adaptation to farmers'
needs.
22.        The Government also aims at a modest expansion of phosphate mining,
and development of light export industries and tourism; moreover, construction
of a ship-repair yard is almost completed, and implementation of the ICS ferti-
lizer project is due to start in July 1981. However, with limited prospects
for export growth in the groundnut sector, and because of the modest scale of
the export subsidy scheme, no spectacular improvements in export performance
can be expected. Government counts heavily on the implementation of a number
of large investments in irrigation to diminish the heavy dependence on rice
imports. However, since such investments have long gestation periods and are
difficult to implement, a cautious view of the long-term outlook is warranted.
Even if economic growth could be raised to a modest 4 percent a year between
1982 and 1985, the annual growth rate between 1977 and 1985, because of the
decline in GDP in 1978 and 1980, would probably not exceed 2.4 percent a year,
which is still below population growth.
23.        The economic and financial rehabilitation plan, and the exceptional
foreign aid based on it will help Senegal to overcome the effects of the
recent bad crops, the higher oil prices, and the high debt service built up
over the past five years. Strict implementation of this plan is therefore
crucial for Senegal's prospects for economic growth and creditworthiness.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN SENEGAL
24.        The Bank Group has had 50 operations in Senegal to date.  Total
outstanding funds amount to US$364.1 million, including 26 IDA credits, 14
Bank loans, four blends of Bank and IDA funds, four IFC operations, one blend
of Bank and IFC funds, and one blend of Bank, IDA and IFC funds. Annex II
contains a summary statement of Bank loans, IDA credits, and IFC investments
as of March 31, 1981, and notes on the implementation of ongoing projects.
Physical execution of these projects is progressing reasonably well, although
some operations are affected by the shortage of counterpart funds due to the
Government's continuing difficult public finance situation, as well as by ldck
of qualified local staff for key positions. But institutional bottlenecks
in several sectors constitute the largest obstacle to efficient project
implementation.
25.        The Government is well aware of the need to increase absorptive
capacity and particularly of the importance of assuring good management
supervision of projects in all sectors. In this respect, the ongoing Para-
public Sector Technical Assistance Project initiates and implements measures
necessary to resolve on a sectorwide basis some of the issues regarding



- 8 -
financial management and Government control of public enterprises and mixed
companies, particularly those that are channels for Bank Group assistance.
The Government created in late 1978 an Inter-ministerial Committee (Comite de
Relance des Investissements) which works closely with foreign aid donors, to
expedite preparation of new investment projects, and to identify bottlenecks
in project execution and take remedial action. The work of this committee has
already begun to produce some positive results, and will be strengthened under
the Technical Assistance Project for Economic and Financial Planning approved
in August 1980, through reinforcement of its secretariat.
26.       The Bank Group's share in total external aid disbursements to
Senegal over 1979-85 will stay at around 12 percent, of which roughly 52 per-
cent in IDA financing. The Bank Group's share in outstanding disbursed debt
was 18 percent in 1979, and will remain at around that level until 1985. The
Bank Group's share in public debt service is expected to increase from 3.8
percent in 1980 to about 7 percent in 1985, a rise which is mainly due to the
increase in Bank loans from 32 percent of the Bank Group's total outstanding
and disbursed funds to about 41 percent by 1985.
27.       The Bank Group's project financing and economic and sector work,
which is designed to support the Government's development strategy, has six
main objectives. First, priority continues to be given to rural development,
including development of irrigation in the Senegal River Valley Region,
rainfed agriculture in the well-watered southern regions of the country, and
intensification of groundnut production and diversification into new crops and
new regions. This effort of diversification has led the Bank Group to finance
a Small Rural Operations Project in FY80, a reforestation project earlier this
year and a project designed to improve agricultural research will be submitted
to the Board in the near future. Agricultural lending over the next few years
is expected to account for about 20 percent of the total.  Second, the Bank
Group has supported diversification of the economy by lending to the growing
industrial sector through SOFISEDIT for which a third line of credit was re-
cently approved, and through the proposed SEFICS rail transport project in
support of the ICS Fertilizer Project, a major phosphoric acid/fertilizer
complex. Diversification of the economy is also pursued through an ongoing
project for the development of tourism infrastructure.  Third, Bank Group
projects have supported modernization and expansion (where economically
desirable) of the country's infrastructure through lending to the four modes
of transport. An engineering project approved in FY79 finances studies and
technical assistance for water supply and sanitation development in eleven
secondary centers and is paving the way for Bank Group involvement in that
sector. Similarly a Power Engineering Project should identify possibilities
for Bank financing in this sector. Fourth, assistance in the field of social
services is being provided under the Third Education Project approved in FY79
to help the Government re-orient and expand the country's education system at
all levels. Bank strategy in the education sector has focused on meeting the
need for trained high- and middle-level managers and technicians in the modern
sector and in agriculture and improving access to primary education, particu-
larly in rural areas. The Bank remains conscious of the need to support the
social services (within the limits of the Government-s ability to bear the
recurrent costs involved) by preparing carefully identified projects; to that



- 9 -
end, a proposed Primary Health Care Project is under preparation.  Fifth, the
energy sector is being supported through the use of funds under the Project
Preparation Facility for the preparation of an offshore oil exploration
project. Finally, continuing assistance is being provided to help Government
increase its absorptive capacity for planning, executing, and managing devel-
opment projects through institutional support within individual Bank Group
projects. Several Bank Group operations, notably in tourism, telecommunica-
tions, port infrastructure, loans to SOFISEDIT, and in airport development,
have the additional merit of generating revenues for the Senegalese Treasury.
28.       While project aid is vital, Senegal's long-observed economic
stagnation and the deep-seated proLlems that have culminated in the present
crisis call for additional, special remedies. One is economic advice. In
1979, for instance, the Bank helped Government devise a policy package aimed
at improving the balance of payments while maintaining whatever growth
momentum was left in the economy, through waste reductions, cutting consumer
subsidies, and higher taxes on urban dwellers, rather than through cuts in
groundnut producer prices or curtailing productive investments. Second,
and far more importantly, Government's needs for financial and technical
assistance during the period of structural adjustment are being addressed
under the ongoing Loan/Credit operation (paras. 13-20).
PART III - THE TRANSPORT SECTOR AND THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR
Transport
29.       Senegal has a fairly well-developed transport system concentrated in
the Cap Vert Peninsula and the Groundnut Basin farther to the east, which are
the areas with the largest population and economic activity. Roads, the
principal mode of domestic transport, carry about 75 percent of commercial
inter-urban passenger and freight traffic, excluding phosphates. The railway
system consists of a main line from Dakar to the Mali border, and several
branch lines. Traffic at the Port of Dakar, mainly phosphates, petroleum,
general merchandise, and international traffic for Mali and to a limited
extent Mauritania, has doubled over the last ten years, and now totals about
six million tons annually. The Dakar airport is a major international transit
point for Europe-Africa-South America traffic. Three secondary seaports and
18 regional airports and airfields are located outside the Cap Vert region.
Traffic volumes on the three navigable rivers are modest and gradually being
lost to road transport.
30.       Government-s transport strategy focuses on:  (i) developing local
transport infrastructure in support of overall economic growth, particularly
in the agriculture sector; (ii) promoting regional integration; and (iii)
maintaining the already extensive assets in the sector. Transport planning
and coordination are shared by three ministries: the Ministry of Planning and
Cooperation assumes overall responsibility for preparation of development
plans; the Ministry of Finance and Economic Affairs authorizes commitments,



- 10 -
determines the structure and level of taxes levied on transport services and
maintains financial supervision of state-owned transport enterprises; the
Ministry of Equipment proposes and executes the Government's transport policy.
With Bank Group assistance, the Government has started preparing a National
Transport Plan as a first step in strengthening the transport planning
institutions.
31.        Bank Group operations in the sector have helped to establish the
basic transport infrastructure, and to organize its maintenance. Total
lending equivalent to US$104.3 million has helped finance five projects for
highway construction and maintenance, three directed toward improving the
railway infrastructure and increasing locomotive hauling capacity, two in
aviation for major improvements to the Dakar Airport and for modernization of
two important domestic airports, and two for construction and extension works
at the Port of Dakar. Projects in the highway, aviation and port subsectors
have been executed satisfactorily in general and, to a large extent, the Bank
has been able through these operations to assist the Government in reaching
sectoral objectives. Little success has been achieved however in the railway
subsector, as described below. Details on execution of these projects are
given in Annex II.
The Railway Subsector
32.        The railway comprises about 660 km of mainline between Dakar and
the Mali border and 374 km of branch lines. It is operated by the Regie des
Chemins de Fer du Senegal (RCFS), a public enterprise. In FY80 the Regie
carried about 1.7 million tons of freight, the bulk of which is phosphates
from the Taiba and Thies mines to Dakar port and transit traffic to Mali. The
railway has traditionally been the dominant carrier of domestic freight, but
due to deteriorating service and efficiency, it has recently lost its position
to the road transport, particularly for shorter hauls. The Bank Group has
financed three railroad projects (Credit 96-SE, 1966; Credit 314/ Loan 835-SE,
1972; and Loan 1518-SE, 1978). An audit report on the First Senegal Railway
Project was issued by the Operations Evaluation Department on January 10,
1977. An audit of the Second Senegal Railway Project is also under prepara-
tion. The first two projects concentrated on improvements in physical infra-
structure, while the third project, now under execution, lays emphasis on
improving the Regie's organizational and financial management and on technical
assistance and training programs.
33.        The overall results however, have been disappointing.  The central
issues, confirmed as well by the earlier audits, continue to be limited man-
agerial and technical staff resources, low productivity, inefficiency, poor
staff morale, and lack of discipline. As a consequence, the railway is
plagued with major operational problems, poor locomotive and wagon turn-
around, and an inability to handle available traffic, particularly interna-
tional traffic to and from Mali.
34.        The railway continues to be the most economic regional transit
route for most of Mali's international traffic. Yet, mainly due to its
present inefficiencies, poor service, and lack of coordination with the Mali
railways, which suffer from similar operational problems, as much as 50



- 11 -
percent of Malian traffic has recently been using the more expensive, longer-
haul, road-rail transit route via Abidjan. The other major function of the
Senegal railway is haulage of the bulk phosphate traffic from Taiba and Thies
to Dakar, for which the road alternative would worsen congestion in the
Dakar-Thies corridor and increase road maintenance costs due to heavy loading
of phosphate trucks. The railways general cargo and short-haul passenger
traffic have declined substantially during the past decade, in face of severe
competition from the rapidly expanding privately-run road transport services.
35.       In light of the above considerations, an organizational structure
study under the ongoing project threw open several possible options for
restructuring RCFS operations. The proposals ranged from total reintegration
of Senegal and Mali railways, to the creation of a number of autonomous opera-
tional units specialized in the main traffic categories, viz., phosphates,
international freight and passenger traffic, and other traffic, linked with
a central entity to maintain the rail infrastructure. While the latter alter-
native appears to be politically unacceptable and operationally difficult to
achieve in its entirety, particularly for the international traffic, the for-
mer gained some political backing, but it is equally fraught with operational
and organizational difficulties of implementation. The Government has chosen
to follow a more prudent middle course in order to permit RCFS to streamline
its current operations and establish interim working-level arrangements
for international traffic operations with the Mali railway.
36.       It is with these basic objectives that the Government decided
to treat the exacting transport requirements of the ICS project as an enclave
operation and as a first step in the restructuring of railway operations. In
view of the higher costs, high risks and inconvenience of transporting corro-
sive acid and other bulk chemicals by road, and the railway-s limited manage-
rial and technical staff resources to satisfactorily handle the delicate ICS
traffic, the Government decided on creation of the new entity, SEFICS, for
this purpose. The Government also intends to have SEFICS eventually take over
transport of the short-haul phosphate traffic from RCFS, thereby fulfilling
one of its objectives in the reorganization of RCFS, i.e. a streamlining
railway operation.
37.       As far as its other and principal objective, the Government has
examined with Bank assistance, the case for setting up a formal working-level
arrangement with the Mali railway. Discussions have also been held with the
Malian authorities, as a result of which the two railways are now taking steps
to create a Cooperative Management Service (Service de gestion cooperative)
with the sole objective of running all international services on a joint basis
using the total available locomotive and wagon pool. As the international
freight traffic provides over 50 percent of the Senegal railways revenues,
these arrangements for running the international service would be partirilarly
beneficial. At the same time, the creation of SEFICS to handle the transport
of ICS products and eventually of all short-haul bulk phosphate traffic, would
help pave the way for a better structuring of RCFS operations and ensure
safety and reliability for the ICS traffic.



- 12 -
The Industrial Sector
38.       Senegal has a somewhat larger industrial base than many African
countries, with the secondary sector contributing about 24 percent of GDP in
1980. Average growth of the industrial sector since 1960 has, however, been
modest. Industrial development has been based on the processing of primary
products (phosphate, cement, groundnut oil), and the substitution of manu-
factured imports.
39.       The Government's intervention in the industrial sector since the
1960s has focused on: (a) developing a few small Senegalese enterprises in
the traditional sector with the objective of graduating them into the modern
sector; (b) requiring foreign enterprises to make an effort to replace expa-
triate staff with Senegalese personnel; and (c) imposing general wage and
employment policies in response to pressures from labor unions. The latter
measure resulted in rapid production cost increases, thereby limiting the
ability of the industrial sector to compete outside the domestic market.
40.       In the early 1970s, the Government tried to play a more active role
in promotion of the industrial sector. Efforts were made, in collaboration
with private enterprises, to encourage the development of export industries.
However, while Senegal has been able to develop what has become a very success-
ful hotel and tourism industry, most of the other initiatives have remained
rather sporadic, with not very encouraging results. In fact, the promotion of
private enterprises and export industries will never yield substantial results
unless prospective investors are offered a comprehensive package of incentives
to compensate them for the high production costs of Senegalese industry,
including labor costs.
41.       Having failed to stimulate private investment, the Government turned
to a policy of direct public investment in industry and other sectors. This
was made possible by the sharp rise in phosphate prices (from US$12 per ton in
1972 to US$67 per ton in 1975), which allowed for a considerable increase in
export revenues and public savings, and enabled Government to borrow heavily
on the Eurodollar market. A substantial part of these new resources was used
by Government to acquire majority ownership in several foreign-owned private
enterprises, including the Taiba Phosphate Mining Company, two public utility
companies, and a wide variety of smaller firms. It created a new public
agency (SONACOS) with the monopoly for the export of groundnut products (oil
and cakes), and new contracts with the private crushing mills were concluded
that provided for the gradual transfer of their assets to Government.
42.       The results of these policies were not impressive, both because the
industry's cost structure remained an obstacle to the industrial exploitation
of local resources, and inefficiencies developed in the state-controlled
enterprises. Moreover, the Ministry of Industrial Development and Artisans,
which is responsible for designing and executing Government's industrial
policy has had difficulties in articulating a coherent sector strategy.



- 13 -
43.        From 1979, as part of its efforts to combat economic stagnation
(see paras. 13-23), Government decided to:  (aJ promote manufacturing activi-
ties based on more intensive use of local resources, through protection and
incentives; (b) increase the proportion of directly productive investments in
its Plan; and (c) welcome private and foreign capital.
44.        Although the industrial sector suffers from Senegal½s current
economic difficulties, further growth in manufacturing is indeed possible
through rehabilitation and expansion of existing firms, new import substitu-
tion opportunities and some export-oriented investments.  The ICS project
would meet several of the new policy criteria. The Industrial Complex would
consist of a 720 t/day phosphoric acid plant located at the phosphate mine at
Taiba and of a new fertilizer plant near Dakar. The Water Supply System would
consist of a 20-km pipeline and other water investments necessary for the
phosphoric acid plant. By upgrading domestic phosphate rock, that would
otherwise have to be exported in raw form, the project would earn US$10
million net in foreign exchange annually, and, at full production, would
account for 7 percent of Senegal's industrial value added.  Thus,. the project
is the best available opportunity for locally transforming a raw material into
exportable products of higher value. The project comes at a moment when
Senegal is facing serious export difficulties in the groundnut sector and thus
would provide essential support to the balance of payments.  While phosphate
fertilizer processing industries have traditionally been located in the
consuming countries, the ICS project would follow a recent trend toward
locating new manufacturers near the source of raw material.  Senegal has a
comparative advantage in this respect as significant savings in freight can be
derived by shipping phosphoric acid and concentrated fertilizer intermediates
rather than phosphate rock.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
45.        The ICS fertilizer project was identified some five years ago.  The
Government requested IFC's assistance in defining the project concept and
setting up the financing plan. Preparation and appraisal by IFC and other
major institutions took over three years. In view of the Bank's knowledge of
the railway sector in Senegal, the Government and IFC requested Bank assis-
tance in financing a second project to complement the first. Appraisal of the
rail transport project was carried out in October 1980 and February 1981.
Negotiations were held in May 1981 with a delegation led by His Excellency
Louis Alexandrenne, Minister of Planning and Cooperation. The IFC/Bank Staff
Appraisal Report, No. IFC/T-369, is being circulated separately to the
Executive Directors. Annex III indicates the timetable of key events in
project preparation and processing. Map IBRD No. 15748 shows the transport
system in Senegal.



- 14 -
Project Objectives and Description
46.       The major objective of the project is to provide the most economical
transport solution to carry the raw materials, supplies and products of the
ICS fertilizer project with the safety and reliability required for a large
enclave industrial project. By providing this service through a separate
operating entity (SEFICS, a majority-owned subsidiary of ICS), the SEFICS rail
transport project would be in strong support of the ICS fertilizer project.
The project is expected to be completed over the period 1981-1984.
47.       To achieve the above objective, the proposed project would include:
(a) the upgrading and renewal of about 6 km of siding track of RCFS
serving the ICS fertilizer plant at Mbao;
(b) the construction of terminal track works, including track side
fittings, at Mbao, Darou Khoudoss and the Port of Dakar;
(c) the procurement, operation and maintenance of 3 mainline locomo-
tives, 3 shunting locomotives, about 50 tank wagons, and about 30
hopper wagons, and the provision of initial spare parts for this
equipment; and
(d) the construction and equipping of a workshop at Darou Khoudoss
to maintain the locomotives and wagons.
Project Implementation
48.       The project would be executed by the Societe d'Exploitation Ferro-
viaire des Industries Chimiques du Senegal (SEFICS), a subsidiary of ICS.
SEFICS has been duly incorporated, under Senegalese law, as a joint stock
company with limited liability, with an initial capital of CFAF 500,000, to
be raised to CFAF 750 million by June 30, 1983 (Section 2.01(a) of the draft
Shareholders' Agreement). SEFICS' purpose is to become the operating entity
responsible for ensuring the transport of all ICS products. Shares in the
capital of SEFICS are owned 91 percent by ICS and 9 percent by RCFS.
49.       SEFICS would execute the entire rail transport project, including
the rehabilitation of a main siding track which would remain the property of
RCFS. This latter arrangement would be covered by a Financing Agreement
between SEFICS and RCFS providing for the use of part of the proceeds of the
proposed Bank loan for this purpose and specifying the repayment arrangements
from RCFS to SEFICS (para. 53). The execution of siding track works would be
by RCFS labor force supplemented by local labor contractors and supervised by
SEFICS and RCFS engineers. SEFICS would own the terminal tracks, railway
workshop and all equipment financed under the project and would operate the
trains, plant terminals and the workshop. SEFICS would conclude a Transport
Agreement with RCFS covering charges for use of RCFS tracks and a Tariff
Agreement with ICS covering the transport of ICS materials. Execution of the
Transport, Financing, and Tariff Agreements in a manner satisfactory to the
Bank are conditions of effectiveness (Sections 7.01(a), (b) and (c) of the
draft Loan Agreement). SEFICS would be the borrower and main beneficiary of
the proposed Bank Loan and would be fully responsible for its debt service.



- 15 -
50.       SEFICS would employ suitably qualified and experienced engineer-
consultants to prepare the tender documents, coordinate bids, supervise the
track works and workshop construction and inspect and commission the rail
equipment and rolling stock (Section 3.02 of the draft Loan Agreement).
In addition, SEFICS would recruit by December 31, 1983 and thereafter employ
a management team whose qualifications and experience would be satisfactory
to the Bank (Section 4.01 (b) of the draft Loan Agreement).
Project Cost and Financing
51.       The cost of the project, including physical and price contingencies,
studies, supervision and start-up costs and initial working capital, is esti-
mated at US$21.0 million, of which US$18.4 million, or 88 percent, are foreign
exchange costs. Cost estimates include contingencies calculated on the basis
of present Bank guidelines. The total financing requirement including inter-
est and guarantee fees during construction is estimated at US$23.4 million
equivalent, of which US$20.6 million or 88 percent in foreign exchange.
52.       The proposed Bank loan of US$19.3 million equivalent would finance
94 percent of the foreign exchange financing required or 82 percent of total
financing required. The capital put up by ICS and RCFS in SEFICS would
finance 15 percent of the total financing required, and the Government would
finance the remaining 3 percent (Section 4.04 of the draft Guarantee Agree-
ment).
53.       The Bank Loan would be made to SEFICS at the prevailing Bank inter-
est rate of 9.6 percent for 18 years including 5 years of grace, with the
guarantee of the Republic of Senegal. SEFICS would pay to the Government a
guarantee fee of 1.0 percent on the portion of the loan financing SEFICS-
assets. Under a Financing Agreement between RCFS and SEFICS, the latter would
use about US$2.76 million equivalent of the proceeds of the proposed loan to
finance the estimated costs of materials and equipment for the main siding
that would remain RCFS property. RCFS would repay SEFICS this portion of the
Bank Loan under the same terms and conditions as the proposed loan to SEFICS
(Section 3.06 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Tariffs
54.       The transport of ICS products would involve two sets of tariff
arrangements. First, under terms of the Transport Agreement that would be
concluded between SEFICS and RCFS, SEFICS would pay RCFS annual charges for
use of RCFS track. These charges would be based on the estimated incremen.al
track maintenance costs to RCFS due to the ICS traffic, as well as on a
proportionate contribution towards RCFS divisional and total overhead, track
operating personnel and track depreciation, and would include a profit r,rgin
to yield an adequate return on capital employed by RCFS. The bases for these
charges have been fully agreed between RCFS and SEFICS and have been reviewed
by the Bank and found to be satisfactory (Section 3.05 of the draft Loan
Agreement). The annual rate of return on RCFS incremental capital invested
would be over 10 percent at full capacity usage and would not fall below 8
percent during the period of production buildup. A built-in price escalation
formula in the tariff agreement would maintain the tariff level in real terms.



- 16 -
,5.      The second set of tariff arrangements involve SEFICS and ICS. Under
terms of the Tariff Agreement that would be concluded between SEFICS and ICS,
ICS would pay SEFICS transport costs based on the following considerations:
(a)  Total working costs of SEFICS, i.e., personnel, fuel, maintenance
and other charges, including adequate risk insurance;
(b)  RCFS track-user charges billed to SEFICS;
(c)  Depreciation of SEFICS equipment calculated over a 15-year life;
(d)  Amortization over 5 years of SEFICS start-up costs and capitalized
interest during construction (including repayment to GOS of the
capitalized guarantee fee during construction);
(e)  Annual interest charges (including 213 interest charges on main
siding) and annual guarantee fees; and
(f)  Adequate provision for asset renewal.
The tariff set to cover the total expenses as defined above would ensure
SEFICS an annual return of about 14 percent on average net fixed assets
employed and would allow SEFICS to build up a cash reserve rapidly to provide
a fund for renewals. ICS and SEFICS have agreed to the basic arrangement
outlined above; these arrangements have also been reviewed by the Bank and
found to be satisfactory. ICS and SEFICS would review the charges annually by
November 15 of the year preceding the one for which tariffs would be set.
This arrangement would ensure that SEFICS operates efficient services and is
properly compensated for them by ICS (Section 5.07 of the draft Loan Agree-
ment). SEFICS flow of funds is forecast to remain adequate under the proposed
tariff arrangements and SEFICS would maintain adequate debt service coverage
of at least 1.25 in all years (Section 5.05 of the draft Loan Agreement), and
a satisfactory working capital (Section 5.09 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Procurement
56.       With the exception of ballast, all items financed by the proposed
Bank Loan would be procured on the basis of international competitive bidding
procedures. The ballast for the main siding would be procured locally on the
basis of local competitive bidding procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Disbursement
57.       The proposed Bank Loan would be disbursed on the following basis:
(a)  for the RCFS main siding track, ballast, materials and equipment,
100 percent of expenditures;



- 17 -
(b) for other materials and equipment, 100 percent of foreign expendi-
tures; and
(c) for interest and other charges on the loan accrued on or before
April 30, 1984, actual amounts due.
Project Benefits
58.        The proposed project would be the cheapest solution to ICS trans-
port needs and would meet required safety and reliability standards.  The
alternative of road transport for phosphoric acid would entail higher than
acceptable risks of accidents in highly congested urban roads and streets,
and a pipeline alternative would be substantially more expensive. No separ-
ate economic rate of return has been calculated, as the project is justified
as part of the ICS investment, which is estimated to yield a rate of return
of 13.5 percent. SEFICS would earn a 12 percent d.c.f. rate of return on its
total investment, on the basis of agreed tariffs with ICS and track-user
charges paid by SEFICS to RCFS. RCFS would be a direct beneficiary of the
project, since it would get additional revenues from the new industrial
traffic substantially higher than the marginal costs it would incur; while at
the same time not placing any additional demands on RCFS' limited managerial
and technical staff resources.
Project Risks and Special Features
59.        As the repayment of the proposed loan is intimately related to ICS
operations which in turn set the tariff and revenues to be obtained by SEFICS,
a special Shareholders' Agreement would be concluded between ICS as the parent
company of SEFICS, RCFS as a minority shareholder and the Bank. In order to
minimize the financial risks, this agreement would contain the following
special conditions:
(a) ICS and RCFS would pay in SEFICS capital of CFAF 750 million by June
30, 1983 and would at all times maintain satisfactory capitalization
of SEFICS (Section 2.01 of the draft Shareholders' Agreement). This
would mean, inter alia, that the debt/equity ratio of SEFICS would
not exceed 84:16 (Section 5.04 of the draft Loan Agreement);
(b) ICS and RCFS would ensure that at all times SEFICS performs its
financial obligations under the Bank Loan Agreement, and particu-
larly ICS would provide funds to cover SEFICS debt service should
the level of ICS operations be unable to generate sufficient reve-
nues to SEFICS through the tariffs (Sections 4.01(a) and 4.07 of the
draft Shareholders' Agreement); and
(c) During the construction and pre-operation period, ICS and RCFS would
cover any cost overruns beyond the presently estimated project cost
(Section 3.01 of the draft Shareholders- Agreement) and would ensure
initial cash at start-up of SEFICS operations of at least CFAF
25 million (Section 3.02 of the draft Shareholders' Agreement).



- 18 -
Moreover, suspension of ICS or SEFICS operations for over 90 days with no
reasonable prospect of restarting operations would constitute an event of
suspension of disbursements, and acceleration of repayment of the Bank Loan
(Sections 6.01(H) and 6.02 (b) of the draft Loan Agreement).
60.       In addition to the above-mentioned debt/equity and working capital
covenants (Sections 5.04 and 5.09 of the draft Loan Agreement), SEFICS would
maintain a working ratio not exceeding 60 percent (Section 5.08 of the draft
Loan Agreement), would not declare nor pay out any cash dividends during the
first ten years (Section 5.10 of the draft Loan Agreement), and would, for the
purpose of the renewal of its equipment, each year set aside funds equivalent
to at least 4 percent of its total annual operating expenses (Section 5.14 of
the draft Loan Agreement).
61.       As the rail component is in support of the larger ICS fertilizer
project, effectiveness of the Bank Loan would be contingent upon receipt of
evidence satisfactory to the Bank that: (a) all loans and credits provided by
other co-lenders for the ICS industrial complex are fully effective; (b) the
FED loan will become available as and when needed for assisting the financing
of the construction, operation and maintenance of a water supply system for
the ICS plant at Darou Khoudoss; and (c) satisfactory assurances have been
provided by the shareholders of ICS that they shall take all measures neces-
sary to ensure that the ICS industrial complex and the water supply system are
fully financed (Sections 7.01(d), (e) and (f) of the draft Loan Agreement).
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
62.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and SEFICS, the draft
Guarantee Agreement between the Republic of Senegal and the Bank, the draft
Shareholders' Agreement between the Bank and ICS and RCFS and the Report
of the Committee provided in Article III, Section 4(III) of the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately.
63.       Features of the draft Loan Agreement, of the draft Guarantee Agree-
ment and of the draft Shareholders' Agreement that are of special interest
are referred to in Section III of Annex III to this report. Special condi-
tions of effectiveness of the proposed Loan Agreement are: (i) the signing
of the Transport Agreement (between SEFICS and RCFS); (ii) the signing of the
Financing Agreement (between SEFICS and RCFS); (iii) the signing of the Tariff
Agreement between ICS and SEFICS; (iv) notification by CCCE, EIB, IFC, ADB,
OPEC, and BADEA that all conditions precedent to the entering into force and
effect of their respective loan agreements to assist in financing the ICS
Industrial Complex have been fulfilled; (v) the receipt by the Bank of assur-
ances satisfactory to it that the FED loan will become available as and when
needed for carrying out the Water Supply System; and (vi) the receipt by
the Bank of assurances satisfactory to it that the shareholders of ICS shall
provide such funds (in addition to the Loan and all other co-lenders' loans)
as may be required for the carrying out of the Industrial Complex and Water
Supply System.



- 19 -
64.       I am satisfied that the proposed Loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
65.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed Loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments:
Washington, D.C.
June 1, 1981



- 20 -
Annex 1
Page I
TABLE 3A
SENEGAL - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
SENEGAL                       REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE  AES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                       - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
TOTAL            196.2
AGRICULTURAL      81. 0                               MOST RECENT            LOW INCOME             MIDDLE INGIPMF
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHAPA  AFPICA SOUTH OF SAHARA
GNP PER CAPITA (DUS)                 180.0       240.0      430.0                260.0                   868.0
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)     121.0       139.0     181.0                  80.0                   699.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, HID-YEAR (MILLIONS)      3.4         4.4       5.4
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 22.6        23. 7     24.9                  17.3                    28.9
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                       9.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                        24.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                 2150
POPULATION DENS ITY
PER SQ. KM.                       17.0        22.0      28.0                  27.4                    61. 7
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND     43.0        55.0      67.0                  82.6                   126.0
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PEP.ET'
0-14 YRS.                         44.0        42.9      44.3                  44.9                    45.5
15-64 YRS.                         54.0        54.2      52.8                  52.2                    51.6
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                   2.0         2.9       2.9                   2.8                     2.8
POPULATION GRGJWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              2.2         2.4       2.6                   2.7                     2.7
URBAN                              3.5         2.9       3.2                   6.8                     4.9
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     48.0        47.0      49.0                  47.4                    46.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     27.0        23.0      22.0                  19.6                    16.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               ..         3.0       3.2                   3.2                     3.2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)       ..
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..           ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)         125.0        83.0     104.0                  91.8                    94.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OP
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                   92.0        95.0      95.0                  90.2                    92. 7
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          62.0        64.0      64.0                  53.0                    53.0
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       19.0        20.0      19.0                  18.4                    15.6
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE     41.0        35.0      32.0                  27.7                    21.3
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)   37.0         40.0      42.0                  45. 3                   50. 1
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                           93.0          ..
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..          ..       37.0                 23.2                    31.0
URBAN                               ..          ..       68.0                 58.0                    66.8
RURAL                               ..          ..       23.0                 16.8
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..          ..        ..                  28.9
URBAN                               ..          ..        ..                 67.0
RURAL                               ..          ..
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN         22376.0     16673.0   15704.0              30910.4                  14508.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON     4110.0/c    2684.0    1608.0               5793.2                   3279.5
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            840.0       810. 0    900.0                1198.9                  1141. 5
URBAN                            281.0       356.0
RURAL                           2001.0      1171.0
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED           ..        22.2      26.7
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               ..          ..        ..
URBAN                               ..          ..       7. 6
RURAL                               ..          ..       6.0
AVERAGE NUSBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                               ..          ..
URBAN                               ..          ..
RURAL                               ..          ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                               ..          ..
URBAN                               ..          ..
RURAL                               ..          ..



- 21 -                                         Annex 1
Page 2
TABLE 3A
SENEGAL - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
SENEGAL                       REFEREIICE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE5AGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-D
MOST RECENT            LOW INCOME               MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE lb   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                  27.0         43.0      47.0                   57.7                      61. 7
MALE                  36.0         53.0       57.0                  74.2                      69.2
FEMALE                17.0         33.0       37.0                  54.1                      51.4
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                   3.0         10.0      11.0                   10.0                      20.6
MALE                   4.0         15.0       16.0                  13. 7                     29.2
FEMALE                 2.0          6.0        7.0                   7. 1                     14. 7
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (X OF SECONDARY)  23.0            9.0       10.0                   6.8                       7.0
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                               *          45.0      49.0                   45.0                      36.6
SECONDARY                           34.0         29.0      22.0                   25.2                      24.3
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)          5.6/d       10.0       10.0                  25.5
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           6.0          9.0       9.2                    3.6                     38.8
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          40.0         68.0      64.0                   31.5                     83.5
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            ..          0.4       0.4                    1. 8
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                    6.0          5.0        7.0                   4.6                     24.2
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..             ..        0. 7                   *                        0. 7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)       1590.3       1911.8    2232.8
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    39. 7        39. 1     38.0                   33.5                     38. 1
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               83.6         79. 7      77.0                  80. 7                    54.3
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                   5.4          6.6       8.0                    8.1                     17.8
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 46.6         44.3       42.8                  42.2                      38.8
MALE                                  56.7         54.5       53.0                  55.1                      48.4
FEMALE                                36.8         34.3       32.8                  29.5                     29.4
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.0          1. 1       1. 1                  1.2                       1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   36. 8/e
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  62. 5/e
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    3. 2/e
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    9. 4/e
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USs PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..         ..                 138.2
RURAL                                 ..           ..      82.0                   86.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..      194.0                 107.0
RURAL                                 ..           ..        ..                   65.0
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..
RURAL                                 ..          ..         ..                   66.9
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/s   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
Lb   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estinate, between 1974 and 1978.
/c   1964;  /d African population only;  Ie Population.
Most recent estinate of GNP per capita is for 1979, all other data are as of April, 1980.
October, 1980



- 22 -                                                                         Annex 1
Page 3
OEFIt5ITIOMS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
Notes:  Although the datae  draw   Iron  aors  generally jadged the seat anthoritative And reIabe   tsol   loh   oe   htte    a   o eitr
oatoollcomathi  heaue  f te  so  of atradardiat.t  t.defntin   ad h att. pts used bydfeen   o etea tn ool-ietiog the data.  The data are,noe
theleen,.cooEl to drette  res.f.gntd,.ntg ttrends,                            d an   -P- .d oharrsrseo doirfao tifrne  htrncutIs
Th  re tnrsgrus  r   (i) the same tutr  geaP of ts sub) eo                 --utry and (2) a coutry gre-P aith somehat higher.. averge Iont  than the   -to,nr  gr-a
o tth  ech)cocoutr  (ccet  oe"Capit:1al Sapias onl Pposers  gra  where "Middle Incm   North Afte ica ad Middle tEat-             scoenh`a ofsrne
lathalt of thaonn iesi  tgrou~pfbaa data for that todiostue.  Sjne- h  cvRag                  afcntri   atnSong             .. th hidiaors -dependsdo the a y libiit.o
Ant   cods,tuifr,cuines-h-sosdi   eltn    vrgs  faeidctr  oaohr    hseseae   r  oi   sflicmprI                                                                 h   sa
LANl AREA (thousan   agheq.)                IooalItiPn  eYhysicilan - 'Popultion umbrA.  by aamos  00 Pruntinic   phy-
haiutrl-itci  o   giunriaaue  tamponstfalylrpeaery                                   Pnlt         e   'tlnrla  Parano - ?Poputi-ro  dinided by n.ksr at praticing 
fc  cop,  ceura,atho  acd kitohan gardens or toli  flo;1977 data,                    maeadfmaegaut  cussIrcia   uss   n   sitn     Laaa
Pestslariacrt go-rital Bed - totl   ra.adrrl-Pyita    rnl
IM   15CPIA(C)  -lPpe   a ia  sImtsat  uret  ar     pnosta-                       aber, and rural  dieided by therrseciertr  fhsialht
cu70uced hys9ec79      riod    eto   a    ordSakAta   (1977-79 basis); 1960,                  agaleihubi.niptar  esa  andtj  _paialne fhospital sadce
j1RG7  011, ndi979aNa                                                                          bablianonCner.    topil  are ratabliah-ate Pemntnly ateffad
1500CNLtIA   it  AIA-Ana   octmto   fcdecileeg   oa                                             ya  leat  sshyican.fIaliabmente Pneiding pniatipel1p coatodili
P --t-.1 g.. ..d hydt.-   at  Zi                           cars  re nt:    inclded.  Rurlhbapiai, h-tre, include health actd medical
er  lgit,perloe  nrrs   asad  ydo    ulersa   eohrmlalc                        ceters rot PermanetlY staffed byopyIcin(but by a medical assistant
trcr)Icklgam   fcaleuvletprnaia   90, 1970, end 1978                           oe,mdie  er)wihofrinptetucmoata   a   rvt 
'talc     "i" incude   Ro  princpa  genera  mod epeiaed hositals. m-d eAl
yoPULATION A-tD VITAL. STATISTICShs Itals loca  or rotafl hositals. and medica  end. maternity                                                                          hanteta
To,,t1l fopclatton, Mid-las  (millions) - Am of July 1; 1960, 1970. and 197f                   -1 idec lcoo  WHar Onsi.tip.nd    Toa -nmd  ofadissions nopor dierhdrge
Auto,                                                                from~~~~~~~~~~~~~A    hospitals divided byI:   the number of lade.A    d:t  _t
Crhuo Population  (percent of total)    Ratio ofTurban toItonal populati.t
dIferntdeInIios  f  rba  aea  my afet   marbti'lty of data                HtOUSING
an -goctries; 1961, 1975, and 1979 data.                                              Aassls   fHueod(eec    s  hueod      oa.ahc   c   nr
PoPulation  r-iocotion                                                                       A-t9 hoSehi     ossso     gtpo   aiiul  rhoH ehers lining, qurtr
Population 'in Ysur PlOD - Curren  PoPulation ProJsctioae are base d 00 1680              anobrmincls  -    o eeo   oge   a   r  a   o   hr                        ...ua   is.
toa  ppltio.n.by age and see and their sotnalltY end fertility rtes,.               I the hoseol  ttsAtistical           - pupoe.d-   Y           tb.i,        dI
Prjoilr  auntee  o  motalityrtenop iso               .he  leesaeu-hrrs  tuber holdfprsn t                     meitiroo -ptotal,ura,edual-Atgsc-
coi  ieopiteya   ithioesa  with-ouYoy'-  er-n pita m-                        mi          _hot o  peeb-r  per tuaI        alohr,adttlorpidooat
co -etility trend    for prteois  PtPh...                                          of  otl.rhndendrj I           wellings -,d  teaperively
fSttilitry o-n dtu taotnn-         ...ta Io_ary   p fpla lon therm  is.no.growthpsinc
th  brt  tneI  ea   t  te  rth ras,  nd  la -b.the . ag  -truotateom-                                              d-1CA...
owl h  contyn1t.  his ..ieI acheve  onyaf     a  fetliynoe  delir  0                     dtetdttoise           ato
n     -tloa,                                                                          countries wihtudiverholaeucation enrolment map esesd 100 perION
Poultiontenlt                                                                                 educ,..t"ationreqtos    at les  fu  yearsy of a.pprve-pImary   tasi .tutio-
Per sh. ho.    00 ngialuo  land   -IC'ttd   asshn ifrlgity     lturalt t.landeluod
yerp Iuatn  tot P  191-90   -hAbTS  -          h    tLO,. andtllon                     i~. 197-7M.corenon ief lerl.b1-- b-t.fii1ahl
.Plationtfr9)601907,ad97-.us ptengso  ttal. 1 adul  popuatio tag d   IIyer  and test.
knuotu;1h1   91  andY      -P19t7g  P data.  kieit.Inton                                                        tI       fIY.I            P-d 1-yit-i
poynlunin; 1990, 1920, and 1918 dana.ca   ass rIng len than7 sight person; --cladre  .m..a... .asee  sadl
irnstiprdunin   at -Adeeg   numberd of dbgh-t f-oa    hha lo                           m ,iitaydhile
tn  nralrprdrtv  prtdifse  nerece  peso   gsesii i  ft            Rai t...       r  fo  thosadIonlotor  -Al_tpo of reca-ivts  a  nA
rIltyrrr   sal      y  Isyeraeogsenigin16.  90.ad177                                        rodcot to               ........ubli  pot  thosan   o   population    tole  ani-
Punl.iyylonn -g At cronore  Aoouelt.- (ohnesdma) -4 ynnaltuber of ai cep- ur                 condreorr   o   ott               odIt -   oart the tegitrtditoraise
ofbohnneideis under 4       auspdIne Po ntional fully  plningy prga.                 os.i d  rtfay     daptatCur recent yousmy  noatibe otptabl.          msms
An  f    od PrdcioAe Ctt d(997..10I g-hloden   offe capit epeusi                      MesAret Clecul.ytitn  (Per..t)_uia.d pultion)i - R1ow  oh  -d Addag  oitu.)
1-tio.. f- 1950-60, 1960-70,                                         tie  f  dalygetra  tteeo  tnappe"ddeind9e7apetoinl  ab
tation1    aver0g pr9duce  prio  weigh.ts  191,17,sd17   aa
Per. capta'h;t sutp- of caldo-n A-e   dtetreot o     su the t)- C.. mpute d-y frm        OndtmPhIO sant
enryeuvloto   a   od-sple   vial   nconyptopt                                  .it PPtCt       i        h:,
per. RIday  I. Riate supplIe  comprIse  domehtit prod.tIIIn. .Import  Iss                 ToitalLbrPre(huanst                   cnmnlyariepros   nldn
hoianl  leelIt      h-6,191  and,:        197  dta                                       fshng  s  erenag   of..dtot.alIlbo  force; 1960  197  end. 197  dat..1
re    eir   urp  fpoeI    ose"rIay       r tau  cotn   0prc pt                   nutyyecet       ao   ou toomnin, . ts                     putita, maitler-tun
cot  uppy otfon  pa  dsp   Oa eaply  e tnd  e deina   asshoe.  R-   sd elorrotr. veer  nd    perentge  f toal  eho  tore;  960
atnl     II-Ona   n  vrga to.h..    n,pooedb                s  h   hr             1960. -1970bsad 197  dta ..   Thes  areltj. lit's parit.pa .iud rTVs oa-i-t
Pet AN capRITaO prtiIutpfo    nmledrle       rti                     pyo   odd-               m   tra ar  fro  noions1      h. tote.g.ti.of;             . 
I rdior.d tins   -tiasl  end  Cpussit.  gr19  per"O da;  91-0  17  ou   97daapcnmi   eede                         ai  -Rtoo  pgueitude,0ed6  sa i-
Chld(tes1-)Motait  Rteieethusnd   Annuldeaths p..    thoasefod  in                  tote tota  labo   forte.
P..to.darn d              -riridfrom  -ir  abes  160  17  ed  97odte                    ICOt  SITCOI0ME-id~   .
--d  f ..g-)  hi,   -d  -"'f"                                   ~~~~~~1 prcet. r."d ichesf  t 20poret, ptoo.ret  20. peren.  anI   pors  i  prn.
sohtth t160g17  end-   t-    ih.   91-5   9D d 1978 data.c...lddt.   h   .-    .Id.                                                   i.iI   odi
of ogPet per th  ousn   lIive bith._ettfttetdate d bl Absolte.o.                                                     t   toeLre           1ern oe)-abnsdttl
ootrappy   inloostrstd  ue ae  iner  u         inoste    hotd  ...rontami..nerdid haffordoitr.t
oue   aha   hatg frmpoetdIrhls.prns   n   aieywla  no ekiettNaluir.Povrt  metm  Level .......    err ta ins): .-dubmst  sg
family' twatee needs.t.a                                                                                     Lb,f'        I'    -    jq...ry  hatg  a
hc-rstonoriaa l;soa   ocato 1sooslerlom  - tonal urbant eatt.1a-                                                                          .0   d198d..
ruralP - u,Ih of, peel  (rodoy , Nr-   p, end  foodl  serdved by bmenretRs    .p-Its       tt1l.-ft-    90
dipoalasprteaa   of -- their  etapliodtiv     USD p plt-ida.  f-rer  dis-               197n0in  nddScia9Set divtio
pos....e    . may iclud    fh oleti. t t and dipos al, wit  or wigan  tre1etmear,i.ti.at                             toon-oa, o ANalysi   en      eti          f seomet
ofI. humttritro    f Isad wars-mate   by wate -born    epetetsor  The  - ass ofytt.   t  ....df 1                                                         b i"
pr  pine   end similar...   d239                                        f                rt-t.oftt.,-1   .  fnem1itloeIIrIshet   1980                           ;ill



LSE9&AL. - CONOM4IC IiEVELONMEN DATA SIIEIT
Aotu.l.                E.tiaate. .~9a.u~,,,,,,7   ht.h   O
19741975    197b    1977    1978    1979    1980    1961    1992   ~~1983   1984    1985    1990    [971-75   197 5-79    1979-85   L985-90   191      97~5   1979   185    1990
A.NTIONAL ACCOUNTS
(in hilllooe of 1971 COAF)
coo                          ~~~~ ~~~~ ~~~257  277    297  299  269    303     281      311     323    335      348     362    439                    2.3         3.0         3,910. 0  .I9.   10t.0  104.3  104.8
2.  TT adju.tnet                              6       -       -9      - -       1      -3      -6     -10              - iT    -13     -15     -2         -                                   -2                    -07      0.      -43      4.
3.  G1DY                                    263     275   -288       299     270      300     295     301     315    324   .335         47     419       2.7         2.23                    3.100 100 100 100 500
4.  Inperta  (inc. SOS)          ~~~85    86     15       11       1      125       99     18      10      312     11l      119     144       1.2         9.8       -0.8          3.9           33.2    31.3    41.7    34.3    34.4
5.  B.prt. (inc. NF53                        69       77      95     101      73       84      69      92      96     10I    106       112     147       4.7         2.2         4.9         5.6           25.9    2.0      28.0    32.3    35.1
6.  E Oort., TT ad].                         74       75      86     1041     74       95      63      92      88       90      93      97     127       4.0         1.9         3,0         5.5            25.9    27.3   27.0   27.9    30.3
7.  Re.  gap, TT ad].                       .51     -11      _19     -14     -36     _44      -36     -26     -22     -22     -22      -21     417        -- -                          -                    7.3     4.0    14.7      6.1     4.1
8.  con.unptlon                 ~~~~ ~~~225  243    257   266     263     298      274    290    288    296         304     313     367       1.9         5.2         0.9         3.2           91.0    88.4   99.3   90 2   87.6
9.  Iroes Sc-er-ct                           49      43       50      47      451      486     43      460     49       55.     53      55      69       1.8         1.7         3.0         4.6            16.2    15 .6    15.3    i5.9    56i.5
10.  prIvate Iv-etnent                        20      Is       18      19      14       15      1       17       18     18       18      19      23      -3.1         0.0         4.0         3.9             6.9     1.5     5.0      5.5     5.5
11.  PobI c Seetet18                                  19     .1       21       22      23      21       25      27      29      31      32       42      7.9         4.9         3.7          5.6            57      69       71      92      1.
52.  Change i   tock.                         Li        9      II       7       3        8        I1     4       4        4       4       4       4        -     -                 -            -             3.6     3.3      2.7   '1.2       1.0
13.  Done.tIc' S:viegs. IT ad].               38       32,    3 1      33        5       2       7      21      27      28       31      34      52       7.8       -50.0        60.0         8.9             8.9   I11.6     0,7      9.8    12.4
14.  Natio..aI Savt.ga.  TT ad].              40       33      35      35      16        9      16      26      32       34      36      39      54       2.4       -27.7        27.7         8.3            12.1    12.0      3.0    11.2    13.8
I5.  GDP ([a,  In of ...crect 5)            1445    1900   1914    1929   2052   2492    2632   31t0   3521   3984   4511    5105    95 25               20.9         6.9        12.8        13.3             -       -        - 
B.  SECTOR OUTPUT
1.  ValIn.added                             2_57    277    .297     299      269     303     287      311    323      335     348      362     43        2.9.        2.3         3.0         3.9          100.0  100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0
2.  Agrlcultcre                              59      72       79      74      64      91       70      84      88      92      96      100     124       4.0         3.0         3,6         4.4            21.0   29.6    26.7    27.6    28.2
3.  led,ar                                   60      64      69       72      64      70       67      74      90      84      89       94     123       4.3         2.3         5 0         5.5           21.9    21.6    23.1   26.0    26.0
4.  P.                                      Illortcn  1  113  119    120     108     118      116     119     120     124     128      133     550       0.2         1.1         2.0         2.5            45.3    39.6    38.9    36.7    34.2
5.  I'o611c Service,                         27      28      30       33      33      34       34      34      35      35      35       35      42      -0.9         5.0         0.5         3.5           11.7    10.2   51.2        9.7     9.6
C.  PRICES INDIC.ES (1975 100)
1.  E.port Pric.:  (good. only)            221      192     167     207      217    214      238    253    289        304     320     377      490      17.7         2.7         9.9         5.4
2.  Inpr L P.rIe                            194     199     195     209      211    227      277      301     129     356     385    457       613      18.6         3.5        10.7         8.0
3.  Tarna of Trade                         114       97      86      99      103      94      86       84      B8      85      83      90       80     -0.8        -0.8         -0.7        -2.3
4.  11510 Deflator               3~~~~~~32  147  134     159      169     174     190     207    226    746        268     292      450      10.1         4.3         9.0         9.0
5.  Co" unr Pri-e  -/                      138      181     183     204      211     233     28       95      324     359     398    441       736      16.0         6.5        11.2        10.8
6.  Fild I-vetnnt Prcea                     1338    166     167      180     195     208      229     25211, 277      305     335      368     593      13.5         5.8        10.0        1a0.01
7.  Enc . RMt  (COAP per US$)              240.5  254.3  239        245.7  225.6  212.7  207.1l  250'  207 1  207.1  207 1  207.1  207 1                  -           -           -           -5o
3                                4~~~~~            ~~~       ~~~~~~~~/  /  4/  4/
D.  SELECTED INDICATORS -"1960/65 1965/70 1970175 1975/59 1980/.84 1985/99                                                                                             C,  LABOR FORCE (1971)                       Thoo.Aad          P.rcani
I.  ICOR-'                                    2.4     9.1      4.7       9.8      3.9       3.9                                                                        1. Ag'Iculture                             912              69.4
2.  A-. NaE. Sa"ogn. Rate 6                 11.5      9.4     13.4       8.8      9.3      12.5                                                                        2. Mining                                     2               0.2
3.mar. N.L. S-ving. Rate4                  -15.6    18.2      14.3  -103.8    41.0         25.0                                                                        3. M ...fart.rlng                            69               5.9
4.  Fi..d I-:etaet 400                      32.6   12.5       17.1      12.9     13.8      14.4                                                                        4. P.bliC UtIlitIes                           4               0.3
5.  Ipor C               "ItiLy             -0.0    -0.1       0.90      2.49     0.46      0.98                                                                       5. Conntr-ctiee                              17               3.5
6.  I.port./ GDP                            32.0    29.9      32.9      37.4     33.9      32.6                                                                        6. Prln-te Sa-ic...                         115               9.8
,7.  e.prttlGoP                             28.9    24.9      27.4      28.8     25.8      27,9                                                                         7. publIc   t" Sr..l.                      127              30.9
8.  Reno_-ce  G.P/COP                       -3.1    -5.0      -5.5      -8.6     -9.5      -4.7                                                                        8. Other                                    2_4               2.1_
Tot.l                                 1170             100.0
F.   PUBLiC   FINANJCE                           _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _                                   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
(ie bill10cc of  uret CFAF                             Actnala                       RCtha-te5        rj1eCtiq..jLCoehrts(.                                                                             6r. Ia        reCP_.,,,
and ffaa   yer.) 8/                        FY74    FY75      FY~76      077~  FY78        FY79_   FY80       F81                                   01-5         05-0       P095           Y7      FY5        07    .XlIL.!
1.  Rudget R.e. ....                           55.4      77.3     87.2    104.9    110.t   526.7    154.2   561.7   299.0                                13.6         14.i        15.3       19.0      20 .7    25.9      28.,7     29.0
2.   orc      (R. (ccc. i.t.r..t)              48~.9   65.6    §0.2   fij ~2.4    104.2   1.21.4   120.1    =,                                           1.1          13.3        1.         17.       17.6     21.        22.6     20.3
3.  1B.dg.- S-y,befre Debt Se..vIce             6.5      11.5      7.0      18.5     12.5      21.8     32.9    41.6       97.0                                          -           -         1.7      3.1       4.5      6.1       8.7
5.  P,b1. Say,  before Debt Service            13.7      11.8     11.8      28.7     13.0      24.6     30.7    45.4       87.0                                          --                   2.3       3,2       5.1      5.7       8.7
6.  Det  erlv                                    2.5      4.0       8.7      9.7      12.5     19.7      30.0     3J.4     46.9                          12.           51/.        .i          1.       1.        4.0      56        4.7
7.  IentbleSorplca                             11.2       7.8      3.1      I11       0.1       4.9      0.7      13.0     40.1                                                                1.3      2.3        .        .        35-
8.  Fobli,Ic le Le t.et  10/                  _WT7       337      4UT7                         30"1~ 5          ~T          W                            29.3          11.4        18.9                 i 94     10.3     11._2    14.1
9.  Pnrcec.a. o..f .elf fice..ieg (7.          38.4    22.3         7.7     41.8       1.1      9.7       1.2    17.1      28.6
10.  Debt Service Inpercen tage of               4.5       5,2     10.0       9.3     13.3      13.5      39.5    20.4      16.2
/ These. ProJnctioc..a oesn  that Cveranee-ta   t.iblitecticn piae clli be i-l-piccid.
2/   Cont  f1 'litng irdec of traditiocaI fenillee in Dakar.                                                                                            aTitle ProJectlon is cot  unniat-ot with the att.Lhed
3/   Ca.lcula    fr.n  -alues In Correct price. or constant pricce adjuated for changes In trera  of trade.                                                 6..c    f p.ynenta.
4/   Adjunted ; t-c.  of tr.d.  ahere apprepriate.
5/   Calcclto cdt    hthre  y--r  a--rge of GDP end the fi-n ycara nun  of ficod I.-n -tmeto In  cctat prIce..
6/   Calculated  . throe y0.-S average   fot the base ycara In correct pri,ce..
T/ CalIcul.ted o three ye... ..ev.ngna far the baon years in coa.t.tat priCc..
8/   FEec..l years Ito. Juy I to Ju-e 30.
j/   Iecludro envlnE. ito  StvAilna.t-o  Fund and public  capree
10/   Public i-ynatea.L. as defined by th- Hiolstry of Plancing[   ccntr.ry to thac catlua-1coo                      defioition, the...
figures includa the full cost. of proj onto ie nied anterpri.e. in which Go-erneet Lakea a na/or fdtefiran-
p.osibilIty, ptc/not caponsnts th,nt dc not aepre..e.t flied capital foreation, researc-h project. and nn
I/   IlStar.y exPARlitvra          aac
11/ Ratnet  ue or4tIl  5991                oi  Pay ..ni..



-24 -                                                                           ANNEX I
SENEGAL - BALANCE OF PAYMENTS AND EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE                          Page   5
(millions of current USS)
Actuals                        Eatiates               1Pro ections
1974    1975    1976    1977           19/8       i979           1980       1981      1982        1983       1984       1985      1990
A.  SUMMARY BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
E.ports, in'. NFS                           602      n93     698     853            691        864            841      -7 -      1,396       1,551     1,739      1,962      3,778
Imports, inc. NFS                          -6 1   -793   -°         -979        -1,030      -1,317         1,318   -1,332    -1,742        -1,928    -2 ,14i    -2.194    -4 270
Resource Balance                             -89    -100    -154    -126           -339       -473           -477      -585       -346        -377       -409      -432       -492
Factor Services (net)                        -48     -55      -8     -13           -27         -56            -74      -108        -76         -83        -92      -103       -161
Net investment incote                    -26     -37      -20     -24           -28         -38           -46                   -41         -.2       -44        -45        -70
Interest on public debt                  -14     -19     -18      -Zr           -29         -44           -49                   -48        -47        -45        -45       -51
Ocher interesc                             2       -3      -1      -.4            4         -11           -20                   -28         -36       -47        -59        -98
Workers  remittances                     -20       -6      17      18             15         17             19                   21          23        25         27         33
other                                     10       10      14      18             19         20             22                   20          19         19        19         25
Current Transfers (net)                       64      67      66       71            97          93           140        93        114         123        133       143        210
Current Account Balance                      -73     -88     -96      -68          -269       -436           -411      -600       -308        -337       -368      -392       -443
Private Capital (net)                         -5      12      16       26            36          42            46        84         57          62         69         77       136
Capital Grants                                19      22      23       24            29          33            35        32  6      38          39         40         42        54
Public !1 - T Loans (net)                     60      56      60       56           135         1)6           236 /t4  156         179         214      -265        281        267
Disoursements                             80      76       84      92           204         214           342       264        277         325        402        457       641
Repayments                               -20     -20     -24      -36           -69         -78          -106      -108 17/   -98         -111       -137      -176       -374
Short-tern  Capital (net)  l/                 23      1o      -      -38            -39          36             ;      -30              20/    -           -          -         -
Capital n ei.  2/                            -31     -22     -13       -9            24 /7       70 '.1        40 /l5   56           6          -
Increase in Reserves  (r)                     -7     -10     -10       -9           -84       -119             -4     -302         -28         -22          6         8         14
Level of Foreign Assets (end yr.)            7                                                             _'   2-7-5             1=          a63  ='!            2 -435
B.  LOAN COYMITTIENTS                             70     135      127     215           357         149          242        268        259         373        491                  678
IBRD                                           .       7      26      20 /5          11           7            '-S       14         30          64        51         48         63
IDA                                            -      25      11        -            26         25             7         ;3         25          25        28         31         42
OPEC Funds                                     -       4       -        3             5          -              8          9        10          11         13         l4        15
Other Tnternational Institutions              10       6      12       21            28 /8       46 /12        14        22         20          23         25        26         31
France                                        16      13      27      28             27         25            101         36        40          44        48         53         59
Germ nv                                       17       3       5        4             2          16            15         17        17          19         19        22         25
Canada                                         -       8       4        5            -           -              2          2         2           2          2         2          3
OPEC Countries                                 9       -        4       -            38 /9        6            -          -         -
Other Silateral                                4 /3  21 '4    -        12 /6         20 /10      15 /13        20        20 19/   23            25         27        30         3]
OMVS (Diama Dan)                               -       -        -       -            -           -             -        113 -
Suppliers                                      3       1      10      22             10           3            10         15        20          30         30        30         38
Financial Institutions and                     8      47      28     100             190         6             -           7        72         130       201        235        369
"rivate Banks
C.  LOAN TER,MS
Interest (7)                                4.7    4.8       6.1    7.6             6.9         3.9           5.3        4.4        5.8        6.5        6.5        6.5       6.7
Grace (years)                               6.3    6.5       5.6     3.6             3.7        6.4            6.6       6.5        4.6         4 .1      3.6        3.6        3.2
Maturity (years)                           27.5   23.4   20.1   12.7                13.7       23.7           26.5      30.1       21.1        18.8       17.2      16.9       15.8
Grant Element (7)                          39.0   40.0   28.2   13.6                l,J.9      43.9          41.4       53.4       37.3        29.7      27.2       26.9       24.6
Debt Service Ratio (7)                     531       5.3    5.5    6.4              13.6       13.7           18.0      12.7       10.4        10.5      11.3       12.6       13.0
Debt Service Ratio  (including                 -       -    5.6    6.6              15.1       15.8           19.5      15.5       13.3        17.6      13.3       14.3       13.8
IMF funds)
/I   Includes crrors and omissions.  1            I :,  i .--es r:e c,  - a F Qr - e,s  11E0  loan),
/2   Inclodes STABEX, SDR allocations and diffe-en"cs bernsees pohilc cspital i ,fl_os
as recorded by the Central Bank and by the IBRO debt rcpnrc.
/3    $4 million from U.S.A.
/4   Includes S17.4 million from Spain and 53.5 Erom Denmark.
/5   Includes 514 million Third Window Funds.
/6    U.S. Aid
/7   STAREX S24 million.
/8   Includes 317.6 million IMF Trust Funds.
/9    $37 million  from Saudi Arabia and Sl million  from  Abu Dhabi.                                                                    The 1981 balance of payments has been
/10  Spain.                                                                                                                              changed to take into account the effect
L/.   Includes STABEX S64 million and SDR allocation $6 million,                                                                         of the bad crop.
/12  Includes 313.4 nillion IMF Trust FPnd, 319.6 million African Development Bank, and
$12.8 million European Investment Bank.
/13  Includes S12.8 million from  Japan and 32 million  from the United Kingdom.
/14  Includes exceptional aid,   IDA  515 nillion; France $67.6 million; and STA3EX
advance from France 336.2 million.
LL.  includes STAREX $34.8 million and SDR allocation  $6 million.
/16  Including exceptional aid from IBRD $30 million and IDA $15 million.  Also including gapfills from  1981 on.
/t7  Repayment of STAREX advance from  France.
L/8   STABEX 550.8 million and SDR allocation $4.8 million
/19  An estim ted share of 75% in the $150 million cost of the Diam dam/ France S52 million;
Savdi Arabia $37 million: Kuwait 535 million: and African Development Bank $26 million.
L2 0  SDR allocation $6 million.



TI'able ]:1:  EK(:ORlT IDETAIL
Actuals                                                  Estimates                                             Projectionis
1974        1975        1976         1977        19713       1979         1980        1981        1982         1983         1984        1985         1990
A. CONSTANT 1971 PRICES
(millions of CFAF)
1. Groundnut products                              1b,118      27, Ob      40,620       37,535      10,398      21,276        7,802      28,265      28,7b5       29,282       29,809      30,346      1  177
2. Phosphates                                       5,9A2       4,757       5,526        5,396       5, 054      5,709        5,o,0       5,831       6,071        6,2J4        6,48J       6,743       7.969
3. Petroleum prouucts                               2, 207      2,221       1,651       .J,000       3,178       3,270        2,58',      2,71j       2,849        2,991        3,141       3,298       4.209
4. Fish and fish products                           7,230       7,709       8,928       12,600      12,660      13,601       14,008      14,778       15,517      16,448       17,559      18,831      24.960
5. Other goods                                     10.902       9,2:7      12,844       15,303      12,829      12,525       13.447      1_4 .21     15 252       16,243       17 380      18.945      28.354
6. Total goods                                    42,469       51,750      69,569       73,834      44,119      56,386      43,491       65,899      68,400       71,198       74,414      78 162      98.6b9
7. Adjustments on custom statistics Li              3,269       4,J88       J,510        5,256       4,05s       4,355        4,099       4,102       4,307        4,566        4,839       5,130       6.733
8. Non-tactor services                             22,813      20,574      22,709       21,788      24,169      23,357       21,402      22,400       23,500      24,910       26,903      29,055      41.898
Total ExlorEs                                  _            76 712      95 788    100,878        72.743      84,098      68_992       92,401      96 207    100,674       106,h    112.347   .!AL300
B.  PKICL INDLCtb (19/1 - 100)
1. Groundnut products                              210.8        145.0       158.4        211.0       220.0       19n.O        175.o       221.3       276.8       279.6         282.4       285.2       413.3
2. Pnosphates                                       419.1       467.2       306.1        278.0       277.0        257.5       301.2       334.5        363.0      395.7         432.5       473.3       621.5
3. PcE,ol.um po...ut.                               234.2       312.8       321.9        427.0       428.0        4)8.0      b19.2        7J8.8       808.2       884.8         9b8.,    1,061.9    1 828.8
4. Fish and fish products                            99.2        94.2       126.0        134.0       143.0        155.9       169.9       181.8        194.5      208.1         222.7       238.3        334.2
5. OLtIer goods L2                                  206.8       241.4       140.9        189.5       206.6        225.1       245.4       262.6        280.9      300.6         321.7       344.2       4 2 8
6. Total goods                                      221.2       191.5       167.0        207.1       216.9       214.2        238.0       252.7       288.8       303.5         319.5       377.2       480.3
7. Adjustments and NFS                              194.3       198.3       193.7        209.J       211.0       227.3        276.6       301.1        328.8      356.3         385.4       417.J       613.4
Total Exports                                   211.0        193.7       174.0       207.7        214.6       218.6       252.3        266.6       300.4       302.5        339.2        361.6    5.30.9U1
C.  CURRENT VALUES
(millions ot CFAF)
1. Cronid,nut produtl-s                           33,977      40,318       64,342      79.200       23,499      41,701      13,700       62,531      79,620       81,874      84,182       86,547       137.1
2. Phosphates                                     24,946       22,225      16,914       15,014      14,000      14,701      17,018       19,504      21,843       24,668      28,041       31,913        49.5
3. Petroleum products                              5,309        6,948       5,316      12,800       13,602      14,999      16,000       20,045      23,024       26,467      30,419       35,021        76.9
4. F'ish and fish products                          7,172       7,262      11,'30       16,900      18,104      21,200      23,799       26,86)       30,183      34,233       39,194      44,873        83.4
5. Other goods                                    22,569      22348                    29,006       26.499      28,199      3_3705                   42.85J       48,833       55,909      6,207        136.-9
6. Total goods                                    93,973       99,101     115,925      152,920      95,704    120,800    103,517        166,550     197,523    216,075       237,745      263,561       483.8
7. Adjustments on custom sLatistics  3             6,362        8,701       6,799       11,000       9,401       9,901      11,339       12,353      14,164       16,268       18,649      21,407        41.3
8. Non-tactor services                            44.325       40,799      43 987      45_600       50          530101       5924        67_4S       77 77,280    88,763    103_1    121,247            257.0
Tota_LExprts                                   144,660    148_601    166,711    209,520          156,104    183_802    174,0          246, 160    288,967    321,10           360,065    406215       782_I
D.  CURRENT VALUES
(millions of Us dollars)
1. Groundnut pro,ductLs                            141.3        188.1       269.2       322.4        104.1       196.0         66.2       J02.0t      384.6       395.4        406.6        418.0       662.2
2. Phosphates                                      103.7        103.7        70.8        61.1         62.1        69.1         82.2        94.2       105.5       119.1         135.4       154.1       239.2
3. Petroleum Products                               22.1         32.4        22.2        52.1         60.3        70.5         77 .3       96.8       111.2       127.8         146.9       169.1       J71.8
4. Fish and fish products                           29.8         33.9        47.1        68.8         80.2        99.7        114.9       129.8       145.8       165.3         189.3       216.7       402.9
5. Other goos                                       93-9        104.3        75.8       118.1        117.4       132.6       159.4        181.6       206.9       235.9      _ 270.0        314.9       661.1
6. Total  -,odA                                    390.8        462.4       485.1       622.5        424.1       567.9        500.0       804.4       954.0   1,043.5        1,148.2      1,272.8    2 337.2
7. Adjustmen,ts on custom statistics /I             26.4         40.6        28.5        44.8         41.7        46.)         54.8        59.7        68.4        78.6          90.1       101.4        199.6
8. Non-tactor services                             184.3        190.4       IDb. 1       185.6       226.0       249,6        785 9       12L5         3733J      428.7         500.7       585.6    1 241.5    e=
Total E.xpoc,rts                                601.5       693.4       697.7        852.9       691.8        864.0       840.7    1,189.9    1395.7   1,550.8            i,739.0      1,961,8    3 778.3
(Exchange rate)                                (240,50)   (214,32)   (238.98)   (245.67)  (225.64)    (212.72)   (207.0t)   (207.06)   (2l17.06)  (207,06)                 (207.061    (207.06)  (207.06)
1/  Adjustments are related to:  (i) the timing of transactions;
(ii) under--invoicing anid unofficial border trade;                                                                     z  rhis projection is noL consistent with  the attached  balance of payments.
(iii) stock movements in bonded warehouses; and
(iv) supplies to ships (mainly bunkers).
2/ Calculated as residuals.
3/ Import price index.
4/  A new estimate would be aboot 3,800.



TABLE 1.2  IMPORT DETAIL
195Actuals                         Estimates                                                  Proijections
1974      -    Act1976           1977       1978 -1979            1980       1981 1     1982       1983        1984       1985        1990
A. CONSTANT PRICES (c.i.f.)
(millions of CFAF)
Foodstuffs                                 17,139    13,063      18,403     19,842    21,115    24,666    21,394    21,202         19,800    18,546       18,138     17,797    18,200
Petroleum                                   4,715      4,497      4,668      5,291      4,988       5,690     7,154      7,163       7,521      7,897      8,292      8,707    11,112
Intermediate goods                         13,644    18,809    23,464    24,213    23,350    24,575    17,741    23,500    24,675    25,909    27,204    28,564    37,154
OtLer  guoou,ser 6uuds                      9,826    12,451    16,621    21,620    18,500    21,576    14,860    16,123    16,445              16,774     17,110    17,452    19,841
Equipment goods                            16.118    14,022    15,738    18 649    14 600    19,427    15,154    16,981    17,828    18,784                ,         20,558    25974
Total goods                               61,442    62,842       78,894    89,615    82,553    95,934    76,309    84,969    86,270    87,910    90,534    93,079   112,281
Adjustments ,' c-,stom statistics /I    14,616    10,593    10,866          11,181     11,800      12,751     9,721      9,217       9,770    10,356      10,978    11,636    15,572
Non-factor services                         9.408    12,338    14,6)8    14,143    15.H30    16.451    12J623    13 498    13.63               13.769     13 907    14 046    L6 250
Total Imports                           85,466    85,773 10,6 10 6       114,939   110,183   125.136    98.653   107684   109,673             2035   115.419   118,          144133
8. P.tICE INDICES (1971: 100)
Foodstuffs                                  236.3      224.9      186.1      189.5      191.8       171.9     209.4      228.3      254.2       271.8      290.9       312.2     408.8
Petroleum                                   329.3      330.0      404.8      442.0      417.0       513.2     698.9       837.6      '18.0   1,006.8   1,103.8   1,211.9   1 951.8
Intermediate goods                          177.2      182.8      185.4      200.0      200.0      223.4      243.5      260.6      278.8      298.3       319.2      341.5      479.0
Other consumer goods                        177.1      182.8      185.4      200.0      200.0       223.4     241.5      260.6       278.8      298.3      319.2       341.5     504.0
Equipment goods                             135.2      166.4      167.9      200.0      200.0      223.4      241.5      260.6       278.8      298.3      319.2      341.5      _72--°
T  eal ('oods /2                          194,3      198.3      195.1      209.3      211.0      227.3      276.6      301.1       328.9      356.4      385.4      417.3      613_4
C. CUERENT VALUES
(millions of CFAF)
Foodatuff.                                40,502    29,313       34,248     37,597    40,499    42,401    44,799    48,404    50,322    50,408            52,763    55,562    74,402
Petroleum                                 15,528    14,840    18,897        21,390    20,800    29,201    49,999    59,997    69,044    79,509    91,528   105,516   216,885
Intermediate goods                        24,176      34,375    43,502    48,426    46,700    54,901    41,201)    61,230    68,791            77,287    86,832    97,556   177,972
Other consumer goods                       17,j88    22,756      30,816    43,240    37,000    48,201    36,200    42,009    45,848    50,039    54,b12    59,604    95,046
Equipment goods                           21,788    23,332    26,424    34,894    29,200    43,400    36 901    44 244    49,704              56 035    63,167    70,713   124.421
Total yoods                              119,382    124,616    153,887   187,547    174,199   218,103   211,095   255,884   283,719   313,278   348,902   388,451   688,720
Adjustments on custom statistics L    28,398    21,004    21,201    23,400    24,893    28,989    26,891    27,757    32,129    36,903                    42,303    48,558    95,515
Non-factor services                        1          2          28.,540    29,600    33.403    37,401        4 _.919    40 649    44 832    40.065    53_591    58,61,   99,858
Total Imports                          166,060   170,087   203,628    _ 4           232 501   284_493   272.909   324,290   360,680   399,246   444,796   495,623   884,094
D. CIURRENT VALUES (c. 1. f.)
(millions of US$)
Foodstuffs                                 168.4       136.8      143.3     153.0      179.5       199.3      216.4    233.8        243.1      243.5      254.8      268.4       359.4
Petroleum                                   64.6       69.2        79.1      95.2       92.2       137.3      241.5    289.8        333.5      384.0      442.1      509.6   1 047.6
Intermediate gno0s                         100.5      160.4       182.0     197.1    '206.9       258.1       208.7    295.7        332.3      373.3      419.4      471.2       859.6
Other consumer goods                        72.3      106.2       128.9     176.0      163.9      226.6        174.8    202.9       221.4      241.7      263.8      287.9       459.0
Equipnment goods                            90.6      108.9       110.6     142.0      129.4      204.0       178.2     213.7      240.1    _270.6        305.1   ..   .         601.0
'Total Goods                                496.4      581.5      643.9      763.4      771.9   1 025.3    1 019.6  1 235.9   1 370.4   1 513.1   1 685.2   1 876.2    ) 326.6
Adjustments on customs statiStiCs /1    118.1          97.9        83.7      95.2      110.3      136.3       129.9    134.1        155.2      178.2      204.3       234.5      461.3
Non-factor servuc.-                          76.0     114.2       119.8     120.5      148.0      175.8       168.7 _196. 3         216.5  _236.9          258.,   _2.93I  _482.3
Total Imports                            690.5      293.6      852.4      979.1   1 030.2  _1 337.4    1 318.2  1 566.3_   1 74L.21    IM2L.2.    _14fl              9 393.8   4 270.2
(Excrnange rates)                         (240.50)  (214.32)  (238.98) (245.67)  (225.64)  (212.72)  (207.06)  (20/.06)  (207.06)  (207.06)  (207.06)  (207.06)  (207.6)
i/  Adjust,snLts are related to;  (a) the timing of transactions;                                                                          Thie  proja ction is not onsistaelt wiL
(b)  under-invoicing and unofficial border trade;                                                                                      the attached balance of payments.
(c) stock movements in bonded warehouses; and
(d) supplies to ships (mainly bunkers).
2/  The import price index is also applied to non-factor services
and trade adjustments.



SENEGAL - DEBT AND CREDITiORTHIiNESS                                                                               ANNEX I
(millions of current US$)                                                                                    Page o
Actuals                            Estimates                            _                      Proiections
1974        1975         1976        1977         1978         1979        1980         1981         1982         1983         1984        1985         1990
A. MEDIUM AND LONG-TERM DEBT
(disbursed only)
11. Total Public Debt Outstanding                           245.1        295.0       350.4        417.1       581.7        717.6        914.0        1 059.2  1 238.3       1 452.2      1 716.8      1 997.9      3 220.4
2. Including Undisbursed                                   420.4        522.8       616.6        814.5     1 156.0      1 227.2      1 147.1      1 354.3    1 605.8        1 955.9     2 341.0      2 721.0      4 206.4
3. Public Debt Service                                      33.4         39.3        42.3         56.5         98.0       122.0        154.9        152.6        146.6        163.6        197.8       2,8.5        497.2
a.  Interest                                             13.8        18.4         18.1         20.6        29.2         44.1         49.3         49.1         48.5         52.5        60.2         72.1        122.9
b.  Amortization                                         19.6        20.9         24.2         35.9        68.8         77.9        105.6        103.5         98.1        111.1       137.6        176.4        374.3
4. Other M & LT Debt Service                                 -            -            1.1         1.8         11.1         18.9        13.1         32.6         41.7         47.0         35.9        37.4         31
A.  Interest                                              -            -           1.1          1.8          3.4         3.8          3.6         23.1         23.2        21.9         23.2         22.4         21
b.  Amortization                                          -            -           -            -            7.7        15.1          9.5          9.5         18.5        25.1         12.7         15.0         10
5. Total Debt Service                                       33.4         39.3        43.4         58.3        109.1       140.9        168.0         185.2       188.3        210.6        233.7        285.9       528.2
6. Net Investment                                           26.0         37.0         23.0        24.8         28.4        37.6         45.9         38.2         41.0         42.0        44.0         45.4         69.9
7. Total Payment on Foreign Capital                         59.4         76.3        66.4         83.1        137.5       178.5        213.9        223.4        229.3        252.6        277.7        331.3       598.1
8:  DEBT BURDEN
1. Public Debt Service Ratio                                 5.4          5.3          5.5         6.4         13.6        13.7         18.0          12.7         10.4        10.5         11.3         12.6         13.0
2. Payment on Foreign Capital Ratio                          9.5         10.4          8.5         9.4         19.0        20.4         24.8          18.5         16.3        16.2         15.9         16.8         15.7
3. Public Sebt Service/GDP                                   2.4          2.1          2.2         2.9          4.9         4.9           5.9          4.9          4.2         4.1          4.4          4.9          5.2
4. Public Debt Service/Govt. Revenue-/                       4.5          5.2         10.0         9.3        1.3         15.5          19.5         20.4         16.2         14.9        15.2         16.2         -
C.  TERMS-/
1. Interest on Total DOD/Total DOD                           5.6          6.2         5.2          4.7          5.0         6.2           5.4          4.6          3.9          3.6         3.5          3.6          3.8
2. Public Debt Service/Total DOD                            13.6         13.3         12.1        12.7         17.0        17.1          16.9         14.4         11.8         11.3         11.5        12.4         15.4          -
D.  DEPENDENCY RATIOS FOR M & LT DEBT-
1. Gross Disbursements/Imports (incl. services)             10.4          8.5         9.0          8.9        18.7         15.1         21.6          15.0         15.1         16.1         17.9        18.2         14.4
2. Net Transfer/Imports (incl. services)                     7.8          6.3         6.5          6.9          8.9         6.5          9.9          7.4           6.3         6.1          5.9          5.7         4.7
3. Net Transfer/Gross Disbursements                          0.75         0.74        0.71         0.77         0.48        0.43         0.57         0.57         0.55         0.50         0.43        0.40         0.41
E.  EXPOSURE
1. IBRD Disb./Total Gross Disbursements                      1.0          9.4         5.6         14.1         .3.2         4.9          4.0          5.5          5.2          5.7          6.9          7.7         8.5
2. Bank Group Disb./Total Gross Disbursements               20.9        24.9         19.9         22.6          7.6        13.1          8.6         11.8         11.9         12.0         12.1         12.8         13.9
3. IBRD DOD/Total DOD                                        1.3          3.4         4.2          6.5          5.5         5.8          5.7          6.1          6.2          6.4          6.5          6.8          8.2
4. Bank Group DOD/Total DOD                                 14.2         18.1         19.9        2116         17.9        18.2         16.9         17.2         17.2         17.1         16.8         18.?         18.9
5. IBRD Debt Service/Total Debt Service                      1.8          1.9         2.9          3.6          4.2         3.2           3.1         4.6          6.3          6.6          5.9          5.8          6.5
6. Bank Group Debt Service/EcDal Debt Service                2.5          2.6          3.7         4.6          4.9          3.9          3.7         5.3          7.7          7.6          6.8          6.6          7.1
Outstanding Dec. 31. 1979                    Outstanding Dec. 31, 1985                   0'tstanding Dec. 31, 1990
F.  EXTERNAL DEBT (Disbursed only)                                               Amount               Percent                 Amount               Percent                Amount               Percent
1. IBRD                                                                       41.8                  5.8                   136.1                   6.8                2X5.3                    8.2
2. IDA                                                                        89.0                 12.4                   197.9                   9.9                342.4                   10.6
3. Other Multilateral                                                         79.8                 11.1                   322.3                  16.1                568.4                   17.6
4. Governments                                                               259.1                 36.1                   577.7                  28.9                835.0                   25.9
5. Suppliers' Credit and Financia   '-stit.tions                             245.0                 34.1                   148.4                   7.4                  11.5                   0.4
6. Others                                                                       2.8                 0.4                   615.5                  30.8              1 197.8                   37.2
7. Total Public M & LT Debt                                                  717.5                100.0                1 997.9                  100.0              3 220.4                  100.0
8. Total Public M & LT Debt (inml. und  bursed)                            1 227.2                171.0                2 721.0                  136.2              4 206.4                  131.4
G.  TOTAL DEBT SERVICE 1980-85/DOD end-1979                     177.2%
j/   Debt service to be paid by the Treasury only (fiscal yeLrs).
2/   Public debt only.                                                                                                                              x  This projection is not consistent with
3/   lligh Eurodollar borrowing to finance Government's participation policy.                                                                          the attached balance of payments.



28                            ANNEX II
Page 1
STATUS OF WORLD BANK OPERATIONS IN SENEGAL
A.   Statement of Bank Loans aDd IDA Credits (as of March 31, 1981)
Amount, less cancellation
Loan or                                                          (US$ Million)
Credit Number  Year   Borrower    Purpose                  Bank   IDA    Undisbursed
Four Loans* and twelve Credits fully disbursed             13.5    58.1
336-SE      1972   Senegal    Housing Site
and Services                  8.0        2.0
866-SE      1972   OPTS        Telecommunications    6.2                   0.4
987-SE      1974   SOFISEDIT  Development Finance   3.0                   0.1
530-SE     1975   Senegal    Education II                      15.0       4.0
1113-SE      1975   Senegal    Agric. Diversifi-
cation                7.0                 4.0
578-SE     1975   Senegal    Terres Neuves II                   2.0       0.0 1/
1221T-SE      1976   Senegal    Feeder Roads             6.6                 0.3
1222-SE     1976   Senegal    Third Highway            15.0                3.1
633-SE      1976   Senegal    Livestock                         4.2        1.7
647-SE     1976   Senegal    Second Sedhiou                     6.3       2.3
1332-SE     1976   SOFISEDIT  Second Development
Finance              4.2                 1.3
1405T-SE      1977   Senegal    Port of Dakar            6.0                 0.9
1412T-SE      1977   Senegal    Petite Cote Tourism   8.0                   4.1
1413-SE     1977   Senegal    Petite Cote Tourism   5.6                    2.9
764-SE     1978   Senegal    Para-Public Sector
Tech. Asst.                   6.3        2.4
775-SE     1978   Senegal    Irrigation                       20.0        7.7
1518-SE     1978   RCFS         Railways III           11.0                4.2
1665-SE     1979   Senegal    Second Airport            7.0                4.4
S-23-SE     1979   Senegal    Water Supply Engr.                2.5        1.9
908-SE       1979   Senegal    Education III                   22.0       20.0
991-SE       1980   Senegal    Small Rural
Operations                   11.0       10.2
993-SE       1980   Senegal    Fourth Highway                   28.0      28.0
1810-SE       1980   Senegal    Fourth Highway          10.0                10.0
S-26-SE       1980   Senegal    Power Eng and T.A.                3.3        3.1
1931-SE       1980   Senegal    Structural
Adjustment 2/       30.0      --        30.0
Total                                    133.1   186.7      149.0
of which has been repaid                 8.4     0.7
Total now outstanding                    124.7   186.0
Amount sold                        3.4
of which has been repaid         3.2
0.2
Total now held by  Bank and IDA 3/    124.5   186.0
Total Undisbursed                         65.7    83.3      149.0
*    A loan of US$3.5 millioD for agricultural credit (584-SE) made in
1969 was cancelled on March 25, 1971.
1/   A balance of $1,610.29 remains undisbursed.
2/   There is also a credit of SDR 22.9 million (US$30.0 million) under this
project.
3/   Prior to exchange adjustments.



29                            ANNEX II
Page 2
B. SDR Denominated IDA Credits (as of March 31, 1981)
Amount less cancellation
(SDR million)
Credit Number   Year   Borrower  Purpose                          Undisbursed
1061-SE         1980   Senegal   Technical
Assistance      4.1               4.1
1084-SE         1981   Senegal   Structural
Adjustment *  22.9               22.9
1103-SE         1981   Senegal   Forestry           7.3               7.3
Total                              34.3              34.3
of which has been repaid           -                 -
Total now outstanding              34.3              34.3
Amount sold                          -
of which has been repaid           -
Total now held                     34.3              34.3
Total undisbursed                                    34.3
*    There is also a Loan of US$30.0 million under this project.
C. Statement of IFC Investments (as of March 31, 1981)
Amount (US$ Million)
Equity
Fiscal       Obligor             Type of Business      Loan   Investment   Total
1967   Societe Industrielle    Fertilizer Plant        2.45        1.01      3.46
d'Engrais au Senegal
1972) BUD Senegal
1973)  S.A.                      Vegetable Export       -          0.84      0.84
1976)
1974   SOFISEDIT                 Development
Finance Company        -          0.24      0.24
1980   Banque de l'Habitat       Money and Capital      -          0.47      0.47
du Senegal S.A.          Market
1980   Societe Hoteliere         Tourism               3.00         -        3.00
du Barachois, S.A.
Total Gross Commitments                         5.45        2.56     8.01
Less Cancellations, Terminations,
repayment and sales                           2.45       1.05      3.50
Total Commitments now held by IFC               3.00        1.51     4.51
Undisbursed Balance                             3.00        0.00     3.00



30
ANNEX II
Page 3
D. Projects in Execution 1/
Cr. 336       Sites and Services Project; US$8.0 Million Credit of September 29,
1972; Effective August 31, 1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
Project implementation started slowly, but is now proceeding
satisfactorily following agreements reached with the Government in October
1978 to improve performance. The main problem affecting the project has
been plot consolidation and occupancy, but this is showing improvement with
the assistance of a loan scheme by the project agency (OHLM) and the Sene-
galese national development bank (BNDS), which is now fully operational. Site
development has also been hindered by the absence of on-site employment
opportunities other than construction-related activities; a unit in OHLM is
currently examining this problem and preparing proposals.
Ln. 866   Telecommunications Project; US$6.3 million Loan of December 19,
1972; Effective June 5, 1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
The project was designed to improve the quality of telecommunica-
tions service in Dakar and in parts of northern Senegal. Completion of
project implementation took about five years longer than originally sche-
duled mainly because of delays in procurement, resulting cost overruns, and
changes in top management. The physical works are now completed. The
Borrower has made significant efforts over the past two years to improve its
management, as well as its accounting and financial organization. This,
together with the audits and financial advisors financed under the Parapub-
lic Sector Technical Assistance Project (Cr. 764), is expected to result in
substantial institutional improvements.
Cr. 530   Second Education Project; US$15.0 Million Credit of February 19,
1975; Effective April 22, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
Project implementation remains about two years behind schedule
because of earlier delays in design and contract awards.  These delays,
together with a 10% decline in the value of the US Dollar, resulted in a cost
overrun of about US$6 million.  To help compensate for these increased costs,
the Government requested, and the Association has formally agreed, to reduce
the scope of the project by reducing the number of science centers from 11 to
8, the number of rural youth training centers from 30 to 15, and by deleting
from the project the construction and equipment for the Hotel School and
seeking another source of external financing for this component.  The Indus-
trial Training and Upgrading Center has started training courses in all trades.
Construction and equipping of the Merchant Marine School have been completed.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular, to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



31
ANNEX II
Page 4
Construction of 7 of the science centers and lower secondary schools was
satisfactorily completed at end of 1979. The last center was finishea early
in 1981. Procurement of furniture and equipment is completed. The rural
youth training component is experiencing implementation difficulties; but
modified educational objectives and a revised implementation schedule have
been agreed with the Government.
Cr. 549       Sine Saloum Agricultural Development; US$7.0 Million Credit and
Ln 1113       US$7.0 Million Loan of May 22, 1975; Effective October 31, 1975
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The objective of the project is to improve productivity of small
farms through intensification of farmers agricultural practices, particu-
larly through increased use of fertilizer and heavy equipment. However,
results over the first four years of the project show that yield increases
have been negligible. It was therefore decided, in agreement with the
Government and the co-financer CCCE, to re-appraise the project in an attempt
to find new workable solutions to the existing problems. A joint re-appraisal
was carried out in November 1979, and a draft Amendment to the Credit Agree-
ment was re-negotiated with Government in May 1980 and signed on August 14,
1980, when the closing date was extended to June 30, 1983.
Ln. 1221-T      Feeder Roads Project; US$6.6 Million Loan of March 31, 1976;
Effective June 15, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The project consists of improvement of about 1,000 km of feeder
roads and maintenance of about 250 km of existing roads; purchase of high-
way equipment and spare parts, and materials and supplies for project
operations; technical assistance for project implementation and monitoring;
construction of HQ building for the Bureau des Pistes de Production. The
project had been experiencing serious delays caused by insufficient financial,
managerial, and logistic support; but on the recommendation of and in agreement
with the Bank, the Government undertook a series of measures to accelerate
works, and progress has improved considerably. Works executed so far are of
satisfactory technical quality.
Ln. 1222      Third Highway Project; US$15.0 Million Loan of March 31, 1976;
Effective June 5, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The project consists of pavement strengthening of about 200 km of
primary roads, equipment procurement, and consulting services for preinvestment
studies, highway maintenance, and development of the domestic constructior in-
dustry. The project is proceeding satisfactorily and on schedule. The Pave-
ment strengthening program has been completed. The road maintenance program
begun under the Second Highway Project, and extended under this project, is
continued under the Fourth Highway Project to strengthen the maintenance
organization and operations. As a result of currency realignments and a civil
works execution period that was shorter than planned, an amount of about
US$2.5 million became available under the loan; the Bank has agreed to the
Government-s proposals to use these funds to cover the foreign cost of extend-
ing technical assistance for road maintenance, improving workshops and training
center buildings, and procuring workshop and training equipment.



32                           ANNEX II
Page 5
633      Eastern Senegal Livestock Project; US$4.2 Million Credit of
June 17, 1976; Effective June 29, 1977; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
The project is designed to assist about 30,000 pastoralists in
Eastern Senegal through improved grazing and herd management practices,
development of stock watering facilities and firebreaks, improved animal
health services, livestock credit, and a functional literacy program. Parallel
financing is being provided by the Kuwait Fund and BADEA. Project implementa-
tion is progressing satisfactorily and on schedule. Livestock producers
appear to be giving full support to the project.
Cr. 647       Second Sedhiou Project; US$6.3 Million Credit of June 25, 1976;
Effective November 23, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The project aims at increasing and diversifying agricultural and
livestock production through improved farming and husbandry practices.
Project implementation has been going reasonably well until the past season
when production was severely affected by the failure of ONCAD (the national
cooperative and marketing agency) to supply fertilizers as needed.  In addi-
tion, the project's overall efficiency is hampered by administrative problems
similar to those being encountered in the Sine Saloum Project (Loan 549/Credit
1113) discussed above.  The project has achieved its objectives in total area
cultivated and number of participants; however, findings of the Monitoring
and Evaluation Unit show that participating farms had no significant yield
increases (except for rice) over those farms outside the project, and that
the area cultivated per participant is smaller than expected. Work on the
agricultural development plan for the Casamance Region by the project's
Planning Unit is now completed, and further detailed studies are underway.
Ln. 1332     Second SOFISEDIT Project; US$4.2 Million Loan of October 14,
1976; Effective April 21, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
In addition to providing SOFISEDIT with a second line of credit
for   industrial and tourism investments, the Loan has helped finance a
pilot scheme of assistance to small-scale Senegalese artisans through
SONEPI, the local industrial promotion agency. The Loan is fully committed.
Ln. 1405-T   Dakar Fishing Port Project; US$6.0 Million Loan of June 7, 1977;
Effective March 20, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Following a slow start caused mainly by time-consuming Government
procedures, project implementation is now satisfactory. Civil works have
been completed. The quality of contractors workmanship is good, and the
new quays have been put into use. All the technical assistance services
and studies are progressing satisfactorily and the container study financed
by the project has been adequately completed. Overall performance of the
Port Authority remains satisfactory, but there are continuing problems with
receivables, statistics, and recruitment and retention of qualified staff.



33
ANNEX II
Page 6
Ln. 1412-T    Petite Cote Tourism Project; US$8.0 Million and US$5.6 Million
Ln.-1413       Loans of June 7, 1977 as amended on May 12, 1980; Effective
January 23, 1981; Closing Date: June 30, 1985
The project includes construction of infrastructure and common
facilities for hotel development on the Petite Cote, a major tourist area
where lack of infrastructure has so far limited such development; a program
of works for renovation of Goree Island; and technical assistance and studies
to improve planning and promotion in the tourism sector and a line of credit
for long-term financing for hotel construction at the site. Construction of
infrastructure works at the Sali project area have been satisfactorily com-
pleted and areas designated for hotel construction are ready for delivery.
The common recreation center and commercial areas are under construction.
The first hotel (Palm Beach) was opened on December 24, 1980. Bidding docu-
ments for renovation works at Goree are under preparation.
Ln. 1518      Third Railway Project; US$11.0 Million Loan of March 17, 1978;
Effective August 17, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project consists of track rehabilitation and maintenance,
supply of material and equipment, improvement of telecommunications faci-
lities and track in the Dakar area, supply of spare parts for motive
power and rolling stock, strengthening of training programs and facilities,
and studies. Track repair work between Dakar and Thies proceeded satisfac-
torily for about 12 months, but the quality of ballast procured by the
Regie was found to be poor. Neither the Regie nor the Government has been
able to provide the local funds needed for better quality ballast in FY81,
and so the track repair work has been halted to be resumed after 8 months
when funds in the next financial year become available. Practically the
entire order of locomotive spare parts has been received. The locomotive
rehabilitation work has commenced. The training program is progressing
satisfactorily. Consultants have completed two phases of the study of the
optimum structure and ownership of the Senegal Railway (together with the
connecting Mali Railway). Railway traffic in the fiscal year ending June 30,
1980 was the same as that of the previous year and did not register the
improvement expected, following the delivery of two new high-power locomo-
tives, as well as critical spare parts for the locomotive rehabilitation
program, due to an unexpected set back, caused by the loss of a new locomotive
in a serious accident. The entire project is likely to take one year more
than expected. There is likely to be a local-cost overrun of $2 million and
no overrun in the foreign cost.
Cr. 764       Para-Public Sector Technical Assistance Project; US$6.3 Million
Credit of March 17, 1978; Effective June 6, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
The project consists of a three-year program to help improve the
efficiency of Government organizations charged with strategic analysis,
operational supervision, and formal financial control over the para-public
sector; and upgrading the auditing, financial management, and accounting
procedures for the sector as a whole and for a number of the most important



34
ANNEX II
Page 7
public enterprises and mixed companies. Consulting services and technical
assistance are in place, and work is progressing satisfactorily. Overall
guidance and direction by Project Management had not been very effective,
but Government has recently taken some very positive measures to remedy this
situation. Training programs for government administrators have been pro-
gressing well and several intensive and specialized courses were organized in
1980 with more planned for 1981. The audits of State enterprises have been
satisfactorily completed and follow-up of audit recommendations by the
agencies has been good.
Cr. 775    Debi-Lampsar Irrigation Project; US$20.0 Million Credit of
March 17, 1978; Effective June 30, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983
The project provides for development of 2,220 ha through full
water control irrigation in the Senegal River Delta, and construction of
related facilities; technical assistance to the project authority SAED;
consulting services for applied research and studies for future develop-
ment of the River Valley. Works on the Lampsar perimeter are now completed.
Work on the Debi perimeter (financed by the Kuwait Fund under a parallel
financing arrangement) has started.
Ln. 1665   Second Aviation Project; US$7.0 Million Loan of April 18, 1979;
Effective November 15, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project consists of strengthening and levelling the main
runway and taxiway and improving the taxiway alignment at Dakar airport, and
installation of navigation and visual approach aids at regional airports at
Ziguinchor and Cap Skirring. Work at Dakar airport was satisfactorily com-
pleted by the end of 1980. Equipment procurement is completed and contracts
for civil works at Ziguinchor have been satisfactorily awarded.
Cr. S-23   Water Supply Engineering and Technical Assistance Project;
US$2.5 Million Credit of May 23, 1979; Effective August 10,
1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project provides for economic, financial, and technical
studies to prepare a priority investment project for rehabilitation and
extension of water supply systems in eleven secondary centers, including six
regional capitals; and technical assistance to strengthen the planning and
operating entities in the sector.  Consultants have been selected in agree-
ment with the Association, and work was started in the fall of 1980.
Cr. 908    Third Education Project; US$22.0 Million Credit of May 23, 1979;
Effective August 16, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The project is designed to increase the supply of high- and middle-
level technicians and managers required for the modern agricultural and
industrial sectors; improve and expand secondary technical and vocational
education; and improve the quality of primary education and establish a
solid base for its future expansion, especially in rural areas. Physical



35
ANNEX II
Page 8
implementation is progressing satisfactorily. Civil works contracts for the
major components have been awarded and construction has already started on
two sites and is expected to begin shortly on the others. Bidding and con-
tract award procedures for equipment, valued at about US$2.0 million, for two
secondary technical schools, the Vocational Training and Upgrading Center,
and the Technical Teacher Training College are underway. Implementation of
the educational research and planning component has been delayed by about six
months following a Government review of the proposed Educational Research
Institute.
Cr. 991    Small Rural Operations Project; US$11.0 million Credit of April 2,
1980; Effective September 10, 1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The project focusses on channelling funds and technical services
to small groups of rural people who will undertake to provide labor, and some
funds, for the development of several types of directly productive activities,
namely: development of small perimeters for irrigated cultivation of rice,
vegetables, and bananas; beekeeping; and fishing. The project also includes
village water supplies, an allocation for additional directly productive
activities to be identified and prepared during implementation, and provision
for a management structure.
Cr. 993    Fourth Highway Project; US$10.0 Million Loan and US$28.0 million
Ln. 1810   Credit of April 2, 1980; Effective December 9, 1980;  Closing Date:
June 30, 1984.
The major objective of the project is to increase Government's
capacity to keep the road system in adequate condition, in particular, to
train technicians and selected staff, to improve road work planning and
programming capacity and to rehabilitate and upgrade important road sections.
The project consists of the following components: (a) a three-year training
program for road maintenance staff; (b) a two-and-a-half year technical
assistance program for road maintenance execution; (c) upgrading of the
Government s soils laboratory to strengthen its participation in road main-
tenance activities; (d) design of proper and systematic pavement maintenance
and strengthening programs; (e) strengthening and rehabilitation of about
200 km of primary paved roads; and (f) construction of the Louga-Dahra road
(about 85 km) to two-lane, paved standards.
Cr. S-26   Power Engineering and Technical Assistance Project; US$3.3 millica
Credit of June 18, 1980; Effective August 29, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984.
The major objective of the project is to assist Government in
developing an overall energy plan and reorganizing the power sector. The
project also includes financial and tariff studies, and feasibility studies
for a headquarters building for the new power entity and for the expansion of
the generating facilities.  The project is well underway.



36                            ANNEX II
Page 9
Cr. 1061 Technical Assistance Project for Economic and Financial Planning;
US$5.3 million Credit of October 27, 1980; Effective January 9, 1981
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The project is aimed at supporting and strengthening the Govern-
ment's ability to identify, select and prepare, monitor execution of, and
evaluate retrospectively its portfolio of development projects.  It also aims
at strengthening the public debt monitoring, budgeting and forecasting capa-
city and improving coordination between project needs and public financing.
Ln. 1931 Structural Adjustment Loan and Development Credit: US$30 million
Cr. 1084 Loan and US$30 million Credit of January 26, 1981; Effective
March 30, 1981; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Loan/Credit proceeds would be made available to the Senegalese
Government during the first part of its medium-term economic stabilization
and rehabilitation program. Counterpart funds would be used principally in
the agriculture sector for reorganization of the rural development agencies.
About US$1.0 million equivalent would be used for consultant studies.
Cr. 1103 Forestry Project; US$9.3 Million Credit of March 11, 1981;
Not yet effective; Closing Date: December 31, 1986.
The project aims at meeting the steadily increasing demand for
fuelwood and forest products in the urban center of Dakar and in rural areas
of the heavily populated Groundnut Basin, where rapid population growth is
resulting in serious deforestation.
Ln        Investment Promotion Project:  US$6.5 Million Loan and
Cr.       US$2.5 Million Credit of                     1981; Not yet
effective; Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
The project would assist Senegal's efforts to promote productive
investments, notably in export-oriented industries, through a third line of
credit to SOFISEDIT and technical assistance in support of governmental
efforts in the industrial sector.



37
ANNEX III
Page 1
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I - Timetable of Key Events:
(a) First Bank Mission to consider the project: June 1980
(b) Agencies which prepared the project: Bank Staff
(c) Date of departure of appraisal mission: October 1980
(d) Date of completion of negotiations: May 1981
(e) Planned date of effectiveness: December 1981
Section II - Special Project Implementation Action:
None
Section III - Special Conditions
1.   Assurances were obtained at negotiations that:
(a) SEFICS would:
(i) by December 31, 1983, recruit a management team whose qualifica-
tions and experience would be acceptable to the Bank (para. 50);
(ii)  maintain a working ratio not exceeding 60 percent (para. 60);
(iii) set aside adequate provisions for renewals (para. 60);
(iv)  calculate its tariffs charged for the transport of ICS products
in a manner satisfactory to the Bank and would annually review
the tariff arrangements with the Bank (para. 55); and
(v)  not declare nor pay out any cash dividends during its first ten
years without prior Bank agreement (para. 60).
(b) ICS and RCFS would:
(i) raise SEFICS capitalization to CFAF 750 million and pay in the
full amount by June 30, 1983 (paras. 48 and 59) and maintain
this capitalization at all times (para. 59);
(ii)  cover any cost overruns (para. 59);
(iii) ensure that SEFICS performs its financial obligations under
the Loan Agreement, and that ICS would provide funds to cover
SEFICS debt service should the level of ICS operations be



38
ANNEX III
Page 2
2.        The following would be special conditions of effectiveness:
(i) the tariff and financing agreements between RCFS and SEFICS (called
the Transport Agreement and Financing Agreement, respectively) have
been signed and duly ratified by both parties (paras. 54 and 53);
(ii) the Tariff Agreement between ICS and SEFICS has been signed and
duly ratified by both parties (para. 55);
(iii) cross-effectiveness between the Bank loan and those of the main
co-lenders i.e., CCCE, IFC, EIB, ADB, OPEC and BADEA (para. 63);
(iv) assurances satisfactory to the Bank that the FED loan will become
available as and when needed for carrying out the water supply
system (para. 61 and 63); and
(v) assurances satisfactory to the Bank that ICS shareholders shall
provide such funds as may be required for covering possible cost
overruns for the Industrial Complex and the Water Supply System
(para. 61 and 63).



RD15748
W                                                                                                E    _    ,    $<     '.5'          ', - ,      0 M    A    VU    R      T    AT     N,14  t     A  *  '1J |4                ar'         J . V, b.|
a .tnpaa... Z:7                -
SENEGAL:                                                                                                                                                                                                                      N, .
I05 SITES                                                                                                                                                               - ~,th
EXISTING PAVEDI ROAPS                                                                                                                                                                    f    'oai           pt,
PAVED ROADS UNDER CONST;R.UCTI
-  GRAVEL ROADS                                                                                                                                                                     4      t                     RVRap
----EARTH ROADS                                                                                                                                                                           R'D~tl0.?Sa
4+  RAILROADS                                                                                    /,                                                                                                               II i |               t.t -
INTERNATIONAL ROUNDARIES             0i
T~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
M.- t  D-to
.Q.-,aag     N d,td  D_____
M'bPvRck  K.oy-                                               ___  0I-
7gMboro  <D A Darou Mou-lr    /                                            Ronoroy        zX   ~~~~~~~ X            \       | i\g: 0To,,baa S ft.  -  /  Va#'|
j4*Otnt4Gta ... .cB B rt                                                                                                                 r       f ,
[~~~~~~~.                                                                                          TA ,   T,.k ./ 4M 
0  IS USD 30 40 50 60 70 E0 90  100 I S   <                                                jMOUg O   H
CONS;rC;'5u_Uy    ~         1-                                   K.f-    \.UI l\| d0 BSL 00                      |    :     %         L          
:       0:SIS    ;iX'u:l:\ili00)  ::)\:l0';i0)t'i; i\%':';=/'i'\:'0;44 i00:1S;'5:;igii''\:\\0 ' G- lEEKeEX,.A



