Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCLFAL USE ONLY
Report No. 20556
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
RAINFED AREAS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 3778-ME)
June 22, 2000
Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development Sector Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Local Currency Unit:      Mexican New Peso (N$)
Rate at Appraisal:        US$1.00 =  N$3,100
N$1.00 =  US$0.00032
N$1 million = US$322.581
(November 1993)
Rate at Completion:       US$1.00 =  $9.56
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AGSAL              Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan
ALCAMPO            Agricultural Productivity Improvement Project
ATP                Agricultural Technology Project
CONASUPO           National Food Supply Company (Compania Nacional de Subsistencias
Populares)
DRD                Decentralization and Regional Development Project
FIRCO              Trust Fund for Shared Risk (Fideicomiso de Riesgo Compartido)
G3OM               Government of Mexico
lDSP               Irrigation and Drainage Sector Project
NAFTA              North American Free Trade Agreement
OMIIN              On-Farm and Minor Irrigation Networks Improvement Project (PRODEP)
PAC                Alianzapara el Campo Program (Programa Alianza para el Campo)
PCT                Project Coordination Team
PRODAT             Rainfed Areas Development Project (Programa de Desarrollo de Areas de
Temporal)
SAGAR              Secretariat of Agriculture, Livestock and Rural development (Secretaria de
Agricultura, Ganaderia y Desarrollo Rural)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
Vice President    :David de Fen-anti
Sector Director   :John Redwood
Country Director  :Olivier Lafourcade
Task Manager      :Michael Carroll



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
RAINFED AREAS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 3778-ME)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page N0
PR EFACE ......................................................I
EVALUATION SUMMARY ......................................................m
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT ......................................1
A. Background ......................................................                                   1
B. Project Objectives, Components and Design ...................................................2
C. Achievement of Project Objectives                  .....................................................4
D. Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project ..................                  ..4
E. Project Sustainability and Future Operations ...................................................7
F. Bank Performance ......................................................8
G. Borrower Performance ......................................................8
H. Assessment of Outcome ......................................................9
I. Future Operation ..........................                                                        10
J. Key Lessons Learned ..........................                                                     10
PART HI: STATISTICAL INFORMATION ................................                                              12
Table 1: Summnary of Assessments ................................ 12
Table 2. Related Bank Loans ................................                                          14
Table 3. Project Timetable ................................                                          15
Table 4. Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual ...................... 15
Table 5. Key Indicators for Project Implementation and operation ..................... 16
Table 6. Project Costs and Financing ..............................................                  17
Table 7. Status of Legal Covenants ................                   .............................. 18
Table 8. Economic Costs and Benefits ..............................................                  28
Table 9. Bank Resources: Staff Inputs ..............................................                 29
Table 10. Bank Resources: Missions ....................                    .......................... 30
APPENDIX  I:   Borrower Contribution to ICR  ....................................................   32
MAP:              IBRD No. 25277
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






- l -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
RAINFED AREAS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 3778-ME)
PREFACE
1.    This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Rainfed Areas
Development Project (PRODAT), for which Loan 3778-ME in the amount of US$85.0
million was approved by the Board on July 12, 1994, signed on July 19, 1994 and became
effective on August 23, 1994.
2.    The Loan closed on June 30, 1999, on schedule. The Bank made its last
disbursement on March 23, 1999, and the loan was fully disbursed.
3 .    This ICR was prepared by Michael Carroll of the Environmentally and Socially
Sustainable Development Sector Management Unit (LCSES) of the Latin America and
Caribbean Region (LCR) in collaboration with Alvaro Soler (Consultant), and it was
reviewed by Adolfo Brizzi (Sector Leader, LCC1C), and John Mcintire, Mark Cackler and
Jose Simas (previous Task Managers).
4.    Preparation of this ICR has been based on the findings of field visits to the project
area by World Bank staff and consultants, including a final ICR mission on January 4-7,
2000, interviews with government officials and other Bank staff, and the review of
material in the project file. A Borrower Completion Report, prepared by the Trust Fund
for Shared Risk (FIRCO) of the Agriculture and Livestock Secretariat (SAGAR), is on file
and available in the LCSES Department Project File.






- 111 -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
RAINFED AREAS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 3778-ME)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.    The basic idea behind the Rainfed Areas Development Project (PRODAT) was to
assist de-capitalized farmers with no access to credit, in selected rainfed areas of Mexico,
carry out investments in activities that would help them increase their competitiveness
within the framework of the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA).
2.    The project was to support implementation of rural investments to benefit
producers' groups that would in turn receive ownership of the investment once civil works
were completed. Its design focused on removing some of the main barriers to agricultural
growth in rainfed areas, such as unreliable water supply, lack of technology transfer, soil
erosion problems and the ineffectiveness of the rural financial system in serving those
areas. The main purpose of the investments in irrigation infrastructure was to shift the
cropping pattern away from rainfed corn into alternative crops that were profitable at
international prices.
3.    The project took advantage of an evolving framework of incentives in Mexican
agriculture, and it based its operational approach on some of the main elements raised by
previous Bank experience in order to successfully remove the aforementioned barriers.
Namely, project design highlighted the importance of technical assistance, and beneficiary
involvement in the design and efficient operation and maintenance of the infrastructure
being built.
Project Objectives
4.    As defined at appraisal, the Project sought to increase agricultural productivity in
selected rainfed areas through productive and small-scale irrigation investments, transfer
of new or existing technologies through private extension services, and reductions in soil
erosion related costs. Additionally, the project intended to strengthen the operational
capability of the implementing agent, FIRCO (Trust Fund for Shared Risk).



- iv -
5.    The project sought to meet its objectives by supporting activities arranged in three
components: I ) Rural Investment; II ) Agricultural Technology Transfer; and III)
Institutional Development and Training, each in turn subdivided in several sub-
components.
6.    The total project cost at appraisal was US$225.6 million, of which US$182.7 were
baseline costs, while US$18.3 million and US$24.6 million were destined for physical and
price contingencies respectively. Of the total project cost, US$178.4 million would be
used for investment, while US$47.1 would cover recurrent costs. The loan amount was
US$85 million and at project closure there was no undisbursed balance.
Implementation Experience and Results
7.    Although the project's objectives and structure were well suited to the ultimate
purpose intended, project implementation faced serious problems originated by the
Mexican economic crisis of December 1994. After the crisis unleashed, budgetary
commitments fell sharply and project execution suffered from the adverse general
economic conditions and a weakened institutional support structure, leading to a major
restructure of the project.
8.    As part of the measures adopted by GOM to minimize the social costs of the
macro economic adjustment process, re-establish economic stability and re-activate the
agriculture sector, a series of new programs was launched and institutional reforms
promoted. Emergency social programs were carried out and a new agriculture based
program (Alianzapara el Campo - PAC) was established to capitalize small producers,
improve their income and increase agricultural production and productivity.
9.    Simultaneously, deep institutional changes started to take place. SAGAR
operational functions were transferred to the states, technology transfer activities were re-
assigned to newly created foundations in each state, technical assistance was delegated to
the private sector, and FIRCO's role changed from being an implementing agency to being
a technical agent for SAGAR within the framework of the PAC.
10.   By the end of 1995, the core of GOM's agricultural policy was being implemented
through the PAC. Since the loan was running a serious risk of being cancelled due to
poor implementation performance and disbursements, the Bank was asked to evaluate the
possibility of accepting investments being made under the PAC as expenditures eligible for
disbursement under PRODAT. The proposal was formalized at the beginning of 1996; it
was approved and the legal documents amended and signed by October 1996, allowing for
retroactive financing of all expenses made since January 1, 1996.
11.   The amendment established SAGAR and FIRCO as co-implementing agents for
the project, and expanded the geographical coverage from 10 to 22 states (with the
addition of Durango, Campeche, Nayarit, San Luis Potosi, Tabasco, Tlaxcala, Yucatan,
Zacatecas, Aguascalientes, Colima, Morelos, and Quintana-Roo). The amendment also
accepted as eligible for financing under the project those expenses incurred under three of



PAC's programs: Irrigation development, Improved Pasture Establishment and Dairy
Technology Improvement.
12.   This re-structuring allowed project implementation performance to recover
markedly, as shown by the disbursements of the Rural Infrastructure component.
However, by then, FIRCO had no more direct role in overseeing the provision of technical
assistance through the Technology Transfer component, which was put under SAGAR's
direct coordination. In the end, beyond the seemingly good results shown by certain
monitoring indicators associated to technology transfer activities, this proved to be the
biggest shortcoming with regards to project implementation performance and achievement
of the original development objectives.
13.   Overall, after the initial spur, the bulk of project implementation took place during
the late 1997-1998 period, and the loan was fully disbursed prior to the original closing
date. While fully disbursed in the end and with satisfactory overall physical output,
physical implementation was uneven and development impact seems to have fallen short of
the intended target due to reduced technical assistance.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned
14.   The main objective of the project was increased production levels as a result of the
outputs of the rural investment activities, and in this context achievement of the project's
objective was substantial. Both the original project design and the implementation
arrangements followed after project restructuring was well suited to achieving the stated
objective. However, the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) did not include specific criteria to
measure achievement of the project development objective, being restricted mostly to
well-quantified criteria to follow physical and financial implementation. Thus, no
assessment can be drawn with regard to achievement of specific development impact
targets.
15.   Long-term sustainability of most project supported activities is very likely given
the commitment of beneficiaries, as reflected by their direct financial contribution to the
implementation and maintenance of project supported investments, their involvement in
the design and management phases, and the significant increases in productivity promoted.
Moreover, the opportunities generated by demand driven programs within PAC, like the
ones supported by the restructured PRODAT, where beneficiaries have an array of
complementary activities to choose from to request support tailored to their needs, have
prompted the Bank to continue supporting PAC activities. However, no future operations
regarding integrated soil and water conservation activities are planned at this time, to build
upon PRODAT's achievements.
16.   Key lessons learned from project implementation include:
*     project infrastructure outputs were unable to fully support development objectives
in the absence of adequate supply levels of technical assistance. Provision of
adequate infrastructure may be enough to promote expansion of irrigation and an



- vi -
increase in crop yields, but not to achieve changes in crop patterns and efficient
production. In order to achieve the desired transformation a whole array of
elements must be present, conducive macroeconomic conditions along with
adequate private sector financial support for complementary on-farm investments,
and appropriate, easily accessible technical assistance must go hand in hand with
the supply of new or improved infrastructure.
*     once two implementing agents were designated for the project, with control over
different complementary activities from different components, a well-defined,
comprehensive and coordinated operational framework should have been enforced
in order to ensure harmonized delivery of goods and services by both components
to reinforce their development impact.
*     if the project objective included increased productive efficiency and crop
diversification as contributors to improved competitiveness, and key elements for
increased production and productivity, the project design should have included
safeguards against low demand for technical assistance. Low demand for technical
assistance was in part the result of the gradual phasing-out of the internal market
protection system, which did no allow producers to fully perceive market signals.
Deeper sensitization of farmers about the implications of this declining protection
may have spurred more interest on private technical assistance.
*     experience under the project confirms the importance the Bank has given to
beneficiary participation in subproject design and financial commitment as driving
forces behind successful implementation.
*     experience under the project confirms the importance the Bank has given to the
need to have a well-structured set of indicators, and an operational monitoring and
evaluation system at project start, capable of supporting timely (and meaningful)
project management decision making. Performance indicators and targets should
be revised as necessary if changing conditions warrant it.
*     experience under the project confirms that project design and financing plan should
assess Borrower's conmmitment to long term objectives and the ability to meet
counterpart funds requirements under varying macroeconomic conditions, mainly
foreign exchange commitments at time of macroeconomic instability.
*     experience under the project confirms the importance the Bank has given to
commitment as an essential element for successful project implementation. Both
GOM and Bank showed strong commitment to the project by ensuring its viability
under varying circumstances. However, it was more narrowly focused on the
progress of financial implementation and only partially on some aspects of physical
implementation, thus detracting from the achievement of some of the ultimate
project goals.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
RAINFED AREAS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 3778-ME)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. BACKGROUND
1.    During the early 1990s, the agricultural sector in Mexico faced the problem of
restoring growth after a long period of stagnation, in the wake of a transition from a
heavily state-controlled sector to a market oriented one driven by free trade and world
prices. Agriculture had fallen from an 18 to an 8 percent share of GDP from 1950 to the
late '80s and to only 6 percent of exports, but still accounted for 25 percent of
employment in a show of low productivity. Besides, crops provided 60 percent of
agricultural output, with half of the crop output value coming form irrigated agriculture
covering one-third of the total cultivated land. However, by the late '80s the scope for
expanding total cultivated or irrigated areas was narrow due to poorer quality and
environmental sensitivity of additional lands. Thus sector growth suffered, as irrigation
expansion decelerated because of rising irrigation costs, due to the higher cost of new
gravity irrigation structures and growing competition for water from other users and the
environmental costs of groundwater exploitation in certain areas
2.    The solution to the problem required not only large legal and regulatory changes to
move away from distorted input, output and factor prices, but also greater public and
private investment, more productive technology and efficient technology transfer. During
the '80s the Government of Mexico (GOM) developed an agricultural strategy to achieve
the transition to a market-based agriculture, reforming agriculture as part of a general
economic restructuring. With support from several Bank sectoral adjustment loans, many
changes were introduced. They included: removal of guarantee prices; liquidation or
dismantling of many public agricultural enterprises and parastatals; reduction or
elimination of tariff and non-tariff barriers as well as subsidies for inputs; and major
restructuring of the food consumption programs with increased rural focus and improved
targeting and eligibility criteria.
3.    Within the irrigation sub-sector GOM's strategy promoted private sector
involvement in new investments. Measures to promote this involvement included: transfer
of Irrigation Districts to user's groups; transfers of capital, operation and maintenance to
user's groups; the promotion of private investment and water markets; targeting of public
investment to priority rehabilitation of existing works; and limiting of investments in new
works in line with tight economic and environmental criteria. Meanwhile, rainfed



-2 -
agriculture occupied 12 million ha or 70% of the area utilized for annual, perennial and
semiperennial non-pastures crops. Corn (6.5 million ha), beans (1.8 million ha) and
sorghum (1 million ha) were the main rainfed crops, all of them with half (or less) their
productivity under irrigation.
4.    Corn was a crucial crop to rainfed agriculture, accounting for 30 percent of the
value produced by this type of production system; however, it was estimated that two
thirds of the area grown would not be competitive at free trade prices. Investments in
irrigation, soil conservation and related technology transfer were needed to diversify out
rainfed corn growing in order to avoid unemployment and falling wages, mainly in the 15
states that held more than 80 percent of the area cultivated with rainfed crops. The main
barriers to growth detected in rainfed areas were: unreliable water supply; lack of
adequate technology transfer; soil erosion -highly correlated to geographical conditions-,
economic policy barriers -related to land tenure, input costs, output prices and financial
intermediation-; and lower effectiveness of the financial system to serve rainfed as
opposed to irrigated agriculture.
5.    The Bank provided support to the overall process of economic restructuring
through several operations and to agriculture reform in particular. Although macro-
economic reforms were broadly successful, Bank's experience under two Agriculture
Sector Adjustment loans, AGSAL I and II, indicated that the reforms had only a mild
effect on agriculture sector output and net exports. Private agriculture investment
remained weak and public investments had fallen. Several other operations, including the
Irrigation and Drainage Sector Project (IDSP), the Agricultural Technology Project
(ATP), the Decentralization and Regional Development Project I (DRD I) and the On-
Farm and Minor Irrigation Networks Improvement Project (OFMIN or PRODEP)
attempted to support investment leading to the reversal of stagnation in the sector.
6.    The rationale for public sector involvement in a new operation w as based on the
inability of the private sector to bolster the new investments needed to improve rainfed
agriculture productivity, the public goods nature of the extension and soil conservation
activities required, and the externalities related to soil erosion in rainfed areas.
Meanwhile, the rationale for Bank involvement included the need for additional financial
resources to support incremental investments to raise agricultural productivity and to stop
the expected fall in the incomes of poor farmers and landless laborers in the project states.
The project would also have, along with other concurrent operations, a catalytic role in
orienting economically efficient public spending toward investments designed to alleviate
poverty.
B. PROJECT OBJECTIVES, COMPONENTS AND DESIGN
7.    The main objective of the project was to increase agricultural productivity in
selected rainfed areas through productive and small-scale irrigation investments, transfer
of new or existing technologies through private extension services, and reductions in soil
erosion related costs. Additionally, the project intended to strengthen FIRCO's
operational capacity.



-3 -
8.    The basic idea behind PRODAT was to assist de-capitalized farmers with no
access to credit, in selected rainfed areas, carry out investments in activities that would
help them increase their competitiveness within the framework of the North American
Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA).
9.    The project was to support implementation of rural investments to benefit
producers' groups that would in turn receive ownership of the investment once civil works
were completed. Its design focused on removing some of the main barriers to agricultural
growth in rainfed areas, such as unreliable water supply, lack of technology transfer, soil
erosion problems and the ineffectiveness of the rural financial system in serving those
areas. The main purpose of the investments in irrigation infrastructure was to shift the
cropping pattern away from rainfed corn into alternative crops that were profitable at
international prices.
10.   PRODAT's design and implementation took advantage of an evolving framework
of incentives in Mexican agriculture, and it based its operational approach on some of the
main elements raised by previous Bank experience in-order to successfully remove the
aforementioned barriers. Namely, the project highlighted the importance of technical
assistance, and beneficiary involvement in the design and efficient operation and
maintenance of the infrastructure being built.
11.   The project sought to meet its objectives by supporting activities arranged in three
components: I ) Rural Investment; II ) Agricultural Technology Transfer; and III)
Institutional Development and Training. Rural Investment activities were in turn
subdivided into four sub-components: i) wells and associated irrigation facilities; ii) other
small-scale irrigation and drainage; iii) soil conservation works; iv) other agricultural
investments, mainly related to livestock production; v) recurrent cost for operation and
maintenance of rural investments; and vi) supervision of works. Agricultural Technology
Transfer activities were subdivided into two sub-components: i) agricultural extension;
and ii) soil conservation practices and soil conservation equipment. The Institutional
Development and Training component included five sub-components: i) investment design
capacity; ii) staff training; iii) information management; iv) specialized consultancies; and
the v) project unit.
12.   The total project cost at appraisal was US$225.6 million, of which US$182.7 were
baseline costs, while US$18.3 million and US$24.6 million were destined for physical and
price contingencies respectively. Of the total project cost, US$178.4 million would be
used for investment, while US$47.1 would cover recurrent costs. The loan amount was
US$85 million and at project closure there was no undisbursed balance.
13.   In its original design, the Project would finance through grants, eligible and
economically profitable productive investments that meet set technical and environmental
rules in high priority states. Investments required a 15 percent contribution in cash, labor
or materials from beneficiaries. Although initially it was thought that the project would
target farms smaller than 10 hectares, in the end there were no limitations as to the size of
the farm of beneficiary producers. However, those that participated in irrigated crop



- 4 -
activities could not own farms larger than 20 hectares, and irrigated projects larger than 10
hectares would be subject to prior review. Meanwhile, there was more flexibility with
regards to beneficiary farm size for producers participating in livestock activities.
Maximum eligible farm size for livestock activities was determined by the Technical
Committee of the Rural Development District, according to the conditions prevailing in
each region. However, all project beneficiaries had to be organized in groups to operate
and manage investments as well as to obtain technical assistance, and all beneficiaries had
to obtain technical assistance acceptable to FIRCO.
14.   Project goals included directly benefiting 28,000 farmers in 10 of the poorest states
of the country (Chiapas, Guanajuato, Guerrero, Hidalgo, Jalisco, Mexico, Michoacan,
Oaxaca, Puebla and Veracruz) with rural investments. It was also expected that civil
works and the shift to more labor-intensive crops would provide employment to poor
landless laborers outside the beneficiary farmers. Project supported activities were
expected to expand irrigation in approximately 29,000 hectares. It was estimated at
appraisal that technology transfer activities would benefit almost 14,000 producers and
cover an area of 50,000 hectares, while some 17,500 participants would benefit from 825
courses and training events. Project targets included drilling of some 350 wells and
construction of another 500 irrigation and drainage infrastructure projects, as well as
2,500 soil and water conservation and 100 livestock production projects. These activities
would spur intensification of production on existing crop lands and promote additional
private investment, thus being an effective strategy for the rainfed agriculture subsector to
achieve much needed improved competitiveness, growth and increased production of food
crops for domestic consumption.
C. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
15.   Objective: raise agricultural productivity in selected rainfed areas. The
objective of the project was increased production results derived from the outputs of the
rural investment and technology transfer components, and in this context achievement of
the project's objective was substantial. Both the original project design and the
implementation arrangements followed after the project restructure was well suited to
achieving the stated objective. However, the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) did not
include specific criteria to measure achievement of the project objective, being restricted
mostly to well-quantified criteria to follow physical and financial implementation. Thus,
no assessment can be drawn with regard to achievement of specific development impact
targets.
D. IMPLEMENTATION RECORD AND MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
16.   Although the project's objectives and structure were well suited to the ultimate
purpose intended, the SAR expected that limited counterpart funding and availability of
funds for producers to pay for their contributions could potentially hinder project
implementation. The project sought to overcome these handicaps by ensuring a
satisfactory budget commitment and procuring sufficient documentation that credit supply



- 5 -
to meet producers' additional needs would be available during the first year of
implementation. This strategy proved to be insufficient to overcome the problems
originated by the Mexican economic crisis of December 1994, after which budgetary
commitments fell sharply, and project execution suffered from adverse general economic
conditions, and weakened institutional support structure, leading to a major restructure of
the project.
17.   The initial stages of the project proceeded satisfactorily. They showed the Bank
being very responsive to a fast changing environment (dictated by the agreement on and
approval of the NAFTA Treaty), and rapidly completing the project cycle up to approval
as a prompt response to counter some of the negative impacts that the passing of NAFTA
could bring about. The project was designed according to the prevailing economic and
financial environment in 1993 and 1994, and it included financial safeguards to ensure
successful start of implementation. In fact, initial pace of project implementation during
1994 was strong. However, the advent of the financial crisis at the end of 1994
determined a dramatic shift in GOM's short-term priorities, along with investment budget
cuts for the agriculture sector that severely affected project implementation performance
during 1995.
18.   As part of the measures adopted by GOM to minimize the social costs of the
macro economic adjustment process, re-establish economic stability and re-activate the
agriculture sector, a series of new programs was launched and institutional reforms
promoted. Emergency social programs were established and a new agriculture based
program (Alianzapara el Campo - PAC) was set in place to capitalize small producers,
improve their income and increase agricultural production and productivity.
19.   Simultaneously, deep institutional changes started to take place. SAGAR
operational functions were transferred to the states, technology transfer activities were re-
assigned to newly created foundations in each state, technical assistance was delegated to
the private sector and FIRCO's role changed from being an implementing agency to being
a technical agent for SAGAR within the framework of the PAC. All this resulted in
meager project implementation performance during 1995, chiefly in relation to the
Technology Transfer component that declined dramatically during that year. Technical
assistance activities, that had had a good performance in 1994 at the outset of project
implementation, decreased sharply when the financial support on a sliding fee basis was
abruptly halted and farmers could not afford to keep their private technical assistance on
their own.
20.   During 1995 rural infrastructure activities were restricted to soil and water
conservation works (CONSA) carried out through an agreement between FIRCO and the
National Food Supply Company (CONASUPO) that allowed poor farmers to contribute
their labor in selected activities in exchange for a payment in-kind, consisting in corn and
beans. These expenditures were allowed as eligible expenditures throughout 1995 (later
extended to 1996) on a non-objection basis. The other soil and water conservation works
carried out by the project were done in the framework of an Emergency Temporary
Employment program implemented in 1997, through which poor farmers were paid a



- 6 -
small wage for performing community work. These expenditures were also allowed as
eligible expenditures on a non-objection basis. Implementation of soil and water
conservation practices through these two programs allowed the project to achieve
substantial physical implementation results (Table 5, Part II) while contributing to improve
short-tern income of many poor small farmers. However, implementation focus more on
works than on practices, and did not involve strong technical assistance as envisioned in
the SAR, thus hampering achievement of the full development impact originally sought.
21.   By the end of 1995, the core of GOM's agricultural policy was being implemented
through the PAC. Since the loan was running a serious risk of being cancelled, the Bank
was asked to study the operational rules and main lines of activity being implemented
within the PAC, and evaluate the possibility of accepting investments being made under
the PAC as expenditures eligible for disbursement under PRODAT. The proposal was
formalized at the beginning of 1996. Given the similarity of objectives and activities, the
proposal was approved and the legal documents amended in late 1996, allowing for
retroactive financing of all expenses made since January 1, 1996.
22.   The amendment established SAGAR and FIRCO as the co-implementing agents
for the project, and expanded the geographical coverage from 10 to 22 states (with the
addition of Durango, Campeche, Nayarit, San Luis Potosi, Tabasco, Tlaxcala, Yucatan,
Zacatecas, Aguascalientes, Colima, Morelos, and Quintana-Roo). The amendment also
accepted as eligible for financing under the project those expenses incurred under three of
PAC's programs: Irrigation development, Improved Pasture Establishment and Dairy
Technology Improvement.
23.   This re-structuring allowed project implementation performance to recover
markedly, as shown by the performance of the Rural Infrastructure component.
Relaxation of other design features, like size limits for the production units, the
requirement for grouped requests for support, plus the expanded geographical coverage
and the tilting of the balance between construction and rehabilitation activities, also helped
project performance. Nonetheless, there was a major negative impact on the Technology
Transfer activities since, by then, FIRCO had no more sole role in overseeing the
provision of technical assistance through the Technology Transfer component, which was
put under SAGAR's direct coordination.
24.   FIRCO has continued to provide (to date) technical assistance to all the producers
it supports, mostly in relation to the design and operation of the investments made and, to
some extent, in relation to the production aspects involved. However, in the end, the lack
of coordination between the provision of well planned production-related technical
assistance along with the infrastructure improvements, proved to be the biggest
shortcoming with regards to project implementation performance and achievement of the
original development objectives. Chronologically, this was the last factor to negatively
affect technical assistance activities. It had been preceded by the inability of beneficiaries
to continue contributing their share (78%) of the $61 million originally expected to be
spent in technology transfer, and the collapse of the Agricultural Technology Project, to
which PRODAT's technical assistance activities were closely linked.



- 7 -
25.   Overall, after the initial spur, the bulk of project implementation was carried out
during the late 1997-1998 period, and the loan was fully disbursed prior to the original
closing date. While fully disbursed in the end and with satisfactory overall physical
output, physical implementation was uneven and development impact seems to have fallen
short of the intended target due to reduced technical assistance.
26.   At appraisal it was considered that an overall economic analysis for the project was
not applicable given that the exact nature of the investment program would be determined
by beneficiaries' demand. However, a sensitivity analysis of a sample of rural investment
projects carried out by FIRCO in the two years prior to the start of project
implementation, was carried out. The investment projects, mostly related to
improvements in irrigation schemes, were considered similar to those that would be
supported by PRODAT and the analysis showed the stability of their net present worth
(NPV) under varying value of four key variables: input price index, maize price, yield
index and discount rate. Similarly, the final project report includes a socioeconomic
impact assessment of project activities carried out under the three PAC programs
supported during the period 1996 - 1997, based on surveys of a sample of beneficiaries.
Whereas the study's assessment of the economic impact may not be deemed very accurate
given the short period of time elapsed since the implementation of the investments
analyzed, it does show significant qualitative improvement trends in key socioeconomic
and productive indicators (see summary in Table 9, Part II) among project beneficiaries.
27.   Monitoring of implementation activities and development indicators improved
throughout the life of the project life after being weak at the outset of implementation. In
the end the monitoring system provided reliable information, and realization of its value as
a management tool for successful implementation was pointed out as one of the lessons
contributed by the project. The Project Coordination Team (PCT) seems to have
bestowed more emphasis upon financial and physical monitoring than in coordinating
activities with other implementing agents, such as over technical assistance with SAGAR,
thus detracting somewhat from what was otherwise a very good job. However, good
overall operational performance by the PCT must be highlighted, especially after the
restructuring when there was a notable geographical expansion of project activities,
imposing a larger coordination and supervision burden on the PCT.
E. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY AND FUTuRE OPERATIONS
28.   Long-term sustainability of most project supported activities is very likely given
the commitment of beneficiaries, as reflected by their direct financial contribution to the
implementation and maintenance of project supported investments, their involvement in
the design and management phases, and the significant increases in productivity promoted.
Moreover, the opportunities generated by demand driven programs within PAC, like the
ones supported by the restructured PRODAT, where beneficiaries have an array of
complementary activities to choose from to request support tailored to their needs, have
prompted the Bank to continue supporting PAC activities. However, no future operations



- 8 -
regarding integrated soil and water conservation activities are planned at this time, to build
upon PRODAT's achievements.
F. BANK PERFORMANCE
29.   Bank performance was highly satisfactory throughout project Identification,
Preparation and Appraisal, responding in a swift and efficient manner to a quick
developing problem. Bank performance remained satisfactory throughout project
implementation. Bank was always supportive and very flexible in helping the client
overcome problems affecting implementation performance.
30.   However, Bank actions lost focus on part of the project original objectives during
the implementation period after project restructuring. At the time, supervision efforts
seem to have given more emphasis to technical issues related to infrastructure investment
as well as smooth disbursement flows, than to ensure the necessary coordination with the
non-infrastructure related activities needed to achieve full development impact. Later,
however, the decision of LCCIC to integrate supervision of PRODAT during the final
stages of implementation with the preparation of the Agricultural Productivity
Improvement Project (ALCAMPO), allowed to incorporate lessons learned from
PRODAT into the preparation of ALCAMPO.
G. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
31.   GOM's performance during project preparation and implementation was
satisfactory. Drastic changes occurred in macroeconomic conditions during project
implementation, that reflected negatively on GOM's financial situation and promoted deep
changes in its policy tools of choice and its budget priorities. However, while short-term
commitment to project objectives suffered, long term goals remained similar under the
new policy framework and GOM was very proactive in proposing alternative
implementation arrangements, suitable to project objectives, within the new policy
framework and available instruments.
32.   Unfortunately, institutional changes translated into changing activity focus for the
implementing agents involved that resulted in lack of coordination of some activities, such
as technical assistance, which in turn determined a lesser achievement of project
development objectives. Nevertheless, it must be pointed out that continued operation of
the PAC as a policy implementing tool and the experience gained in the execution of its
programs, including those to provide technical assistance, has allowed continued
improvement of the integrated approach to beneficiary support that the implementation of
PRODAT lacked.
33.   The Borrower's compliance with Loan Covenants was satisfactory throughout
implementation. Monitoring and reporting performance was uneven at the beginning of
implementation, but improved toward the end as institutional development activities
produced positive results.



- 9 -
H. ASSESSM:ENT OF OUTCoME
34.   The project's outcome is assessed as satisfactory. The project definitely
contributed to increase the agricultural productivity in selected rainfed areas. Table 5 in
Part II shows substantial achievement of physical implementation targets, with over two to
four times the amount of planned irrigation related projects (3,003 overall, as opposed to
838), covering three times as much area as originally envisioned (86,478 ha. as opposed to
29,013). Similar trends are detected with regard to soil and water conservation works,
and livestock production projects, for which the amount of projects and beneficiaries are
substantially higher than originally planned.
35.   It must be pointed out, however, that the high numbers of beneficiaries of the
investment and technology transfer activities related to soil and water conservation works
and practices, are highly influenced by the pulverized operational style of the CONASUPO
and PET programs under which they were carried out. Similarly, the numbers of
beneficiaries shown reflect those receiving compensation for the labor provided to those
programs, and not the number of farms (or farmers) being benefited. Likewise, the
number of technical assistance contracts shown, while 50% higher than the original target,
obscure the facts that they were all implemented only during 1994 and 1995, and that the
original target may be considered low if compared to the amount of expected beneficiaries
of investment activities. Finally, conversely to investment activities, demonstration
activities were only 13% of the original target, and training activities were roughly one
fourth of the target levels.
36.   However, not all the instruments foreseen in the achievement of project objectives
were used in a balanced way, thus having a negative impact in the extent of project
development impact. Most production-related technical assistance was provided before
1996, before the bulk of infrastructure investment took place. While the mere
introduction of irrigation can have a large impact on productivity and production,
appropriate technical assistance is instrumental in achieving full impact.
37.   Lax production-related technical assistance after project restructuring precluded
pursuing some of the project's original goals, like diversification of production as a means
to attain increased competitiveness and readiness for an open economy. A delayed
evaluation report prepared close to the completion of implementation shows that with the
exception of the localized irrigation systems supported (which were installed along with
new citrus groves), the rest of the irrigation systems installed or improved had little impact
on the distribution of crops grown. However, the report shows that a substantial amount
of the beneficiaries surveyed declared to have received technical assistance and
experienced increased income. Given the lateness of the report with regard to the
implementation period, no final evaluation was carried out since it was likely that no major
differences in results would arise. The main results of the report are included in Table 8,
Part II.
38.   Although the project left a legacy of improved infrastructure and readiness to
pursue larger competitiveness, it did not go full circle in promoting beneficiaries' adoption



- 10-
of new products and productive systems that could enhance their competitiveness in an
open economy.
39.   Data shows that most beneficiaries improved their yields and total production
through irrigation and double cropping or increased efficiency of irrigation, but did not go
all the way and diversified production in order to be ready to compete once protective
barriers for corn are completely phased out. In that respect, project design may have been
shortsighted in the sense that it might have foresaw that the combination of continued
price protection -due to slow phase-out of income support- coupled with increased
availability of irrigation infrastructure would promote double cropping of traditional crops
rather than production diversification. In addition, by relaxing size limits, moving to
larger geographical coverage and tilting the balance between construction and
rehabilitation activities after project restructuring, the focus of supporting the areas and
producers that would be affected the most by free trade, was partially lost, whereas the
project objectives remained unchanged.
L. FUTURE OPERATION
40.   Partially based on the experience of PRODAT, the Bank expanded its support for
GOM's agricultural policies through a new loan, approved in December 1998. The
project, ALCAMPO (Agricultural Productivity Improvement Project, Ln. 4428-ME), was
designed to provide support to the poorest segment of the beneficiary population of
several PAC programs. These include the three programs that were covered by PRODAT
(Irrigation Development, Improved Pasture Establishment and Dairy Technology
Improvement), which were initially supported on the states not covered by PRODAT, and
on a nationwide basis after PRODAT's closing date. Thus, continued operation of most
of PRODAT's activities was assured with the aforementioned operation.
J. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
41.   Project infrastructure outputs were unable to fully support development objectives
in the absence of adequate supply levels of technical assistance. Provision of adequate
infrastructure may be enough to promote expansion of irrigation and an increase in crop
yields, but not changes in crop patterns and efficient production. In order to achieve the
desired transformation a whole array of elements must be present, conducive
macroeconomic conditions along with adequate private sector financial support for
complementary on-farm investments, and appropriate, easily accessible technical
assistance must go hand in hand with the supply of new or improved infrastructure.
42.   Once two implementing agents were designated for the project, with control of
different complementary activities from different components, a well-defined,
comprehensive and coordinated operational framework should have been enforced in
order to ensure harmonized delivery of goods and services by both components to
reinforce their development impact.



- 11-
43.   If the project objective included increased productive efficiency and crop
diversification as contributors to improved competitiveness, and key elements for
increased production and productivity, the project design should have included safeguards
against low demand for technical assistance. Low demand for technical assistance was in
part the result of the gradual phasing-out of the internal market protection system, which
did no allow producers to fully perceive market signals. Deeper sensitization of farmers
about the implications of this declining protection may have spurred more interest on
private technical assistance.
44.   Experience under the project confirms the importance the Bank has given to
beneficiary participation in (sub) project design and financial commitment as driving forces
behind successful implementation.
45.   Experience under the project confirms the importance the Bank has given to the
need to have a well-structured set of indicators, and an operational monitoring and
evaluation system at project start, capable of supporting timely (and meaningful) project
management decision making. Performance indicators and targets should be revised as
necessary if changing conditions warrant it.
46.   Experience under the project confirms that project design and financing plan
should assess Borrower's commitment to long term objectives and the ability to meet
counterpart funds requirements under varying macroeconomic conditions, mainly foreign
exchange commitments at time of macroeconomic instability.
47.   Experience under the project confirms the importance the Bank has given to
commitment as an essential element for successful project implementation. Both GOM
and Bank showed strong commitment to the project by ensuring its viability under varying
circumstances. However, it was more narrowly focused on the progress of financial
implementation and only partially on some aspects of physical implementation, thus
detracting from the achievement of some of the ultimate project goals.



- 12 -
MPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
RAINFED AREAS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 3778ME)
PART II: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
TABLE 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS
A. Achievement of Objectives      Substantial      Partial        Negligible      Not applicable
I    _                      ~~~ ~ ~~~~~(VI')  (V)            (V)              (V)
Macro Policies                     O              a               [                0
Sector Policies
Financial Objectives                              Q                J                Q
Institutional Development                          J              [                 Q
Physical Objectives                               Q                                [J
Poverty Reduction                  5              0               5
Gender Issues                     E                               5
Other Social Objectives           El             E                EJ
Environmental Objectives                         E 5              5                 0
Public Sector Management           0              5               0
Private Sector Development         0              5               0                 0
Other (specify)                    0             [                5                0



- 13 -
(Continued)
B. Project Sustainabilitv             Likely                 Unlikelv                 Uncertain
(1)                      (/)                       (v')
C. Bank Performance                    Satisfactorv         Satisfactory               Deficient
(1)                     (/)                       ("I)
Identification                                             [                         El
Preparation Assistance             E                                                  D
Appraisal                           0                      E                         E
Supervision                        Q                                                  Q
Hfighly
D. Borrower Performance                      Satisfactor    Satisfactor      Deficient
Preparation                                 E              IA              El
Implementation                              E               [A             El
Covenant Compliance                         E              IA              E
Operation (if applicable)                    D              E              E
Highv                                            Highlvy
E. Assessment of Outcome              Satisfacton   Satisfactor    Unsatisfacton     unsatisfacton
El)           (I)               () (EE)
O  z               a                 O~~~~E



- 14 -
TABLE 2. RELATED BANK LOANS
Project Title/                   Purpose               Year        Status
Loan No.                                          Approved
Preceding Operations
1. Second Tropical Agricultural                                 1986       Closed
Development Project                                                       1995
PRODERITH II (Ln. 2658-ME)
2. Agriculture Training, Extension                              1987       Closed
and Research Program                                                    12/31/92
PROCATI (Ln. 285958-ME)
3. Agricultural Sector Adjustnent                               1988       Closed
loan AGSAL I (Ln. 2918-ME)                                                1990
4. Second Agricultural Sector                                   1991        Closed
Adjustment Loan AGSAL II                                                  1993
(Ln. 3357-ME)
5. Irrigation and Drainage Sector                               1991       Closed
project IDSP (Ln. 3419-ME)                                                2000
6. Agricultural Technology Project                              1992       Closed
ATP (Ln. 3465-ME)                                                         1997
7. On-Farm and Minor Irrigation                                 1994        2000
Networks Improvement project
(Ln. 3704-ME)
Following Operations
1. Mexico - Rural Development in                                1998       Ongoing
Marginal Areas Project
(Ln. 4276-ME)
2. Agricultural Productivity                                    1999       Ongoing
Improvement Project
ALCAMPO (Ln. 4428-ME)
3. Renewable Energy for                                         1999       Ongoing
Agriculture Project (TF 023251-
ME)



- 15 -
TABLE 3. PROJECT TIMETABLE
Date Actual/
Steps in Project Cycle            Date Planned         Latest Estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)   12/02/91            April 3, 1992
Preparation                                  04/19/93        Apr. 1993 - Nov. 1993
Appraisal                                    11/03/93          November 3,1993
Negotiations                                  4/25/93            April 25, 1994
Board Presentation                            7/12/94            July 12, 1994
Loan Signing                                  7/19/94            July 19, 1994
Loan Effectiveness                            8/23/94           August 23, 1994
Loan Closing                               June 30, 1999         June 30, 1999
Project Completion                         June 30, 1999        March 29, 1999
TABLE 4. LoAN DISBURSEMENTS: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL
(US$ Million)
Fiscal Year        Appraisal Estimate           Actual         Actual as % of
Estimate
1995                  23.00                  20.44                66
1996                  39.00                  26.26                 55
1997                  55.00                  50.82                67
1998                  71.00                  80.75                93
1999                  85.00                  85.00                100
Final Disbursement: March 29, 1999



- 16-
TABLE 5. KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND OPERATION
Indicator                        Unit    Planned   I  Actual
Rural Investment
Small-scale irrigation
- Tubewells projects                            J   N               333            752
- Other irrigation and drainage projects        I   NO               505          2,251
- Area irrigated                                |   Ha.           29,013         86,478
- Beneficiaries                                 [   NO             10,980        17,321
Soil and water conservation works
- Subprojects                                       N      [        2,500        13,422
- Area                                              Ha.           58,000         58,678
- Beneficiaries                                     No     [       15,000       198,763
Livestock
- Projects                                          No               120         22,188
- Beneficiaries  Nig                                               2,560         91,119
Share of faieers in irngated crop investnents with >  0               10            Nla
lOha                                             __
Share of project investments in DDRs:
- severely affected by lower com prices          _     _ _70                        Nld
- moderately affected                                %                20            N/d
- little affected                                    %                10            Nld
Technology Transfer
Contracts                                           N              1500          2,279
Number of validation and demonstration plots        N              5,325           712
Soil and water conservation practices:
- Area                                           __50,000                       197,289
- Beneficiaries                                     N              13,800       163,544
Institutional Development and TrainngL
Long-term consultancies                        l                     108              3
Staff training
- Courses                                           N               825            220
- Participants                                      N             17,500         4,786
Feasibility studies                                 No               550            504



- 17-
TABLE 6. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
A. Project Costs
(US$ million)
Expenditure              Appraisal Estimate                   Actual/Latest Estimate
Category      IBRD   GOM    State  Prod.  Total    l)BRD   GOM   State  Prod.  Total
GovtL                                Govts.
1. Rural Investment    61.0    14.7 23.7   47.8   147.2  77.26    19.32 26.08    88.56  211.21
2. Agricultural      12.3     1.3  --     47.4    61.0   4.88      1.22  0.61    4.03   10.73
Technology
Transfer
3. Institutional     11.7     5.7  -       --      17.4   2.86     0.72  -       -       3.58
Development
and Training
Total          85.0    21.7 23.7   95.2   225.6  85.0    21.25 26.69    92.58  225.52
R Project Financing
(US$ million)
Source              Appraisal Estimate            Actual/Latest Estimate
Local   Foreign      Total     Local    Foreign      Total
Costs     Costs                Costs      Costs
IBRD                   40.40      44.60    85.00       59.50      25.50    85.00
Federal Government     21.40       0.30    21.70       14.88       6.38    21.25
State Government        9.0      14.70     23.70       18.68       8.01    26.69
Producers              83.30     11.90     95.20       64.81      27.77    92.58
Total                 154.10      71.50   225.6       157.87      67.66   225.52



TABLE 7. STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS
Original     Revised                Description
Covenant   Covenant  Fulfillment   Fulfillment                   Of
Agreement   Section           Class (s)    Status       Date          Date                  Covenant                           Comments
LOAN         3.01 (a) (b)        03          C                                  (a) The Borrower shall enter into a          hn compliance.
contractual arrangements
w/Guarantor, satisfactory to Bank to
provide transfer to Guarantor of the
proceeds of the loan to carry out the
Project through SAGAR or FIRCO.
(b) The Bofrower shall exercise its
rights under contractual agreement
referred to in para. (a) above in such
manner to protect the interests of
Borrower/Bank and accomplish loan
purposes.
3.02               10          C                                  Except as the Bank shall otherwise            In compliance.
agree, procurement of goods, works
and consultants services required for
the project and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan shall be
govemed by the provisions of the
Schedule to the Guarantee
Agreement.



Original     Revised                Description
Covenant   Covenant  Fulfillment   Fulfillment                   Of
Agreement   Section           Class (s)    Status       Date          Date                  Covenant                           Comments
3.03               10          C                                   The Bank and the Borrower hereby             in compliance.
agree that the obligations set forth
in the General Conditions (relating
to insurance, use of goods and
services ,plans and schedules,
records and reports, maintenance
and land acquisition, respectively)
shall be carried out by, or shall
caused to be   carried out by the
Guarantor pursuant to Section 3.03
of the Guarantee Agreement.
3.04               09          C                                   The Borrower shall participate in the        In compliance.
midterm and annual reviews referred
to in Section 3.08 of the Guarantee
Agreement.
4.01               01           C                                  The Borrower shall maintain or                hi compliance
cause to be maintained project
accounts; and have them for each
fiscal year audited; and furnish the
audit report to the Bank not later
than six months after the end of each
year, and furnish to the Bank each
month certified statements of the
Special Accts.; and provide the
Guarantor needed information
regarding statements of expenditure.
GUARAN       2.03                03          C                                   The Guarantor shall provide, in a            In compliance.
timely manner as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other
resources required for the project.



Original     Revised               Description
Covenant   Covenant  Fulflllment   Fulfillment                 Of
Agreement   Section          Class (s)    Status      Date          Date                 Covenant                          Comments
3.01              10          C                                 The Guarantor declares its                  In compliance.
commitment to the objectives of the
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to
the Loan Agreement, and shall carry
out the Proj. through SAGAR or
FIRCO, as the case may be, with due
diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate
fmancial, administrative, agricultural
and environmental standards and
practices.
3.02              109         C                                  Except as the Bank shall otherwise         In compliance.
agree, procurement of the goods,
works, and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be                                               o
financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan shall be governed by the
provisions of the Schedule to the
Loan Agreement.
3.03              10          C                                  The Guarantor shall carry out, or          hi compliance.
cause to be carried out, the
obligations set forth in the General
Conditions (relating respectively to
insurance, use of goods and services,
plans and schedules, records and
reports, maintenance and land
acquisition) with regard to the
Project.
3.04              05          C                                  The Guarantor shall, in a manner
acceptable to the Bank, maintain
within FIRCO a project unit as
stipulated.



Original     Revised               Description
Covenant   Covenant  Fulflllment   Fulfillment                  Of
Agreement   Section          Class (s)    Status       Date          Date                 Covenant                           Comments
3The Guarantor shall:
3.05              05           C                                 (a) cause Parts A and B of the
Project to be caried out in
accordance with the Operating Rules
(in the case of FIRCO Project
execution);
(b) cause Parts A and B of the
Project to be carried out in
accordance with the Operating Rules
as such Operating Rules may be
applied, mutatis mutandis, solely to
substitute SAGAR financing in place
of FIRCO financing (in the case of
SAGAR Project execution); and
(c) shall cause there to be no change
or waiver of any provision of the
Operating Rules (other than as
permitted pursuant to paragraph (b)
of this Section) if such change or
waiver may adversely affect the
unplementation of said Parts of the
Project.".
3.06 (a)          05           C                                 The Guarantor shall, through                 In compliance.
SAGAR or FIRCO, as the case may
be: (a) ensure that all proposed
investments are subjected to
environmental screening procedures
agreed with the Bank.



Original      Revised                 Description
Covenant   Covenant  Fulfillment   Fulfillment                      Of
Agreement   Section            Class (s)     Status        Date          Date                   Covenant                            Comments
3.06 (b)            02           C                                   Demonstrate all proposed                        In compliance
investments are economically
profitable and: (i) carry out an
economic analysis of each proposal
in fornat agreed with Bank; (ii)
apply the net present value analysis
at international input and output
prices; (iii) use a 12% real discount
rate to estirnate net present value;
(iv) accept only subprojects with
positive NPV.
3.06 (C)            02           C                                   Impose a minimum 15% cost sharing               In compliance.
on producers of the initial cost of the
investment in accordatice with a
calculation agreed withl the Baank.
3.06 (d)            05           c                                    Ensure that no miiimumn farm size              In coinpliance.
limits are imposed on producers
receiving finiancing from FIRCO and
such producers: (i) do not own farms
larger than 20 has. for producers
engaged in crop activities, (ii) obtair
agricultural technical transfer
services acceptable to FIRCO; and
(iii) are organized into groups for
operating and managing the
investmnents.



Original     Revised                Description
Covenant   Covenant  Fulfillment   Fulfillment                   Of
Agreement   Section           Class (s)    Status       Date          Date                  Covenant                           Comments
3.06 (e)           05          C                                  Ensure that the projects States sign         In compliance.
annual agreements with FIRCO in a
fonnat agreed with the Bank for co-
financing * implementation of
project activities and that each of the
projects States' share shall not be
less on average than 20% of the total
cost of the activities.
3.06 (f)           05          C                                  Submit to the Bank for its prior              In compliance.
review and approval all feasibility
studies for irrigated crop activities
involving producers who own more
than 10 hectares in accordance with
a procedure agreed with the Bank.
3.06 (g)           05          C                                   Submit to the Bank for its prior             In compliance.
review and approval all feasibility
studies for irrigated crop activities
involving producers who own more
than I hectares in accordance with
a procedure agreed with the Bank.
3.07 (a)           05          C                                  For the execution of Part B of the            In compliance.
project the Guarantor, through
SAGAR or FIRCO, shall: (a) ensure
that producers receiving financing
from SAGAR or FIRCO sign
agreements with SAGAR or FIRCO
which such producers agree to obtain
for agricultural extension services as
stipulated.



Original      Revised               Description
Covenant   Covenant  Fulfillment   Fulfillment                   Of
Agreement   Section           Class (s)    Status       Date          Date                  Covenant                           Comments
3.07 (b)           05          C                                  Engage the service of an agricultural        In compliance.
extension specialist to review the
first 50 extension contracts and make
such modifications m the procedures
for employment of, or contract terms
and conditions of, such agricultural
extension agents or organizations as
may be warranted on the basis of the
report.
3.07 (c)           05          C                                  Ensure that the Project shall be              In compliance.
carried out on the basis of a program
(including an implementation plan)
of trials of innovative activities for
each Project State, said progrms to
be prepared in cooperation with                                                    Z
CODE=IT by April 15, 1995 and to
be satisfactory to FIRCO and the
Bank.
3.07 (d)           09          C                                  Ensure that FIRCO, in addition to its         In compliance.
regular supervision act shall also
focus on: (i) additional training
needs for private extension agents;
(ii) the evolution, where necessary,
from extension emphasis on
maximizing yields to whole-farm
approach that emphasizes cost
efficiency & finding right
production activities for farmers
groups, drawing in part on farmees
own initiatives and ideas.



Original     Revised               Description
Covenant   Covenant  Fulfillment   Fulfillment                  Of
Agreement   Section           Class (s)   Status       Date          Date                 Covenant                           Comments
3.07 (d) (iii)     05          C                                 (continued iii) targeting extension          In compliance.
advice to the new macroeconomic
conditions of prices and production
activities with a focus on minimizing
production costs.
3.07 (e)           06          C                                 Ensure that standards and                    In compliance.
procedures for the utilization of
pesticides are applied that are
acceptable to the Guarantor and the
Bank.
3.07 (f)           05          C                                 Ensure that employment of all                In compliance.
agricultural extension agents or
organizations shall be based on
standard terms of reference agreed
with the Bank.
3.07 (g)           05          C                                 Ensure that no minimum farm size             In compliance.
limits are imposed on producers
receiving financing from FIRCO.
3.07 (h)           05          C                                 Ensure that the Project States sign          In compliance.
annual agreements with FIRCO in a
format agreed with the Bank for co-
financnmg & implementation of the
activities under Part B of the Project.



Original      Revised               Description
Covenant   Covenant  Fulfillment   Fulfillment                   Of
Agreement   Section           Class (s)    Status       Date          Date                  Covenant                           Comments
3.08 (a)           03          C                                   The Guarantor, through SAGAR                In compliance.
and FIRCO, shall (a) present to the
Bank a draft budget and a proposed
annual work plan for the Project no
later than October 31 of each year,
said proposed annual work plan to
be in format and of such scope and
detail as agreed with the Bank, and
provide not later than April 30 of
each year evidence satisfactory to the
Bank of the approval budget for
FIRCO.
3.08 (b)           09          C                                  Furnish to the Bank bi-annual                 In compliance.
reports covering all activities under
the Project for the previous six
months not later than Apnl 30 and
October 31 of each year, said reports
to be in an agreed format.
3.08 (c)           09          C                                  Hold an annual review of the Project         in compliance.
with the Bank not later than October
31 of each year to assess Project
implementation, based upon the
Inplementation Indicators, and to
review and revise, if necessary, to
satisfaction of the Bank, the
proposed annual work plan for the
following year.
3.08 (d)           09          C                                  Carry out a midterm review with the          In compliance.
Bank not later than October 31, 1996
on the basis of terms of reference for
such review agreed upon with the
Bank, as stipulated.



Original     Revised               Description
Covenant   Covenant  Fulfillment   Fulfillment                 Of
Agreement   Section          Class (s)    Status      Date          Date                 Covenant                          Comments
3.08 (e)          09          C                                 Promptly take all such action,              In compliance.
satisfactory to the Bank, as shall be
necessary for the efficient execution
of the Project if, as a result of any
bi-annual report or annual or
midterm review, progress in the
execution of the Project or in the
achievement of the objectives of the
Project is not satisfactory to the
Bank.
The Guarantor shall maintain                In compliance.
through FIRCO project accounts and
have them for each fiscal year
audited; and furnish the Bank not
later than six months after the end of
each such year, the audit report;
including a separate opinion on
statements of expenditures.



- 28 -
TABLE 8. ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS
Indicator           Unit      Irrigation       Improved           Dairy
Development       Pasture
Establishment
Beneficiaries that declare:
Receiving TA                 %            43              37               44
Increased income                          47               39              50
Improved nutrition                        21              26               29
IFRR                                     20.0             21.8             17.2
NPV                        $ '000       25,686           52,771           11,907
Total income increase                     24               12               4



- 29 -
TABLE 9. BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS
STAGE OF PROJECT CYCLE
FISCAL                                  Negotiations                                 TOTAL
YEAR                                  through Board
Preparation    Appraisal       Approval      Supervision   Completion
STAFF WEEKS
1992          2.0                                                                      2.0
1993         50.4                                                                     50.4
1994         16.5          22.9            3.5                                        42.9
1995                                       2.7             4.0                         6.7
1996                                                      21.6                        21.6
1997                                                      25.5                        25.5
1998                                                      19.3                        19.3
1999                                                       3.9           2.8           6.7
2000                                                                     6.4           6.4
Total        68.9           22.9           6.2             74.3          9.2         181.5
US$'000
1992          5.0                                                                      5.0
1993         54.2                                                                     54.2
1994         37.9          49.7           10.0                                        97.6
1995                                       7.3            13.6                        20.9
1996                                                      73.9                        73.9
1997                                                      90.9                        90.9
1998                                                      76.6                        76.6
1999                                                      12.3           4.9          17.2
2000                                                                    29.2          29.2
Total        97.1           49.7          17.3            267.3         34.1         465.5
Source: FACT



- 30 -
TABLE 10. BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS
Days   Specialized    Performance Rating
Stage of        Month/   No. of   In       staff skills   Impl.    Develop.       Types of
Project Cycle    Year   Persons  Field   Represented     Status    Objectives    Problems
Through          7/92       3       11        TM
Consultant
Appraisal        10/92      4      20         TM
Eng.
Agronomist
Economist
4/93      4       12        TM
Eng.
Agronomist
Economist
7/93      3       2         TM
Consultants
Appraisal        11/93      5       17        TM
through Board                              Economist
Approval                                  Livestock sp.
Agricult.
Procurement
Board Approval   10/94      5       2    Procurement       HS         HS           N/A
Disbursement
Water. Res.
Eng.
Gen. Mgmt.
TM/Fin.
through          12/94      3       6    Gen. Mgmt.        HS         HS           N/A
Effectiveness                              Financial
Supervision
8/95      2       20    Water. Res.       S          S       Budget problem
Eng.
Financial
6/96      3       21    Op. Officer       S          S          Budget,
Water Res.                           disbursement
Eng.                                  lag
Financial



- 31 -
TABLE 10. RANK REsouRCES: MISsiONS
Days   Specialized     Performance Rating
Stage of         Month/   No. of    In       staff skills   Impl.     Develop.       Types of
Project Cycle     Year   Persons  Field   Represented       Status    Objectives     Problems
11/96      3       31      Financial        S           S
Water. Res.
Eng.
Ag. Econ.
7/97       3       26      Financial       S           S
Water. Res.
Eng.
Ag. Econ
5/98       2       30     Water Res.       S           S
Eng.
Financial
12/98       1       1       Sr. Agri.       S           S
5/99       1        -      Sr. Agri.        S           S
Mssions were combined with preparation of the Agricultural Productivity Project



- 32 -
BORROWER CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR
SUMMARY
INTRODUCTION
1.   In 1993 and part of 1994, as a result of negotiations between the Mexican Government
and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the Rainfed Areas Development
Project was begun, based on the need to help farmers in rainfed areas whose main crop was corn,
to enter the competitive economy of free trade, after having always lived by farrning in a sector
controlled by the State through guaranteed prices for their products.
2.    At the end of the World Bank appraisal mission, which took place from November 3 to
20, 1993, the Bank presented the document containing the situation in the sector: low growth
rates in agricultural production, problems of profitability, capitalization and productivity in the
sector, inequality in levels of productive and technological development, as well as the features
that project implementation and execution should have.
3.    The Rainfed Areas Development Project, partially financed by Loan 3778-ME (PRODAT)
was carried out, in its early stages, in 10 of the country's states and was later extended to 22
states of the Republic of Mexico through the execution of the Project's three basic components,
Rural Infrastructure, Technology Transfer and Institutional Development. The legal instruments
of Loan 3778-ME were signed on July 19, 1994 and became effective on August 23 of the same
year.
OBJECTIVE
4.    The objective of Loan 3778-ME (PRODAT) was to raise agricultural productivity in
selected rainfed areas, through investments in small-scale irrigation works and other productive
investments, transfer of agricultural technology through the private sector extension service,
reduction in soil erosion and strengthening of the executor's capacity.
5.    The project's total cost was calculated at US$225.6 million, to be executed in five years.
IBRD would contribute US$85.0 million and national counterpart would be US$140.6 million,
referring to production costs paid by fanners, salaries of staff participating in project execution.
6.    The project consisted of three components: Rural Infrastructure, Agricultural Technology
Transfer, Institutional Development and Training; as well as three investment categories: Works,
Goods, Technical Assistance, Consulting Services, Training and Studies, and Supervision.
PROJECT EXECUTION AND RESULTS
7.    Producers' participation in the project was constant throughout the execution period,
since FIRCO's working method has always called for the active participation of producers in
selecting projects and sharing investment costs. This was strengthened by the incorporation of the



- 33 -
Alianza para el Campo, a program that operates by producers' demand and with the tripartite
financial participation of the federal and state governments and of producers.
Disbursements
8.    The disbursement of US$85.0 million, the loan amount, scheduled for five years, was
carried out sooner, due mainly to the willingness of World Bank staff to analyze, evaluate and
resolve requests proposed by the Mexican Government, as well as the efforts of the executor to
carry out disbursement procedures for investments likely to be accepted for discount and to work
jointly with Mexican authorities to deal with situations that could have halted the pace of the
project.
Implementation Indicators
9.    Due to the restructuring that took place in the project, it was necessary to re-propose the
Project Inplementation Indicators for each component which were applied retroactively to the
start of the project in order to facilitate follow-up and monitoring of compliance with objectives.
10.   Compliance with targets by component is presented below, insomuch as modernized or
rehabilitated irrigation systems, as well as livestock efforts, were carried out with the objective of
productive reconversion and of changing or decreasing unprofitable corn-growing areas.
11.   For the Rural Infrastructure component, the target was to carry out 808 small-scale
irrigation projects and other irrigation and drainage projects. This target was exceeded by 275%
since a total of 3,003 projects were carried out, of which 2,014 were existing irrigation systems
that were rehabilitated or modernized and 989 were improved irrigation systems installed in new
areas. With regard to the area incorporated into improved irrigation, there was a target of 29,013
ha, and the surface finally benefited was 107,019 ha, i.e., the target was exceeded by over 268%.
Of this total surface area, 80,094 ha corresponded to rehabilitated or modernized areas and
26,925 ha to new areas.
12.   With regard to soil and water conservation areas, 2,500 actions were scheduled. This
target was greatly exceeded since a total of 13,422 actions were carried out, such as: terraces,
water containment dikes, filtration dams, windbreaks, etc., which significantly improved farms,
thereby giving farmers the possibility of maintaining and/or improving their production.
13.   For the Technology Transfer component, the target was to hire 1,500 external advisers to
provide technical assistance to producers participating in the project. 2,324 technicians were
hired. The target for establishing validation and demonstration plots was estimated at 5,325 plots,
only 712 of which were established due to the change in functions in the Trust Fund.
14.   Meanwhile, in the Institutional Development component, most of the staff in the Trust
Fund's different areas received training at courses that promoted the best use of human and
technical resources; computer equipment was also purchased, making it possible to send and



- 34 -
process information more efficiently, both for service to producers and for the preparation of
reports required by agencies to whom the Trust Fund reports.
15.   Compliance with project objectives was due mainly to the incorporation of targets of
Alianza para el Campo programs which are included in the implementation indicators. The
following are some of the results of actions performed in 1996 and 1997 which, to reach full
development, require a maturation period of over three years.
* Ferti-irrigation
16.   With the execution of the ferti-irrigation program, in two years an area of 79,510 ha was
improved. The benefits achieved in the area served by the project translate into: an increase in
conduction efficiency that favors water savings, which translates into an increase in the index of
land use of around 30%, representing and additional area of approximately 23,000 ha in crop
surface. Of the latter, it is expected that 30% correspond to high-profit crops such as fruits and
vegetables, and the rest to grains and oilseeds, and energy savings are around 13%.
17.   The number of producers supported in 1996 and 1997 was 15,783, of whom 12,695
belong to the social sector and 3,088 to small farms, representing 80.4% and 19.6%, respectively;
of 100% of producers served, 12,468 (78.5%) own less than 5 ha, 1,901 (12%) own between 5.1
and 10 ha, and the remainder carry out their activities on farms of up to 30 ha.
18.   With regard to the area benefited, out of 79,510 ha, 40,426 corresponded to the social
sector which represent 51%, and 39,084 ha to smallholders or 49%. With these supports, 2,251
systems were consolidated, of which 1,024 (45.5%) were carried out on farms in the social sector
and 1,227 (54.5%) on smallholdings; the breakdown by type of system and sector supported are
specified in the annex.
19.   On farms smaller than 5 ha, 820 projects were carried out, 616 corresponded to the social
sector (27.3%) and 205 to the private sector (9.1%); on farms between 5.1 to 10 ha, 407 actions
were carried out, 213 corresponding to the social sector which includes ejidatarios and communal
farmers (9.5%) and 194 to the private sector which basically includes smallholders (8.6%); on
farms between 10.1 to 20 ha, 386 systems were executed, 121 on social sector areas (5.4%) and
265 on smallholder farms (11.8%); finally, in projects larger than 20 ha but smaller than 300 ha,
639 actions were carried out, 74 in the social sector (3.3%) and 565 in the smallholder sector
(25.1%); this indicates that the program's actions basically supported producers in the range of
fewer than 20 ha ( 71.6%).
20.   It is important to note that the systems that received the most support, both in areas of the
social sector and in smallholdings, included the following: 1048 multi-floodgates, representing
52% of all projects; 666 sprinkler projects, signifying 30% of total projects; these systems
benefited 11,223 producers (71.1% of all beneficiaries).



- 35 -
21.   The benefits achieved in the area served refer to increases of between 60 and 80%, which
translates to an increase in the index of land use of around 30%, used for higher-profit crops such
as fruits and vegetables.
* Pasture Establishment
22.   With the actions carried out in 1996 and 1997 under the Pasture Establishment Program,
eligible for financing, 46,771 producers benefited, 89.2% from the social sector (41,730), while
smallholders totaled 5,042 producers who represent 10.8%. Total area served was 520,338 ha, of
which 467,537 (89.9%) correspond to the social sector and 52,801 (10.1%) to smallholders.
23.   If one considers all producers, the distribution by farm size is the following: In areas of 1
to 50 ha, 44,807 producers were benefited (95.8%), of whom 40,096 correspond to the social
sector and 4,107 to smallholders; in the range of 51 to 100 hectares, support was given to 1,098
producers (2.3%), 861 from the social sector and 237 from smallholdings; and finally in the range
of over 100 ha, 866 producers (2%) benefited.
24.   The types of actions supported were: 6,923 actions to establish pastures (58.9%), 2,559
conventional fences (21.7%), 764 electric fences (6.5%), 555 drinking troughs (4.7%), 385
management corrals (3.3%) and 581 various actions (4.9%).
25.   With these supports, there is an estimated 31% increase in pasture area, and the supply of
feed or forage has increased 25%. With regard to herds, there has been a growth of around 20%.
Meat production increased 15% while milk production increased 18%. The increase in
production value is estimated at 15%, with a 21% reduction in operating costs.
a Milk Promotion
26.   The number of actions carried out, participating producers, surface and cows cared for in
1996 and 1997 under the Milk Promotion Program, eligible for financing under the project, made
it possible to serve a population of 23,071 producers, of whom 15,552 belong to the social sector
(67.4%) and 7,519 to smallholders (42.5%). The actions carried out benefited 374,699 cows, of
whichl33,768 correspond to the social sector (35.7%) and 240,932 to smallholders (64.3%).
27.   8,742 actions were carried out; the social sector benefited from 5,007 actions (57%) and
smallholders from 3,735 actions (43%). Moreover, out of all actions, 6,457 (73.9%) were
channeled for equipping production units and 2,284 (26.1%) were allocated for rehabilitation and
construction of infrastructure. Of the 73.9% of support granted under the category of equipment,
there are: 4,112 milking machines representing 46%, to handle 110,584 cows; 307 mills (3.5%),
270 cold tanks (3.1%) to benefit 15,799 cows, 137 packing facilities (1.6%), 75 silos (.9%) and
1,558 various equipment.
28.   Of the 26.1% of support allocated to the category of infrastructure, the main works
supported were mainly concentrated on: the construction of 482 warehouses representing 5.5%;



- 36 -
281 milking sheds (3.2%); 277 stables (3.2%); and to a lesser degree the construction of 124
sheds (1.4%); 87 milk collection centers (1%); 16 silos; and 1,017 diverse actions.
Milk sales have increased 54.5%.
PROBLEMS IN PROJECT DEVELOPMENT (determining factors in project execution)
29.   Project preparation took place from 1992 to 1994. Objectives were defined under
economic and financial conditions prevailing in the country at that time and were identified under
those circumstances as viable, well defined and precise for dealing with the project's target
population. However, as part of the risks faced by the development of a project over the long
term, the project was influenced by the economic and financial events that took place in the
country.
30.   One of the factors that affected project implementation was the financial crisis that
occurred in December 1994, causing a deterioration process in all sectors of the economy and
obliging the Mexican Government to re-propose its economic strategy in the short term, in
particular the program for 1995. This dealt with meeting four basic objectives: promoting
domestic savings to finance investment costs, carrying out financial stabilization, containing as
much as possible the costs that the macroeconomic adjustment produced in the economic and
social sectors, and establishing immediate programs to protect jobs and social well-being.
31.   As a result of this process, SAGAR as sector leader reassigned the operational functions
of FIRCO whose operations are undergoing resizing, formerly acting as direct executor and now
as SAGAR's Technical Agent within the Alianza's programs. All of this generally promoted a
very slow rate of execution in 1995 and the Technology Transfer component was left unexecuted.
* Amendments to legal documents
32.   During the second supervision mission in 1995, it was proposed that the Bank not cancel
the loan, and that the project be modified so as to acknowledge investments for disbursement of
actions that had met project objectives. In the first supervision mission of 1996 the Bank was
presented a proposal to acknowledge investments made in programs in which FIRCO acts as
SAGAR technical agent and meet project conditions, and it was also requested that the scope of
project work be expanded.
33.   In order to understand the basis of support for the proposal, the mission carried out an
analysis of the generalities and operating mechanism of the PAC, using as a basis the agreements
signed by SAGAR and the State Governments.
34.   From this analysis, it was concluded that actions executed under the Alianza para el
Campo in programs of ferti-irrigation, pasture establishment and milk promotion, are in line with
the objectives, components and categories of financing described in the project's Legal
Documents and authorization was granted so that investments channeled to support these actions
are incorporated as eligible for financing, and authorization was also granted so that project



- 37 -
coverage could be expanded from 10 to 22 states, by means of an official communication dated
July 2, 1996, which was consolidated by the modification and signing of amendments to the Legal
Documents on November 19, 1996.
35.   The Bank, the Federal Government and Nacional Financiera, SNC signed the amendments
to the Loan and Guarantee Agreements which established SAGAR/FIRCO has Executing
Agency, accepted for disbursements actions by the Alianza para el Campo that meet eligibility
conditions, as well as the expansion of project coverage through the addition of 12 more states
(Aguascalientes, Campeche, Colima, Durango, Morelos, Nayarit, Quintana Roo, San Luis Potosi,
Tabasco, Tlaxcala, Yucatan and Zacatecas).
36.   On April 21, 1998, State Government investments were recognized, retroactive to 1996.
The amendments to the legal documents made it possible to consolidate project execution with
FIRCO acting as its technical agent, by authorizing the incorporation of SAGAR as the project's
co-executing agency, and especially by declaring as eligible for financing the actions of the Ferti-
Irrigation, Pasture Establishment and Milk Promotion Programs supported under the Mexican
Government's strategy to reactivate the development of the country's agricultural sector, called
the Alianza para el Campo Program.
PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY AND FUTURE ACTIONS
* Project Sustainability
37.   The projects carried out under the project were those which producers requested and in
which, with FIRCO's technical advice, a technical and economic feasibility element was included.
Project costs were covered by federal and state governments' and producers' investments.
38.   The modus operandi of the Alianza para el Campo in programs where FIRCO is
SAGAR's technical agent, states that producers must contribute 55% of the total cost of their
project; the federal government supports them with 35 or 40% (according to the program) and
state governments provide a minimum of 10%. This form of integrating investments to finance
projects makes it possible to ensure that the producer will operate his project in a productive
manner and will make the necessary re-investments to give continuity to his project.
39.   During the life of the project, participating producers have integrated support from
different programs, according to their available capital, in order to strengthen their production
units. Thus, for example, low-income producers have collected the payment of wages for the
Temporary Employment Program, in order to collect the amounts required in the irrigation system
supported by ferti-irrigation. The project annex shows several examples.
* Future Actions
40.   The Bank, together with SAGAR, SHCP and NAFIN, analyzed the suitability of providing
continuity to the Rainfed Areas Development Project or integrate a new operation that would
include action supported under this project.



- 38 -
41.   When the Bank had a follow-up of results achieved in 3 of the 29 programs of the Alianza
para el Campo, it gave favorable consideration to the Mexican Government's request to integrate
a Credit Project that would support a greater number of programs.
42.   Therefore, in 1997 a project preparation mission took place, the result of which was the
Agricultural Productivity Improvement Project (ALCAMPO).
BANK PARTICIPATION
43.   The fact that this project was completed on schedule is due mainly to the close
cooperation of the Bank and the executing agent, as well as to the Bank's willingness to analyze
and approve the Mexican Government's request to adapt the project to the structural changes that
took place within the public administration.
44.   As executors, we may say that we can always count on the Bank when we need it.
With regard to the needs of the follow-up, monitoring and evaluation system, at the proper time
greater participation by Bank experts in its design and start-up would have been desirable.
LESSONS LEARNED
45.   The Project Coordination Unit was a key element in the project's success, since it was a
liaison between FIRCO's state management units which are the executors of FIRCO's programs,
and Bank supervision missions.
46.  It was the PCU's responsibility to implement all of the Bank's recommendations, handle
observations, coordinate audits with the offices of external auditors, and prepare the semi-annual
monitoring and evaluation reports agreed in the legal documents, as well as to ensure that
consulting contracts and studies were carried out in accordance with agreed regulations, etc.
47.   Another important point which has been strengthened in the new operation is to have,
from the beginning, a good follow-up, monitoring and evaluation system that makes it possible to
monitor compliance with objectives and targets and to implement ongoing corrective measures
without having to wait for the end of the budget exercise.
48.   Producers' participation since the subproject planning stage has been the motive of this
project's success.



MAP SECTION






IBRD 25277
RAJA  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~RAINFED  AREAS
Noo.W               .-.                    ~DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
C P  I NU   N U                                                                               -A
CA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~   HOR/A                                                                                                          - A
. . .- ...'4M ndy 
/,-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~x
P    -    /OP~~~~~~~~~  ~~~'  /J ~ ~   ~      D.                      C
Th~~~~~  ~ ~ ~   OP/NC O,~~~~~~~~~~~~~/*r,o//or, ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~    ~ ~ ~ c
~~ rorp/JR- ~~~~~~~~~P/4~M
CAOP/P~~~~ 00$' ///4r/J,  0$//0$  /o*/Mrj. o ~ ~ ~ ~ ~      ~     ~     SANLUI
.pdo,o.o/P,r RE    pOOr, o/-~~~~~~pP* ~~pirrokIF ./pk
QZ   t:                                                                                    o,



