Document of
The World Bank
.FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 12533-M
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
MEXICO
RAINI AREAS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
JUNE 15, 1994
'2   A.. _(RlEiEI!  ,
iFvre: X -h
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department II
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restrted distibution and mnay be used by redpients only in the perfonuance of
their offieiul duties. Its contents may no otherwise be disclosed without Wodd Bank a on.



Curemc  Unit                           Nixcan Now Peso (NSI
IJSSIZ,SSt                 t         N$1 railliot
(Jure 1994)
FISCAL YvAk
lanuarY I Dccmnber 1i
'*EtQfrS AN4D NIASR
Metrr Systcrn
ABOMlWITONS AND ACRONY1S
A(SAL                Agricultural Seaor Adjustment Loan
ATP                  Agricultural Teebrology Pmoject
BANRUIRAL              ational Rural Bank (Banco Naionai de C(edito Rural,
CNA                  National Water Commission (Cornisitin Nacionai del Agua)
CODEiTr              Delegational Imnrinstitutional Cotntittee ott Technology Tfansfer
(Comtui Delegaetonai Interiostufnonal de Trarsferetcia tde Teooltg )a
CONASUPO             n4atiotna Food Supplies Comnp,  (Compalba Nacional de Subsistettcias
CC' FL il LIE        ',,e Pla-mirg ..rm        _ .-:.c  J       P.ai.:fc .vo  hstatai.
DDg                  Rural Development District (Distrito de Desarrollo Rural 
DRD                  Decentralization and Regional Development Projeta
FIRA                 Ttust Fund for Agriculture
(Fideicomszos tnstituidos en Relaclfn con la Agricultural
FIRCO                Trust Fund for Shared Rtsk (TFdelcomiso de Riesgo Comipartidot
GOM                  Govemnenr of Me-Aco
IDSP                 Irrigation and Drainage Sector Projec
INIFAP               National institute for Forestry, Agriculture and Livestock Research
(Instituto Nacional de Investigaciones Forestales s AgropecuariasI
IPM                  Integrated pest mnanament
MTR                  Mid-term reiea,
NAFTA                Nonbh Amencan Free Trade Agreement
NAFIN                Natonal fr-nite Bank iNational Finsncleral
OFf4IN               On-Frti amd Minor Imgaiiol NetWorks 1i1provenient Project
PLAXAT               Nautonaj PLn for Ramfd Agriculture Deselopnteit
(pltn Natol par Ia Agnicultu  Temporall
PRoCAMPO             -rFde Uhetliuti,n ind Direct Producer Income Suppon Progrm
PROCEDE              Land Ceilificatton Prograt
iPrograa d Ceetifcaion de Derechos Ejidales,
PROCATI              Aguliture Trinaing. Extenson and Resauch Progrin
(pgl d CopaCiaci6o, Asicia T&entra e Intigati6n1
PRODERETH            Progranm for lnjtgrtd Rural Development of the Hurrid Trupies
(Prograna, e Dearrollo Rural Inegmrl pAr e Trd6pIo Hiintedo!
PRONASOL             National Sohdarit) Vrogram (tPengra-a Narional de Soltduaridad)
SARH                 Secrt  of Agricutture nd tiYdraut1i Renoureis
(Secretarji de Aglicolnra- y Recursos Hidrnliros)
SECOGEF               -ate Secreariat of Comptroller of the F ion
(Secetrf de a Cotrvdorfia Gmel de Ia Federacidis)
SEDESOL              Seatat for Soeia DeveLopn  (Seeara de Dertllo Social)
SOE                  Statotmet of Ex Editr  Estlo de Gastos)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
- MEXICO
RAN1D AREAS DEVELOPME?fl PROJECT
CONTENTS
page No.
LOAN AND PROJECT SUR.ARY ....    i
L TME AGRICULTURAL SECTOR                                       . . .     1
A. SectorujOutputandGrowth ....            
B. Straegy fo a Transition to a Market-oriented Agdculture .                             .......................  2
C. Ihe Adjustment to NAFTA .. .   4
H. RAINFED AGRICULTURE .......................-                                                   6
A. Bariers to Growth in the Rainfed Ara..                                                 6
m. THE PROJECT ............................                                                       8
A. Rationale for Bak involvemnt .       .       ............................. S
B. Lessons from Bank Experience. . . .                                                    9
C. Project Objectives    .......................................... 11
D. Project Description .      . ............................         .                     11
1. Project Components .........     ............  .................... 12
2. Project Costs and Financing ...... .     .     .     .     .    ....           21
E. Project Organizaion and Management .23
1. Coordinating Agency .23
2. Project mplementation .24
3. Procuement .25
4. Disbursement and Audit .27
5. Project Monitoring .27
F. Project Benefits .28
G. Environmeal  Aspecs .......................  ..................... 29
H. Project Risks                       ....30
IV. AGREFMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMVENDATION   .                             .31
A. Agreements Reac.ed .31
B. Recommedation ................................................  33
ANNEXES
Annex I.    Prioect Costs
Annex IL.   EsdmatBd Schedule of Bank Disbursemnts
Annex mI.  Organiation and Role of Coordinating Agency (FIRCO) and Project Unit
Annex IV.  Envionental Aspects
Annex V.   Selection of Project StaeS
Annex VL   Ecnonmc Anayis of Rural ivestumts and Soil Conservation Measur
Annex VII  Technology Transfer and Soil Conservation
Annex VI. Project Implent           Idicators, Impact Indicators and Implemnataion Schedule
Annex IX    Project Rexoting
Annex X.   Related Documents and Data Available in the Project Files
MAP:        ID No. 25277
'This zepot is buod onthe findia of o World Bak  aial missdon which vistd Mexico fiom November 3 to 20, 1M. 'iM
wision wa composed of MeasstslMme. Iohn Mocibre Crak Manr) Jobn Wse, Te.. Ron  (Dan., Johbh Glenn, and
1Jo1a Woolley (consultants). The Division Chief u Midhad   and dte Vaunat DrCtor is Bdeo Ssg=.
TM$s dotwA has a mstricto distnona and may be used bye redpiontos ir dkte pa*= of tber.
1  k dWu    tis lsoontents Synot otlmse be d         siestwlbot  WorldB      _XiM        .



MEXCO
RAJNE ARMAS DEVELOPMENr PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:            Nacional Financitta, S.N.C. (NAFIN)
Gua_mor:             United Mexican States
LExcutn  Agency:   Trust Fund for Shared Risk (FIRCO)
Beneelaries:         Farmers in 10 states characterized by poor rainfed agriculture with a high
dependence on corn.
lIan Amount:         US$85 million equivalent.
Tenns:               Repayment in 15 years, including a five-year grace period, at the standard
variable rate.
Poect Objectives:   The project objective is to raise agricultural productivity in selected rainfed
areas. Ihis would be done through: (a) investing in small-scale irrigation and
other productive investments; (b) transferring both new and existing
agricultural technologies through private sector extension; (c) reducing costs
of soil erosion; and (d) strengthening the capacity of the executing agency.
The proposed project is targeted to small farmers in the ten states, chiefly in
semiarid and temperate zones, with rairfall less than 1,000 mm annually and
where moisture deficit is the main constraint to productivity.
Project Components: The proposed operation would have three components:
(a)    Rural Investmnt (US$147.2 million total cost) would include:
(i) tubewells and related irrigation structures (US$21.7 million);
(ii) other small-scale irrigation and drainage structures (US$62.1
million); (iii) soil conservation works (JS$17.7 million); (iv) other
investment, including livestock production facilities and nurseries for
reforestation (US$6.4 million); (v) supervision by FIRCO (US$13.5.
million); and (vi) recurrent costs of operation and maintenance paid
by producers (US$25.8 million).
(b)   A4ricudal Tecolog   Transfer (US$61.0 million) is needed for
the central corn-producing area of Mexico to reorient agriculture
away from the traditional heavily protecd corn towaids activities
that can compete under free trade. The sub-components are:
(i) agricultural extension services (US$24.1 million); (ii) validation
and demonstration plots (US$2.8 million); (iii) soil and water
conservation practices and equipment (JS$15.5 million); and (iv)
recurrent costs of soil conservation practices paid by producers
US$18.6 million). All extension services and soil and wawter
conservation services provided under the project would be contraced
competitively through private firms. The proposed operation would



give additional emphasis to the creation of producer organizations to
support agricultural extension, to the resolution of site-specific
technology transfer problems, and to provision of technical assistance
to producers shifting from rainfed to irrigated agriculture, or
undertacing new practices,
(c) - Institutional Development and TraWning (US$17.4 million) s-/ould
strengthen FIRCO's: (i) capacity to design investments so as to
improve rural investment sub-projects (UJS$4.4 million); (ii) staff
training (US$ 3.7 million); (iii) infbrmation mainagement (US$3.6
million); (iv} expertise in the areas of soil conservation, livestock
production, and monitoring and evaluation of the productivity and
environmental impact of the project (US$1.6 million); and (v) project
unit (US$4.1 million)
Cost and Fnancing   Total project costs are estimated at US$225.6 million. Project baseline costs
Plan:                are US$182.7 million; US$18.3 million is for physical contingencies, and
US$24.6 million for price contingencies. Of the total project cost, US$178.4
million will be for investment, and US$47.1 million for incremental
recurrent costs, which will be paid by benefitting producers and the
Government.
Benets:              The project will directly benefit participating farmers in the ten selected
states. ExA:ted benefits include higher production stemming from a switch
from rainfed to irrigated agriculture, higher crop and livestock productivity, a
more diversified crop mix, and better delivery of extension services.
PRR:                 Subprojects must show ERRs of at least 12 percent to be eligible for
inLclusion in the project. The average net present value of a sample of 26
representative projects analyzed at appraisal was estimated to be US$7,000 at
a discount rate of 12 percent.
Ris:                Project risks are: (i) lack of counter-part finding; (ii) laci of producer
contributions; (iii) lack of appropriate technical packages; (iv) faflure of
farmers to continue to pay for private extension services; (v) failure to
adequately operate and maintain project investments; and (vi) lack of fuids
from rural banks to supply credit to participating farmers. These risks have
been and will be addressed by: (i) receipt of a first-year budget commitment
of Federal Government funds as a condition of negotiations and obtining
budget commitments for subsequent years during the annual project reviews;
(ii) requiring cost-sharing commitments by the producers before sub-project
implementation; (iii) undertaking continuous review by FIRCO's technical
stiff in order to ensure that unsuitable extension packages are quickly
modified to meet actual requirements; (iv) competition amnong private
extensionisu to provide quality services that farmers are wifling to pay for;
(v) transferring ownership, operation, and maintenance of project investments
to producer organizations; and (vi) estimating in the annual plan preparation
each year's financial needs and discussing with commercial banks, to ensure
that needs and available resources correspond.
Nvaty Categoixy:    Not applicable. The expected project impact on poverty will be indirect as
additional income and employment fior small farmers and landless laborers



- iii -
will be generatfd through incremental crop and livestock production and
diversification -Ato high-value crops like fruits and vegetables.
Estimated Project Costs, 1cing Plan
and Disbursemtente
(US$ million)
Local            Foreig               Total
L. Rural Investment                             67.7               51.5                119.2
I. Agrcutural Technology Transfer               48.4                0.8                49.2
m. bnstitutional Development and Training        8.2                6.1                14.3
Total Baseline costs                           124.1               $8fi6              182.7
Physical Condngencies                           12.5                5.8                18.3
Price Contingencies                             17.5                7.1                24.6
Total Project Costs                            154.1               71.5                M25.6
IBRD                                            40.4               44.6                85.0
Federalgovernment                               21.4                0.3                21.7
State govermments                                9.0               14.7                23.7
Producers                                       83.3               11.9                95.2
Total                                          154.1               71.5               ;-25.6
Disbursemei
Bank FY                    1-9       1996     1997      1998     I9
Annual                      23's      16       16        16       14
Cumlative                   23        39       55       71        85
a/   Excluding duties and tLXes.
b/   Includes an initial deposit of US$5.5 million in the Special Account and retwoactive financing of up to
US$8.5 mvilon for eligible expendires incurred after November 3, 1993.



I. THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
1.1    The chief problems affecting Mexican agriculture are restoring growth after a long period of
stagnation, man. :->.  the transition from a heavily state-controlled sector to market orienta$ton, and
adjusting to world prices as part of the policy goal of free trade. Solutions require further dismantling
of legal and regulatory barriers to growth, a continued movement away from distorted input, output,
and factor pri'mes, greater public and private investment, and more productive technology and efficient
technology transfer.
A. Sectoral Output and Growth
1.2    Mexican agriculture accounted for a'bout 8 percent of GDP and roughly 6 percent of total
exports i 1992. While agriculture provided about 18 perceTm of the value of GDP in 1950, it fell to
about 8 percent at the end of the 1980s. Productivity in the sector is so low that agriculture still
accounts for about 25 percent of employment despite its small share of GDP.
1.3    Crops provide roughly 60 percent of agricultural output, livestock 30 percent, and forestry,
fishing, and huuting the rest. The relative importance of crops, livestock, and forestry has shifted
little since 1950. Of the crop groups, cereals account for about 45 percent of the value of agricultural
output, fruits, vegetables, and legumes 29 percent, sugar cane 7 percent, oilseeds and fibers 10
percent, coffee and cocoa 6 percent, and others 3 percent. The five 'basic crops"-corn, beans,
wheat, rice, and sorghum-occupied 12.3 million hectares of the roughly 13.4 million hectares in
annual crops in 1992. Within the livestock subsector, cattle typically contribute a little more than half
of the value of output.
1.4   Sectoral growth from 1940 to 1964 was 4.6 percent overall, 5 percent in crops, 2.6 percent in
livestock, and 3.) percent in forestry. Sources of growth were expanding cropped area, shifting
rainfed to irrigated land, and raising yields in some crops. Widespread adoption of new cultivars of
wheat, sorghum, and oilseeds accelerated mechanization and more chemical inputs contributed to
higher yields. Fertilizer use rose nearly 5000 percent from very low levels in 1950 to the mid-1980s,
and about 2000 percent per hetare. Tractor use expanded on aggregate and per hectare. Capital
inputs displaced labor; the latter grew only 25 percent in total between 1950 and 1985, and actually
fell about 45 percent per hectare.
1.5   From 1950 to 1966, irrigated land grew by 194,000 hectares annually; from 1967 to 1985, it
grew only 126,0Q hectares annually. Irrigated crops cover about one-third of cultivated land and
account for half of the value of output. As real irrigation costs rose, irrigation expansion decelerated
from 3.4 percent to 2. 1 percent, and, as a result, sector growth suffered. The sector grew at around
2.9 percent annuaily from 1965-1980 and at 0.4 percent annually from 1980-1990. Some of the
decline in growth is further attributable to a slowdown in the expansion of cropped area, as the rate of
area expansion fell from 2.8 percent in 1950 to 1965 to 0.3 percent in 1966 to 1987.
1.6   It is now much more costly to use the two traditional sources of growth: expansion of
irrigation, and of cropped area. Scope for expanding total cultivated area, or increasing the irrigated
areas is narrow because additional land to cultivate is of poorer quality, such as semiarid pastures, or
is environmentally sensitive, such as wetlands and forests. Major expansion of irrigation is limited
because of the rising cost of new gravity irrigation structures, growing competition for water from
urban and industrial users, and the environmental costs of new groundwater exploitation in certain
areas. Other Bank operations- such as an Irrigation and Drainage Sector Project (ll)SP; Loan
3419-ME) and a recently approved On-Farm and Minor Irrigation Networks Improvement (Project
OPMIN; Loan 3704-ME)- seek to help restore the contribution of irrigated agriculture to sustainable



-2-
agricultural growth. Outside the irrigation sub-sector, however, sectoral stcategy w.vli need to rely -
more on measures to increase the productivity of rainfed lands, including new investments and
product diversification, both of which are supported by the proposed operation.
B. Strategy for a Tramition to a Market-oriented Agriculture
1.7   Past policy was highly interventionist. It set producer prices of major products well above
world levels through guaranteed producer prices and trade restrictions, while subsidizing key inputs
and consumer prices. A public company, National Food Supplies Company (CONASUPO), managed
a wide commercial network, including milk processing plants, warehouses, urban supermarkets, and
rural stores. The government supported parastatals, including 50 sugar mills, invested in irrigation
and other infrastructure, restricted land transactions, mandated production targets for growers,
marketed crops, and subsidized fertilizers, farm credit and crop insurance.
1.8   Those heavily interventionist policies ultimately failed to improve sector growth, rural
poverty, or the nutrition of the poor. Though agriculture grew at about 4.5 percent froni World War
I to 1970, it grew at less than 2 percent from 1977 through 1993. Rural poverty and malnutrition
remained severe despite guaranteed prices to producers and food subsidies to cosumers. Parastatals
incurred fiscal costs and economic costs in terms of market distortions. Official output targets,
intended to guide production to what the government considered optimal, led to inefficient resource
use. Restrictive intellectual property laws, conceived to protect Mexican consumers and to promote
domestic industry, hampered technology generation and transfer. Constitutional barriers to land
transactions discouraged investinmnt and diverted land into sub-optimal uses.
1.9    The past two administrations (de la Madrid, 1982-1988; Salinas de Gortari, 1988-present)
have developed an agricultural strategy to achieve the transition to a market-based agricuiture. As part
of the strategy to raise agricultural productivity, the Govenmment is stopping many of its historical
activities in agricultural production, research, extension, investment and input use, marketing, and
consumption. The strategy reduces government involvement in agriculture, eliminates nearly all trade
and price protection, cuts untargeted consumer food subsidies, and seeks to target spending on public
goods, poverty alleviation, and eases the move to world prices. The proposed operation fits into these
objectives as it targets poor rainfed farming areas that will lose income because of the trade and price
policy reforms, and directs public spending toward investments, not consumption (see para. 3.20).
1.10   Agricuitural policy reforms. The previous (1982-88) and present administrations have
sought to reform agriculture as part of a general economic restructring. With, support from several
Bank sectoral adjustmemt loanse both administrations have opened agriculture to intational trade,
with lower and more transparent protection or taxation. They disbanded most agricultural parastatals,
eliminated subsidies on fertilizer, pesticides, crop insurance, credit and machinery, slimmed the
agricultural bureaucracy, removed official targets for crop production and lifed some restrictions on
intellectual property. Specific reforms have been:
(a)    The Government removed guarantee prices for 10 of 1t commodities, except corn and
beans on the grounds that they were of too great imporance politically to be taken out
of the-guarante price scheme. It limited protection to wheat, barley, and oilseeds,
and removed tuaation on some goods (e.g., cattle exports). It now intends to eliminate
nearly all agricultural protection and to give direct income support to producers (see
A Pfilizer Sector Adjusun_a Loan (Loan 2919-MB; approwed on March 15, 1988) assud in redudion of heavy
fetize suWbsdies and in privatizing the ste falizer company. Two Aghicultra Sector Ad.usknet Lowas



-3 -
para. 1.18). The first Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan (AGSAL I; Loan 2918-
ME) supported elimination of guarantee prices and dismantling of related trade
barriers; the Second Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan (AGSAL 11; Loan 3357-
ME) supported liberalization of milk trade, and decontrolled consumer goods prices.
(b)    The Government liquidated many public agricultural enterprises, dismantled 17
parastatals, privatized 50 sugar mills and broke up much of CONASUPO's business.
AGSAL 11 supported development of a new sugar policy that allows more efficient
determination of sugar prices between growers and millers.
(c)    Many tariff and non-tariff barriers were reduced or completely eliminated. The share
of domestic output covered by import quotas fell from 100 percent in 1984 to less
than 15 percent by 1989; maximum import tariffs were cut from 100 percent to 20
percent with support from Bank Trade Policy loans (Trade Policy 1, Loan 2745-ME,
in FY87 and Trade Policy II, Loan 2882-ME, in FY88).
(d)    Subsidies for fertilizers, pesticides, machinery, and crop insurance have been
eliminated; the subsidy to electricity for agriculture has been reduced in real terms,
though not completely eliminated (see para. 1.14).
(e)    Mandatcry public crop insurance was stopped in 1990 and the amount of subsidies
from the federal treasury to crop insurance has fallen to almost nothing. Some of the
subsidized agricultural credit was eliminated in 1990, though remaining subsidies are
significant. A restructuring of the public rural credit portfolio, designed to separate
creditworthy borrowers for private banks and to exclude the most-marginal
uncreditworthy borrowers, took place in 1992.
(f)    Under AGSAL I and AGSAL II, the Government took steps to improve the efficiency
of its food consumption programs for the poor. It increased spending on food
progranis targeted to the poor, tightened eligibility to exclude wealthier consumers
and began a rural food program. With support from AGSAL nI, the administration
successfully implemented a pilot rural health and nutrition program. It is now
continuing the reorientation of tortilla and milk subsidy programs to the poor and
away from more affluent groups.
1.11  Irrigation sub-sector shategy. By recognizing that irrigation has been the motor of
agricultural growth, the Government's overall strategy places particular emphasis on irrigation. The
irrigation sub-sector strategy is to promote private sector involvement in new investments through the
transfer of the Irrigation Districts to users' groups, to transfer costs of capital, operations and
maintnance to users' groups, to modify the legal framework of the sub-sector so as to promote
private investment and water markets, to target public investment to priority rehabilitation of existing
works, and to limit investments in new works, in line with tight economic and environmental criteria.
The Bank supports this strategy and is assisting its implementation through the IDSP and OFMIN.
The proposed project is consistent with the irrigation sub-sector strategy, particularly in that it
promotes private sector involvement in ownership and management of irrigation investmens and
subjects those investments to strict economic and environmental criteria (see para. 3.20).
1.12  lAnd tenwe. 'Me Mexican Constitution previously prevented a special tenure class, the eji,
from participating in a land markete. In 1992, the Government chadged Article 27 of the



-4-
Constitution that governed land use. Major reforms included in the 1992 implementing legislation
iwc. ..) an end to land redistribution; (ii) security of tenure; (iii) freedom of land allocation; (iv)
freedom-to enter into economic partnerships; and (v) treedom for ejidos to change their form of
associatio  It is now implementing an ambitious land titling program (PROCEDE), that will free the
market fo. ijdo lands and allow their use of land as loan collateral. It is expected that this change
toward a land market will direct land to more efficient uses, with a major impact in the priority states
for the proposed project.
1.13   Legal reforms. The Government has changed other laws affecting agriculture. A new
national water Jaw (December, 1992) promotes the development of private irrigation and water
markets. The Government reformed intellectual property laws affecting agriculture. The new seed
law (June, 1991) allows private plant breeding, unfettered distribution of materials developed in the
public research system, and freer import of commercial cultivars. The new patent law (1991) permits
private ownership of food production technologies, thereby encouraging investment in their
development. The new intellectual property law (1991), in an important change from earlier law,
allows patenting of fertilizers, pesticides, herbicides, fungicides, foods and beverages, plant varieties;
microorganisms, and biotechnological processes.
1.14 The elecrieity tariff for agricultue. A specific issue related to Banlk operations in
agriculture is the low electricity tariff for groundwater, which has been a contributing factor to the
excessive use of groundwater in the past. From 1990, farmers began to pay higher rates and,
cons&quently, to improve water use efficiency. The Government's target was to arrive at rates equal
to 100 percent of the long-run marginal cost (LRMC) of energy by 1997. Energy rates rose 440
percent in nominal terms from May 1990 to January 1993, reaching 54 percent of LRMC at that
time. In February 1993, the nominal monthly increase was slowed to 0.5 percent, less than the
monthly rate of inflation. On October 5, 1993, the 0.5 percent increase was slowed to zero. TMis
issue was discussed extensively with the Government during preparation and negotiations of the
OFMIN project. Under that operation, a study will be undertaken to evaluate the effects of the
remaning electricity subsidy on groundwater use and agreement on follow-up actions will be reached
before any Bank funds under that project are used for groundwater development. In the proposed
project,, the groundwater development supported will be on a much smaller scale than foreseen in
OPMIN and will be done on a sustainable basis (see para. ?).
1.15   Effects of the reforms. Macro-economic reforms have been broadly successful. The country
bas cut inflation from more than 100 percent in 1987 to less than 10 percent in 1993. Weak growth
has been re-established after negative growth and severe instability in the early 1980s. It is too soon
to judge if the reforms have helped agriculture in the long-run; in the short-run, growth in the sector
has not changed noticeably. Experience under AGSAL I and AGSAL n indicates that the reforms
had only a mild effect on sectoral output and net agricultural exports. Private agricultural investment
has remained weak and public investunent has fallen. It is expected that private investment will grow
as confidence in the reforms develops, and as incentives to invest increase with the North American
Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA).
C. The Adjustment to NAFTA
1.16 Mexico's annual average agricultural imports from the United States were US$2.8 billion in
1989-1991; Mexican exports were US$2.5 billion, making the United States by far the largest
agricultral trading partner. Mexico's agricultural imports from Canada in that period were US$0.1
billion and Mexican exports were the same to Canada. NAFTA is expected to affect the sector
significanty. Te timing of NAFTA liberalization, given the present struure of trade, wiil



-~~~~~~-5
immediately benefit agriculture in Mexico more than in the United States. As Mexican protection
falls more after year six of the agreement, then relative benefits wHi shift to the United Staes.
1.17   Relevant NIAFTA conditions affecting cereals, sugar and fruits and vegetables are as follows.
(a)    Cereals. In 1991, Mexican imports of corn, sorghum, wheat and rice from she
United States totalled US$0.76 billion; Mexico exported almost no cereals to the
Unit States. Existing trade barriers hold Mexican corn, whest, barley, and
sorghum prices above US export parity prices. Under NAFTA, corn, the leading
import, is protected by a quota for six years and subsequenty by a high tariff that
falls to zero from the 7th to the 15th years of the agreement. Similar quota-tariff
arrangements protet wheat, barley, and sorghum. One overall effect of NAFTA is
likely to be significantly expanded exports of cereals from the US to Mexico, though
little effect is expected on Mexican-Canadian agricultural trade.
(b)    Sugar. The agreement allows more Mexican sugar into the US market over a 15 year
period, but at a cost of raising the Mexican producer price almost to the (heavily
protected) level of the United States. Expected effects are to expand Mexican sugar
production and exports to the United States.
(c)    Fruits and vegetables. Thbe agreement immediately lifts some US restrictions on
Mexican exports, notably on cucumbers, watermelon, carrots, seasonal eggplant and
tomatoes. Expected effects are to raise Mexican exports from irrigated areas at a
significant cost in foregone com production. Increased opportunity in the US market
is a significant incentive for the investments supported by the project.
1.18  The trade liberaation and direct producer income support program-PROCAMPO.
As part of its adjustment to the lower crop prices that are expected with free trade, d3 Government
has announced a broad policy change that will free agricultural trade almost immediately and provide
direct income supports to producers during a transition period. The agricultural trade Ii' -alization
component will be completed with a move to world prices fot all farm commodities by Octc jer 1,
1994. This would case the domestic producer prices of some major crops-corn, beans, wheat,
barley, and sorgm-to fil quickly, though to varying degrees. For corn, the most important crop,
the guarantee price of N$750/ton that held throughout 1993 will drop to N$6501ton in the fall/winter
season of 1993-9d and to N$600/ton in the spring/summer season of 1994; for beans, the next most
important crop in area, the corresponding changes will be from N$2,100 to N$1,800 to N$1,600.
1.19 PROCAMPO includes a direct producer income support component to compensate farmets
for some of the effects of the lower free trade prices. The income support will be roughly US$110
per hectare, given to 3.3 million farmers in 1994, the transition year. Those farmers will receive a
like amount in real terms for 10 years beginning on October 1, 1994. Beginning in the l1th year, the
amount given will decrease linearly and become zero at the end of 15 years.
1.20   PROCAtM    has severa advantages over the current system of trade protection. It does not
encourage inefficient production with price incentives because it is totally delinked from the quantity
of current output. It does not worsen the budget deficit by encouraging excess production of
commodities that CONASUPO must then buy. PROCAMPO is more equitable than trade protection
since it supports producers who received nothig from trade prtction becse they produced nothing
for the markt.



U. RAINFE  AGCRICULTURE
2.1    The 1991 and 1992 national agricultural statistics showed, on average, that rainfed agriculture
occupied 12.1 million harvested hectares of the national total of 17.2 million hectares in annual,
perennial, and seininerennial crops, excluding pastures. Irrigated agriculture occupied te remaining
5.1 million hectares. The average value of output in 1992 domestic prices was N$34.3 billion, of
which 42 percent was from rainfed crops and 58 percent from irrigated. The average value of
production per hectare from all crops in rainfed agriculture was about N$1148 and N$3708 in
irrigated.
2.2    The main rainfed crops are corn (6.55 million hectares), beans (1 -82 million kectares),
sorghum (1.06 million hectres), wheat, forage oats, and barley (ial roughly 0.25 miu1ion hectares).
The productivity of those crops is much higher when they are, grown with irrigation. Rainfed crop
yields were: corn, 1.76 metric tons per hectare (mt/ha); beans, 0.56; sorghum, 2.44; wheat, 1.74;
forage oats, 5.38; and barley, 1.61. 'Me corresponding yields with irrigation were: com, 3.70 mt/ha;
beans, 1.34; sorghum, 4.74; wheat, 4.84; forage oats, 19.23; and barley, 4.04.
2.3    Corn is crucial to rainfed agriculture as it accounts for about 30 percent of the values of
rainfed output. A national survey of corn production done by the Ministry of Agriculture and Water
Resources (SARH) has shown the possible effect of free trade. The -tudy indicated that 4 of the 6
million hectarus in rainfed com in Mexico would not be competitive . free trade prices. New
investments in irrigation, soil conservation, and agricultural technology transfer will be required,
therefore, to diversify out of rainfed corn growing areas into new activities, if extensive
unemployment and sharply falling wages in those areas are not to result; the proposed project would
support several such investments (see paras. 3.11 through 3.19).
2.4    The negative effects-on employment, wages, and income-of moving to free-trade prices will
be heaviest in those states where agriculture is almost entirely rainfed. Of the 31 states, 15 have
more than 80 percent of the cultivated area in rainfed crops. Irrigated agriculture is even more
concentrated-six states have 61 percent of the national irgated area-so the benefits of free trade will
accrue there, at least initially. Investments supported by the proposed project will be targeted to those
states expected to lose under free trade prices based on an analysis of the current importance of
rainfed corn there (see para. 3.15(a)).
A. Baniers to Growth in the Rainfed Areas
2.5    The main technical barriers to agricultural growth in the rainfed areas are: (i) unreliable water
supply; (ii) lack of technology transfer services; and (iii) soil erosion. Policy barriers are discue in
para. 2. 10 through 2.12.
2.6    Ureliable water supply. Rainfed agriculture is fundamentally less productive than irrigated
because of the lower yields due to lack of reliable and timely water supply. The principal objective
of the proposed project is, therefore, to raise the productivity of rainfed lands through ifigation and
soil conservation investments and related technology transfer (see para. 3.13). The project promotes
technical solutions to the problem of low productivity in rainfed areas, including a shift from rainfed
-toirrigated agriculture, improved efficiency of existing irigated agriculture, and invest     ton;entt
conserve soil and soil moisture.



-7 -
2.7    Lack of tecuology tansfer. Bank sector work" has emphasized the deficiencies in the
Mexican agricultural technology transfer (extension) service. Those deficiencies have included
inadequate staff training, inefficient targeting toward poor regions with small famers where private
extension is weaker,- unclear focus on the problems as perceived by farmers, and lack of cost-
consciousness among fte extensionists themselves. The Government is now attempting, with support
from Bank loans in extension (Agriculture Training, Extension and Research Program (PROCATI,
Loan 2958-ME; closed on December 31, 1992)), research and extension (Agricultural Technology
Project, ATP; Loan 3465-ME) and irrigation and drainage (IDSP and OFMIN) to strengthen public
agricultural extension services and to re-orient them toward small farmers.
2.8    One aspect of the Government's current extension policy is a gradual privatization of
extension. Privatization of the extension services consists of replacing public extension staff with
private staff, direcdy contracted by farmers, and with temporary and partial public financing of the
extensionist. The proposed project supports that privatization effort (see para. 3.34). Problems to date
with this scheme have been inadequate training of private extensionists, an excessive focus on
individual commodities and not on overall fanm productivity, and a lack of cost consciousness. Other
actions would be taken under the proposed project, which has major compcnents to improve
technology transfer through private extension and to organize producer groups in support of
investments (see paras. 3.22 and 3.26). The Bank-supported ATP is helping to strengthen the national
agricultural research and extension system; no further action is proposed under this project to further
agricultural research because FIRCO has acceptable established procedures for coordination with
National nstitute for Forestry, Agriculture and Livestock Research (INIFAP) and other reseach
institutions which would be maintained under the project (see para. 3.46 and Annex IlD.
2.9   Soil erosion. Erosion in rainfed agriculture is often more severe than in irrigated because it is
more frequently practiced on sloping lands with poor, erodible soils. Erosion causes lower yields and
higher r_oduction costs per unit of output, even though fewer inputs are used. Bank sector work and
other studies have identified soil erosion as a significant problem in the project states'. For example,
it is thought that 22.7 million hectares in the ten project states (see para. 3.15(b)) suffer from
moderate to severe erosion; average productivity losses on lands having those degtees of erosion have
been estimated to range from 37 to 75 percent of potential yield'. Under the agricultural technology
transfer component of the proposed project, economically and financially profitable soil consevation
measures would be extended to participating farmers.
2.10 Econoidc policy barriers. A long-standing issue in Mexican agriculture has been incentive
distorticns caused by Government policies affecting land tenure, output prices and input costs, and
fiacial intermediation. Recent changes in land tenure legislation, and a national land titling
program (see para. 1.12) are expected to help farm investment climate in the long term; specifically,
they should strengthen incentives in the project area for profitable and sustainable investment in land
and water resources. Given the scope of the legal reforms affecting land tenure and the time needed
for them to produce their expected effects, no further action affecting land tenure would be linked to
the propoF A operation.
2.11   Government price policies provided an incentive in the past to expand the area under rainfed
agriculture and to distort cropping paterns, notably to grow more corn and beans ta would be
World Dank, Aexk* - AgraAft rair&teZVmdn SerW= &bsecrReporn, Report No. 8&S-ME, Noveme 19-5;
and Wodd Bak, Mecw - Agrcutwal Techology Sector Review, Repodt No. 9297-MB, Augs I992.
Annex X, Project files, Wold Bank, Meac - Agr*ural Sector Memo, Yeltow Cover Reot, Chopter 9,
Ma  1994.



~~~~~~~~~~-8
warranted at import parity prices. The price of coa has almost always been above world levels since
1960 and was still 70 percent above the import parity price in late 1993. The domestic price of beans
bas also been well above import par 'My. The barley price is about 90 percent above impott parity and
the income of wheat producers is inflated by transfers from the public treasury. The Government has
announced its decision to phase out protection to the main crops by October 1, 1994 and w move to a
delinkod system of direct produtcer income supports as part of PROCAMPO (see para. 1. 18); no
furuther action concerning agricultural price policies would be required under the proposed project.
2.12   The rural financial system has been less effective in serving rainfed agriculture than
irrigated. (Some of this was related to te land tenure system, which interfered with the use of farm
land as collateral; see pama; 2.10.) High transactions costs in serving small and poor borrowers made
it unprofitable for private banks to lend to them, so such borrowers were mainly reached through the
public trust funds discounting loans through intermediaries. Poor administration led   l latter into
severe financial difficulties, and major re-structuring has taken place including impro- 4d loan
administration by the banks, and re-scheduling or cancellation of overdue loans. The restructuring is
believed to allow existing credit institutions to meet additional demands for credit expected within the
project. No new action is contemplated under the proposed project to improve the functioning of
rural financia markets. The overall rural financial system is being addressed in sector dialogue
between the Bank and the Government of Mexico (GOM), including a study of rural informal lenders
to identify measures to increase competitiveness and efficiency in the system.
2.13   Policies have also indirectly affected rainfed agriculture through protection to the
won-agricultural sector and through the real effective exchange rate. The former harmed the
competitiveness of agriculture in comparison with other domestic activities; the latter reduced the
returns to producers of agricultural tradables. The broad opening of the Mexican economy that began
in the mid-1980s removed much of the indirect taxation on agriculture and the situation is expected to
improve furter as NAFTA is implemented. Possible overvaluation of the real effective exchange
rate is a general macro-economic issue on which the Bank maintains dialogue with the Government.
1m. THE PROJECT
A. Rationale for Bank Involvement
3.1    The chief rationale for public sector involvement in the proposed operation is that improving
rainfed agricultural productivity requires new investment that has not been available from the private
sector. Lack of private capital, caused by the poverty of the beneficiaries, has prevented investment
in the past. In the near future, the shift to world prices will aggravate the previous lack of capital
because the income derived from two major crops, corn and beans, will fall sharply. Moreover, the
rapidity of the transition to free trade, though beneficial to consumers paying lower food prices, will
harm rainfed producers who cannot adjust quickly because of the inherent short-term limitations on
rainfed agriculture. The need to facilime adjustment among those producers, who have been too
poor to invest in the past and whose terms of trade will fall sharply because of the policy reforms,
justifies public sector support on a grant basis.
3.2    A second rationale is the public goods nature of agricultural extension and soil conservation
advice. Because the information provided by agricultural extensionists is easily copied and put into
practie, its supply cannot be privatized completely. Providing that information requires either direct
public action or public financing of private firms or individuals that supply those services. The
proposed operation supports public financing of private firms and individuals as part of the
Governmen's overall sector strategy of reducing direct public intervention.



-9 -
3.3    A third rationale for public seetor involvement is the externalities related to soil erosion in
rainfed areas. Those exteralities consist of erosive deposits into waterways and the permanent loss of
the productive capacity of land caused by erosion. Private actions are insufficient to resolve those
extemalities and hence public intervention is justified. Experience with public soil conservation efforts
worldwide suggests that Goverunent intervention should be limited to the provision of information
through extension "ervices (see para. 3.26), an approach that the proposed operation supports.
3.4   The primary rationale for Bank involvement is the need for additional financial resources to
support incremental investments to raise agricultural productivity and to stop the expected fall in the
incomes of poor farmers and landless laborers in the project staes. The GOM has specifically
requested Bank support for such investnents. Though investment funds will eventually become
available from 1iscal savings after elimination of the corn subsidies, and after the end of the
PROCAMPO direct income support component, palliating the effects of the new policy on poor
producers and landless laborers requires finds almost immediately.
3.5   The second rationale for Bank involvement is that this project, together with other
operations-notably the IDSP, the ATP, the first Decentralization and Regulation Development
Project (DRD ), OFMIN and the proposed DRD II and Aquaculture projects-has a catalytic role in
orienting economically efficient public spending toward investments designed to alleviate poverty.
Bank involvement provides an additional discipline to subprojects supported under the operation,
notably in clearly defining eligible investments and a minimum rate of return.
3.6   The proposed project is part of an integrated Bank assistance strategy, as elaborated in the
Country Strategy Paper of May 13, 1994 and discussed at the Board of Directors June 9, 1994. It is
consistent with the Bank's strategy of promoting an increased private sector participation in the
agriculture sector, guiding public investmnents to areas not well served by the private sector, and re-
enforcing the role of producer groups. The IDSP assists the development, rehabilitation and
maintenance of the chief irrigated areas. OFMIN promotes improvement of minor irrigaton networks
and complementary on-farm structures in irrigated areas. The ATP assists with the generation of new
production technology for rainfed areas. The DRD I operation supports social investments in the four
poorest states. Several investment operations-Program for Integral Development of Humid Tropics
(PRODERITH I and II, Loans 1553-ME and 2658-ME) and Chiapas Rural Development (Loan 2526-
ME)-have promoted agricultural development in the humid tropics; sector work is now reviewing
that zone to define lessons from experience and options for future strategy.
B. Lessons from Bank  perienc..
3.7   The major lesson from previous Bank projects all over the world is that once the incentive
framework is appropriate, it is difficult to do much for agriculture in the more arid rainfed zones
beyond agriculural research, extension, and some environmental measures, such as soil and water
conservation, without irrigation. Hence, the project components are limited to small-scae irrigation
and drainage, livestock production, agricultural extension, soil and water conservation, and related
institutional development of the executing agency (see pars. 3.17). The proposed operation targets
capital imestments to zones considered to have productive potentia (see pars. 3.20); much poorer
areas (f Mexico, with less productive potential, are part of Government's anti-poverty National
Solidarity Program (PRONASOL), which receives Bank support under DRD 1, and are expected to
obtain additional assistance under the proposed DRD U.
3.8    A second lesson is the need to involve beneficiaries closely in the design and management of
the investmens. Because the investments are small and dispersed, centralized public manageme has
proven to be unsu   le because it is too costly. Management by the beneficiaries is necessary to
- * - w i::_  12;AAne th hAnAflciaries from desikn and operation



- 10-
discourages good management and has led to the failutre of many projects. Individual investments
will be prepared in close collaboration between the project executing agency and the benefitting
producers with adequate financial contribution from thfe producers (see para. 3,21).
3.9    A third lesson is the importance of technical assistance to the beneficiaries. Technical
-assistance, in this case in the form of agricultural extension, can improve productivity on its own and
has many positive interactions with investments -in small-scale irrigation6'. Examples from Mexico
include the PRODERITH. 11 and some aspects of the PRODERITH 1, PLANAT and PROCATI
projects. Other examples from Latin America include the Second Brazil Agricultural Research
Project (Loan 2016-BR). Project design incorporates research results from lending operations and
sector work in Mexico and elsewhere. Those results include not only technical recommendations
which can be made to producers benefitting from project investments, but institutional arrangementS
for more efficient transfer of technology to the project area (see para. 3.34).
3.10   A fourth lesson from previous operations in Mexico has been the need for efficient
infrastructure operations and maintenance. Some previous projects, such as the Small-Scale
Agricultural Infrastructure operation (Loan 1643-ME), have failed to create an efficient and
sustainable system for maintenance. The importance of such systems has been demonstrated in other
operations, including Lower Piura Irrigation Rehabilitation 11 (Loan 1771-PE) in Peru and Cordoba II
Agricultural Development (Loan 1163-CO) in Colombia. Poor maintenance has led to inefficient use
of the works and to delays in new construction as the implementing agencies have slowed new works
while trying to do better maintenance on the existing ones. The proposed operation requires
producers to own and manage project investments, thus creating adequate and sustainable incentives
for maintenance (see pars. 3.22 and 3.31).
3.11   Experience with productive projects in DRID I. The experience of productive projects in
DRD I is especially relevant to the proposed operation. It was initially expected that productive
projects would constitute about 30 percent of project costs of the DRD) 1. Instead, they have
amounted to only 5 percent. The reasons for the shortfall are: O) poor targeting of the investments;
(ii) poor investment design; (iii) lack accompanying technical assistance; and (iv) the inability of
producers to meet the investment cost-sharing targets, which were 25 percent. The proposed operation
has the followung ifuatures designed to eliminate those reasons for poor investment performance:
Concerning poor tbrleting, the project has explicit economic and financial rate of return criteria for
investment selection, and finances investments only to producer organizations that comply with
FIRCO regulations designed to choose qualified organizations that can manage investments in a
sustainable manner (see para. 3.21). Concerning poor design, much of the Bank's support to the
proposed project will concentrate on small scale irrigation using professionally accepted designs in
Mexico (see para. 3.22). Concerning lack of technical assisace, benefitting producers will contract
technology transfer services under the project on a competitive basis; the operation provides additional
resources for FIRCO to supervise this technical assistance (see para. 3.36). Concernig low cost
sharing capacity, the Bank received assurances at appraisal that National Rural Bank (Banrural) funds
could meet additional demands for credit expected under the project. Moreover, the investment and
producer selection criteria under the project are expected to provide a positive and sustainable cash
flow allowing producers to repay this credit.
3.12   Experience with DRD I has also shown that community grants for collectively-managed
productive investments are inappropriate; the proposed project would instead rely on grants to
A n:lated lesson rom Meico is the oeed to exclude credit componets from projects wich seeJk to foster
technwlogy transfer, as is shown i the P,jed Performnce Audt Report, Report No. 8875 (June 29, 1990) of the
Nalioa Plan for Rained Agicuur (PLANAT, so as not to bias famewrs decisions to adopt technology on the
basis of sbzed credit provied by the exenson service.



- 11 -
organized groups of producers who will be individually responsible for the investments (see para.
3.62). Producer organizations have proven in PRODERITH II and in PROCATI to be effective
mechanisms to facilitate technology transfer and warrant further promotion under this project.
C. Project Objectives
3.13   The chief project objective is to raise agricultural productivity in selected rainfed areas. This
would be done through: (a) investing in small-scale irrigation and other productive investments that
shift cropping patterns away from corn; (b) transferring new agricultural and existing technologies
through private sector extension; (c) lessening the environmental costs of soil erosion; and (d)
strengthening further the capacity of the executing agency to achieve those objectives. The project
seeks to assist those farmers expected to be most affected by free-trade prices to improve their
productivity, by adopting new, diversified agricultural production systems and improved soil and
water conservation. The project would provide additional capital to poor farmers who will not easily
make the transformation on their own, introduce the new technologies necessary for a shift to new
production patterns and strengthen the ability of producers to choose profitable investments.
D. Project Description
3.14   The project is targeted to the areas where rainfed corn is a major share of agricultural output
(see the Map; IBRD No. 25277) because those areas are most likely to be affected severely and
negatively, in employment, wages and income, by free trade in corn. Those zones typically have
rainfall less than 1,000 mm annually. Annual grains, legumes and extensive ruminant livestock
production are the chief activities.
3.15 Eligible States. A basic feature of project design is to direct investments to the areas where
the negative effects of import-parity prices on rainfed agriculture are anticipated to be most severe.
The method for targeting investments was agreed by the Bank and the Government at appraisal. The
resulting final list of eligible states (Annex V) was confirmed at negotiations (see para. 4.1(a)). The
method is summarized as follows:
(a)    The contribution of rainfed corn to the value of agricultural output--including income
from all crops-was calculated for each of the 192 DDRs in the country. This
showed that 92 DDRs had more than 25 percent of their income from rainfed corn
and 48 had more than' 50%.
(b)    Ten states-Chiapas, Guanajuato, Guerrero, Hidalgo, Jalisco,-Mexico, Michoacan,
Oaxaca, Puebla, and Veracruz- having 82 of the total 192 DDRs, also had 29 DDRs
with at least 50 percent of their agricultural income from rainfed corn and another 19
having between 25 and 50 percent. Those were chosen as the project states. Free trade
in corn is likely to have a particularly negative effect on the project states because
much of their cropped area is sown to corn and their short-run alternatives are limited
without irrigation. The ten states have fewer alternatives, as only 19 percent of their
cropped area is irrigated, compared to 60 percent in the six states-Sonora, Sinaloa,
Tamaulipas, Chihuahua, Coahuila, and Baja California Norte-that account for 50
percent of the national irrigated area. The ten states are also now less productive as
their value of output per hectare is only 50 percent of that in the six irrigated states.
(c)    DDRs in the ten states are eligible to receive project investments. The majority of the
DDRs in those states have more than 25 percent of the total value of crop output from
rainfed corn, so the coverage of affected districts is high. The targeting of project
investments within the ten states to the most severely affected DDRs will be an



- 12 -
indicator used to monitor project implementation (see para. 3.78) and would be
reviewed during the project mid-term review (see para. 3.83).
3.16   Those areas have about 6 million hectares of rainfed crop land, or about 45 percent, of tht
1991 national area in annual crops. Ii-the 48 most severely afFected DDRs, corn production accounts
for over 60 percent of the rainfed areas: cultivated, and more than 45 percent of the value of
agricultural production. In 44 other moderately affected districts, the figures are over 4) percent of
the agricultural land, and over 20 percent of the value of production.
P1.  roject Components
3.17   The proposed project has three components: rural investment, technology transfer, and
institutional development and training. The total project cost is estimated at US$225.6 million,
including all physical and price contingencies.
Rural Investment (iUS$147.2 wm;!.ion).
3.18   FIRCO's suppc.t to rural investments has five statutory objectives. These are to:
(a)   Improve the physical infrastructure and productivity of individual and/or groups of
producers.
(b)    Coordinate the use of investment funds provided by the federal and state Governments
as well as producers.
(c)    Complete and/or reactivate earlier, incomplete Government investments and thus make
them productive.
(d)    Encourage producer-owned actions in organizing and adopting appropriate technology
(thus increasing productivity), accepting the responsibility for operating and
maintaining infrastructure financed with funds and, in general, increasing
independence from public sector subsidies and stimuli.
(e)    Cooperate with producers in the establishing socially and economically adaptable soil
and water conservation practices.
3.19   The investments in the rural investment component would be of two broad types. The first
would be construction and rehabilitation of small irrigation schemes. The second would be
reforestation, plant nursery, soil conservation, watershed protection, drainage, animal husbandry, and
plant and animal disease control. These investments would allow producers to shift, at least partially,
out of rainfed agriculture and into more productive farming. At negotiations, the Government agreed
to a final list of eligible investment types under the project (see para. 4.1(b)).
3.20 Selection criteria for rural investments. FIRCO has well defined criteria for selection of
rural investments that were accepted by the Bank during project preparation (see Annex III). The
fimdamental criterion is that FIRCO concentrates on underdeveloped areas with productive potential,
as de fined fom detailed agronomic and economic studies. The poorest and most marginal areas of
Mexican agriculture lacking productive potential, as defined in such studies, are excluded because the
productivity of investment is too low; those areas are assisted by the national anti-poverty program,



13 -
PRONASOL. In addition- to being in an area of productive potential, every FIRCO investment to be
financed under the proposed project must:
(a)    Be in a-high priority state, as previously defined (see para. 3.15).
Ob)    Be an eligible investment type (see para. 3.19).
-         (c)    Meet the technical and environmental rules of FIRCO, as defined in its Operating
Manual (see Annex III and Annex IV).
(d)   Have an acceptable economic rate of return (see para. 3.33).
(e)   Impose cost sharing of the initial investments by the beneficiaries in cash, labor or
materials. - At appraisal, a method was agreed to calculate the economic value of the
producers' contribution to the investnents, applying rural market wages as the
measure of the opportunity cost of producers' labor to jobs requiring specific
quantities of labor. At negotiations, the Government agreed that producers would
contribute a minimum of IS percent of the investment costs of all activities finaced
under the rural investment component of the project (see para. 4.1(c)). Producers in
fact contribute much more than the initial 15 percent over the life of the investment
because they pay for all operating and maintenance costs. In the case of livestock
investments, in which producers pay for all the animal capital, producers have paid as
much as 70 percent of total investnent costs.
3.21   Charact cs of beneficiaries. The producers in the target project areas have small farms,
generally in the range of 3 to 20 hectares. The sample of projects analyzed at appraisad had an
average of 4.3 hectares per benefitting producer. The project would target producers with fewer than
10 ha, although farmers with 10-20 ha could participate as discussed below. About 1000 rural
investments would be supported under the project, and at least 280,000 people would benefit from the
rural investment conponent alone. It was agreed at negotiations (see pan. 4.1(e)) that: (i) there
would be no minimum farm size limit on participation in the project; (ii) producers participating in
irrigated crop activities would not own farms larger than 20 hectares; (iii) projects in which any
producer participating in irrigated crop activities had more than 10 hectares would be subject to prior
review by the Bank and the share of such projects in the total of investments would be monitored as
one of the project implementation indicators (Annex VII; (iv) the eligibility of producers
participating in livestock activities with respect to farm size would continue to be detemined by the
DDR Technical Committees because of the great variation in feasibility stocking rates among DDRs;
(v) beneficiaries must be organized info groups for operating and managing the investment and for
obtaining technical assistance; and (vi) beneficiaries must obtain technical assistance acceptable to
FIRCO.
3.22   Imple    ion of rural investments. The implementation of the rural investments is as
follows. The Operating Rules of FIRCO (see Annex III) govern all investments. Under those rules,
FIRCO coordinates the design, contracting, and execution of the works. The technical design of the
investment will be done in accordance with the same professionally accepted standards in Mexico that
are used in the IDSP and OFMIN. The execution of the works is done by private sector firms or
individuals, with the participation of the producer organizations and the technical supervision of
FIRCO (see para. 3.68 for procurement arrangements). All benefiting producers must be organized
into groups for the investments. The producer organizations must sign agreements (convenios) with
FIRCO in which they agree to co-finance, own, operate and maintain the invements. (Land within
projea areas is held individually and producers are free to manage their own plot as they see fit.)
Upon completiot, ownership of the investment is transfefred to the producer organation which



- 14 -
3.23 The rural investment component has five sub-components: (i) wells and associated irrigation
facilities; (ii) other small-scale irrigation and drainage; (iii) soil conservation works; (iv) other
agricultural investments; and (v) supervision of works by FIRCO.
3.24   Wells and associated irrigation faclities (US$21.7 miUlion). The sub-component would
finance groundwater irrigation from tubewellsf, specifically well digging, electric pumps, irrigation
canals, dikes, drainage structures and related facilities. The project would finance about 333 wells in
the I0 states, or about one well per DDR every year. The average cost of a well is about
US$85,000, including drilling, lining, electrification and putchase of pumps. The water distribution' -
system cost is more variable depending- upon the type of distribution (canals, tubes), the distance
water is transported and type of irrigation used. FIRCO also finances many irrigation Tehabilitation
projects frequently where wells have been drilled but not equipped and water distribution systems not
completed or where earth canals are replaced with concrete lining. In the later case, there is a much
more rapid and efficient use of water. All well digging requires prior verification by the CNA that the
groundwater extraction is sustainable and that the well is not in an exclusion zone (zona de veda; see
para. 3.88)
3.25   Other smnll-scale irrigation and drainage (US$62.1 million). This sub-component includes
the construction of small catchment reservoirs, small surface irrigation systems usually less than 80
hectares and the extension or improvement of existing irrigation systems. The project would finance
about 505 such investments in the 10 states in five years, or about 1.2 projects per DDR every year.
Project investments would typically consist of: (i) electrical pumps; (ii) electric lines; (iii) irrigation
ditches; (iv) PVC pipe; and (v) installation of water management structures. These are high-priority
investments for FIRCO, state Governments and producers. Water is obtained from surface or ground
sources and is distributed though open canals or PVC tubing. Mostly irrigation is by gravity flow but
there is increased emphasis on sprinkler or other water-conserving systems. For grain crops and
forage production irrigation is sometimes used as a supplement to rainfall. Where subsurface water is
used, drilled wells are quite deep (200 m), although shallow wells are possible in some areas with
relatively rapid recharge of the aquifer. Electric pumps are normally used to lift either surface or
subsurface water to the canal or tube levels7'. Another type of irrigation investment is small earth
dams to retain rain water for uss in the dry season. These are multi-ue ponds that help to recharge
the aquifers, thus increasing the water availability in downstream shallow wells and providing water
for livestock, allowing for very limited irrigation and slowing down the rate of rain water flow, thus
decreasing gully formation.
3.26 Soil conservation works (US$17.7 miDlion). Effective and economically profitable soil
conservation measures exist, but producers do not always use them because they lack information or
because they are not financially profitable to producers without the attractive financing by the project.
A major sub-component of the proposed project, therefore, is promotion of soil conservation.
3.27   There are different categories of soil and water conservation activities, including small earth
dams (see para. 3.25), construction of various obstacles to water flow and erosion in ravines, and
terracing of arable lands. The ravine control mechanisms are effective in the long term only if
accompanied by revegetation of their slopes and bordering areas as well as changes in cultural
practices in adjoining arable areas, which would be supported by the agriclttural extension sub-
component. Physical works to improve soil conservation would be done through the rural investment
component by promotion of watershed protection and soil conservation works; a separate sub-
component of the agricultural technology transfer component would address cropping practices needed
to promote bet  soil conservation. The project- would support about 2500 activities of this type.



- 15 -
3.28 The soil conservation nmeasures assisted under the operation would be designed according to
SARHI guidelines8 and the experience in other Bank projects, notably PRODERITh 11 and
PROCATI. Emphasis would be given to on-farm conservation practices, such as green manuring,
vegetative barriers and minimum to zero tillage, rather than to physical works requiring high initial
investments and costly maintenance (see Anmex VII). Bank experience in soil and water
conservation" suggests that project emphasis should bebput on agronomic practices, not on the
construction of works imposed by a central authority. The former has been shown to be more
profitable in the short-run and more sustainable in the long-run because it elicits greater farmer-
participation in the maintenance of the works. Soil conservation activities supported by the proposed
project include both practices and works; the latter are designed, constructed and maintained with
significant input from producers, so as to avoid incentive problems. $oil conservation
works-including terracing, banks and ditches, and small-scale reforestation-would be used in place
of cropping practices on steeper slopes and in marginal areas where practices are less profitable. All
soil conservation activities to be financed under the proposed project, both cropping practices and
works, would be financially profitable to the farmer and economically profitable to society, effective
in reducing soil losses, and envirownentally sustainable.
3.29 Other agricultural investments (US$6.4 million). FIRCO supports other small investments
to intensify resource use, or to transform a particular agricultural acdvity into more productive ones.
The operation would support approximately 170 such investments. The principal subprojecs are for
livestock production-installations such as fencing, dipping tanks, corrals, pastures, and feed stores.
This class of activity includes investments that are of special concern to women, such as small-scale
(traspado) livestock production. In some instances, the participating producers already own the
livestock; in others, they would buy them during project implementation. Costs of acquiring livestock
are not included in project costs and are financed entirely by producers; they would not be eligible for
Bank financing. The principal livestock-related investments are pasture establishment, silo
construction and providing sanitary sheds or buildings for dairy cattle and pigs, water, fencing and
dipping vats. Producers also provide animals for the livestock-related investments; the animals are
not included in project costs because it is difficult to verify their existence and unit prices.
3.30   The chief purpose of the investments in wells, associated ir.-Igation facilities, and other small-
scale irrigation and drainage is to shift the cropping pattern away from rainfed corn into crops that are
profitable at international prices. Such crops include fruits, vegetables, pastures, tree crops, and,
where high yields are possible, grains and oilseeds. Annex VI presents a representative sample of 33
crop production investments used for economic analysis. Of those 33 investments, the following five
types are domiant Particular investment types would be selected for different locations within the 10
project states according to climate, the availability of ground or surface water, existing irrigation
facilities, soil type and market access.
(a)    Type I - Grains, ruits and vegetables. A major type of investment would assist
diversification of cropping patterns out of grains and legumes, which are familiar to
participating farmers, to include fruits and vegetables. Additional income would
accrue to producers from fruits and vegetables, which typically have higher yields and
higher unit prices. Yields of grains would also increase with irrigation investments.
The average gross income would increase from roughly N$1,250/hectare with a
Sc Anrnex X, Ptojept Ales, SARHA, Gum Tomca pmCos on en ci Ttopo.
T  AsiA e%pv  i reptd in Joi B. Dooles an WWim W Magah  ds.), gersed Developmenn
- _ *--   . U0..._16 OI*_4.nLA1 P,r Number 12.7 un. 19O). Tbe Mei



- 16 -
cropping pattern of grains alone to N$7,360/hectare with a cropping pattern having
tomato, squash, strawberry and lettuce.
(b)    Type I- Pastures, grains, legunes, frits, and vegetables. A second type includes
pasture crops, which are expected to become more valuable as incomes rise in Mexico
and which can attain very high and profitable yields with irrigation. The value of
output per hectare in this type would rise from N$6,400 to N$8,400 per hectare after
the investment is made.
(c)    Type IS - Tree crops. A third type is a mix of high-value tree crops. Tis type is
technically the most complex, but offers the possibility of high profits. One
investment based on tree crops provides technical assistance and land improvements to
existing plantations of banana, lemon, mango, coconut and guava produced by
farmers who also grow sorghum and corn. A second sub-type includes orange, lemon,-
tangerine and mango grown by farmers with tubewell irrigation that also permits the
cultivation of tomato, watermelon and corn.
(d)    Type IV - Grain and legumes. A fourth type which includes grain
production-notably corn, wheat, sorghum, and rice-can be profitable even at world
prices, if irrigation is available and adequate technical assistance is provided to
growers. A major type of project investment is small-scale irrigation, from surface or
ground sources, to produce grains for the market. The effect of irrigation, more
fertilizer use and technical assistance to teach farmers how to manage more intensive
production systems is expected to improve corn yields from about 2 mt/ba to as much
as 6 mt/ha, bean yields from 1.2 to 2.5 mt/ha and sorghum yields from 2 to 5 mt/ha.
(e)    Type V - Ranfed crops. A final type includes various rainfed crops, mainlv cereals,
legumes, pastures, and tree crops. The principal external input into this farm type
would be agricultural extension services and, in some cases, an increased focus on
soil and water conservation.
3.31   Recurrent cost for operation and  intenace of rural investments (US$25.8 million).
Operation and maintenance of rural investments has been a problem with many Bank-supported
projects in Mexico (see pares. 3.10). The proposed project solves this problem by giving full
ownership to the benefitting producers and by leaving them all the responsibility for operating and
maintaining the investment. This is now FlRCO's practice, and, while it does pose risks in terms of
the producers' commitment to the investment over its full life, those risks are acceptable in light of
the superior incentives for good operation and maintenance offered by the practice. All recurrent costs
of operation and maintenance under the rural investment component would be paid by producers'
organizations, including those incurred for soil conservation works.
3.32   Supervision of works (VS$13.5 million). Technical supervision by FIRCO is vital for
successful initiation of each investnent and would be required for each investment supported under
the proposed project. Supervision would consist of field visits and interviews with beneficiaries,
extensionists, and contractors. FIRCO now provides such technical supervision to rural investments
and their associated technology transfer activities from project design through compIetioni. FIRCO
has adequate staff and capacity for supervision and the operation would provide only incremental
financingin this area. The incremenal costs of supervision were estimated at appraisal to be roughly
'    M  Wp1tvbe proces is decdm PFIRCO. Procedhni de daSuwwimn TAmt sA & ; ;    w. -.



-17-
10 percent of the average cost of each investment. Supervision costs are composed of the professional
- time of FIRCO staff and travel costs to visit investment sites, which are widely dispersed around
Mexico. The appraisal mission defined a representative module of supervision activities as the basis
for estimation of the average cost of supervision.
3.33   Economic rate of return criterion. The proposed project would seek to ensure that
subprojects in the rural investment component are economically profitable. To this end, for all those
subprojects, the Government agreed to: (i) present the economic analysis to the Bank in a format
agreed to the Bank; (iH) apply the NPV of the net economic benefits to the subproject at international
input and output prices as the economic return criterion; (iii) use a 12 percent real discount rate to
estimate the NPV; and (iv) accept only investments with a positive NPV in the rural investment
component of the project (see para. 4.1(d)).
Agricultural Technology Tramfer (US$61.0 million)-
3.34 The investments provided under the operation will require farmers to manage new production
systems, as most of them do not have prior experience with irrigation. In addition, the output prices
occurring under the Goveranment's new policy will oblige farmers to adjust their cropping patterns in
order to maintain profitability and competitiveness. The change in production techniques and in
cropping patterns necessitate a substantial transfer of new agricultural technology to producers if they
are to adapt rapidly and efficiently. Technical assistance for non-traditional practices and enterprises
under the project would help to reduce information costs to farmers and thereby raise the economic
returns to the investments.
3.35 At appraisal it was found that in general FIRCO has been effective in coordinating
investments and providing technology transfer services, but less so in linking investments to
technology transfer in order to increase productivity, in promoting producer organizations and in
supporting actions to improve soil and water conservation. The actions to be taken under the project
to resolve those problems are more effective linkages between the rural investment and agricultural
technology transfer components, validation and demonstration of new practices, and additional
promotion of effective soil and water conservation practices and works. The agricultural technology
transfer component accordingly bas two sub-components: (i) agricultural extension, including
technology validation and demonstration plots; and (ii) soil conservation practices and equipment,
including recurrent costs incurred by producers.
3.36 Agricultural extension (US$24.1 million). A close linkage between rural investments
financed under the operation and technology transfer is essential if the full return is to be had from
the investment. Therefore, all producer organizations participating in the rural investment component
would be required to continue contracting technical assistance from the private sector under the
proposed operation (see Annex VII). Producer organizations in PRODERfITI II, in PROCATI and
in FIRCO's experience have been effective mechanisms to facilitate technology transfer and warrant
furer promotion under this project. At negotiations, the Government agreed: (i) on standard terms
of reference for agricultural technology transfer activities; (ii) that FIRCO would maintain its practice
of signing agreements acceptable to the Bank with producer organizations for the provision of
extension services for each rural investment financed under the project; and (iii) that FIRCO would
make express provision in those agreements to show that producers have been informed adequately of
their rights to choose freely extension services provided under the project (see para. 4.1(I)). The
project's agricultural technology transfer component would be directed automatically to the ten states,
because it would be obligatory fbr all producer organizations in the rural investnent component to
obtain extension services.



- 18 -
3.37   FIRCO and the producer organizations would finance the technology transfer contracts. This
is done by FIRCO and the producer organization as follows: Year 1, PIRCO 80 percent/producer
organization 20 percent, Year 2, 60 percent/40 percent; Year 3, 40 percent/60 percent; Year 4, 20
percent/8Q percent; Year 5, 0 percentl00 percent FIRCO and other agricultural trust funds, such as
the Trust Fund for Agriculture (FIRA), use this scheme, which would be maintained under the
proposed project (see para.: 336).
3.38   Producer organizations and FIRCO would contract jointly extension staff under the proposed
project on a competitive basis (see pama. 3.72). Experience with this contracting of private extension
under PRODERITH It (and through FIRA) has shown that it is feasible and provides effective
services to farmers. The private professionals work under the direct supervision of the producers and,
in some cases, are very closely involved with daily management of the investnent. This type of
contract allows producers to monitor performance of the extension agents very closely. Producers are
free to extend, terminate, or otherwise modify the terms of their contracts with the extension agents.
One illustration of this freedom is the term of the contract. Although, in principle, the term is for five
years, the term is usually shorter because producers quickly learn what they need from the
extensionist. This fact obliges extensionists to continuously impart new information to producers in
order to maintain their employment. In addition, producers can and do give additional payments for
good work.
3.39   The proposed operation would finance approximately 1,500 extension contracts in the project
area (see paras. 3.24 through 3.29). The average base cost per contract was estimated at appraisal at
US$14,800, most of which consists of the cost of professional services.
3.40 Technology validation and demonstration plots (US$2.8 dillion). A basic activity of any
agricultural extension service is to vaiidate and demonstrate new productive techniques. The proposed
operation would support expanding this activity in order to assist technical changes in farming
necessitated by the new price conditions and the availability of irrigation and other investments. The
proposed operation would finance an estimated 5,325 validation and demonstration plots in the project
area, to be carried out jointly by FIRCO and cooperating producer organizations. The average base
cost per hectare in a plot would be about US$430, most of which consists of inputs needed to plant,
cultivate and harvest the crops under validation or demonstration.
3.41   Soil consrvation practices (US$15.2 million). Soil conservation practices require small
investments of capital but considerable technical assistance input. The most important practices are
contour plowing, minimum tillage, maintenance of soil cover, incorporation of organic matter,
planting of perennial forage crops, vegetative terraces, line fences, intercropping, and application of
lime or dolomite. The practices will be promoted through private extension services contracted by
FIRCO and producer organizations. The project would assist with approximately 50,000 hectares of
soil conservation practices on farmers' land. The average base cost was estimated at appraisal to be
roughly US$80 per hectare; economic analysis has shown that the marginal benefits of soil
conservation exceed the marginal costs at the project's cutoff rate of return of 12 percent (see Annex
VI).
3.42 Soil conservation equipment (US$0.3 nillion). FIRCO requires some specialized farm
equipment for validations and demonstrations of some soil conservation practices. This would be
financed under the project for FIRCO's use in an amount of US$0.3 illion.
3.43   Reaurent costs for soil conservation practices (US$18.6 million). Recurrent costs of soil
conservation practices would be paid entirely by producer organizations.
3.44  Superviion by FIRCO of technoloev transfwr. Supervision bv FIRMO of the agricultumrl



- 19 -
Because of the innovative nature of the technology transfer component, supervision 'by FIRCO would
also focus on: (i) additional training needs of private extensionists; (ii) the evolution where needed
from the present extension emphasis on maximizing yield to a whole-farm approach that emphasizes
cost efficiency and finding the right production activity for panicular groups of farmers, drawing in
part on farmers' own initiatives and ideas; and (iii) targeting extension advice to the new conditions of
prices and production activities with a focus on minimizing production costs.
3.45   Adequacy of private extension services. During project preparation, Bank staff reviewed the
availability of private extension services in a representative sample of project areas and found it to be
satisfactory. It is expected that financing under the project will encourage Mexican extension firms to
offer additional services in the project areas. The qualifications of the firms and individuals expected
to provide extension services under the project has been reviewed during preparation and appraisal
and found to be satisfactory; as a practical matter, most of the private extensionists participating in
the project are former staff members of SARH who were retrenched during the staff cutbacks of the
1980s; their qualifications will generally be the same as those of SARH personnel.
3.46   Adequacy of researh results. It is expected that the existing body of research results are
adequate to support project activities. FIRCO's project selection procedures (see Annex III) require
that the CODEITT (D3elegational Interinstitutional Coittees of Technology Transfer) confirm that
adequate results are available to sustain project investments. FIRCO's preparation documents show
technology needs in every DDR of the country by crop, type of action required and responsible
agency"'. In addition, the ATP is implementing a shift in research priorities toward rainfed and
tropical areas. This is expected to provide tie basic research results which the proposed project would
submit to review, adaptive trials and demonstrations.
3.47   Diversification of farning activities. The major objective of the proposed project is to
increase agricultural productivity through investments in irrigation and support to a shift in the
croppitg pattern away from corn. Shifting the cropping pattern will require additional effort to
validate and demonstrate innovative farmimg techniques and crops. To assist this effort, FIRCO in
collaboration with the CODEIT and INIFAP, would be required to produce an acceptable program
of trials of innovative activities, including an implementation plan for the program, for each project
state by April 15, 1995 (see para. 4.1(f)).
Istiftuional Development and Training (US$17.4 miNlion)
3.48   FIRCO is a well-established institution with experience in coordinating the same activities that
would be supported under the proposed operation. Its institutional structure, job classifications, skills
mix, and operational procedures were reviewed during preparation and found satisfactory by the
Bank. The strengthening of activities financed through PIRCO under the proposed operation will have
five sub-components: (i) investment design capacity; (ii) staff training; (iii) information management;
(tv) specialized consultancies in environmental questions, livestock production, monitoring and
evaluation; and (v) a project unit to manage specific aspects of the operation related to Bank financing
and supervision.
3.49   Investme  design capaity (US$4.4 million). FIRCO has experience in the supervision of
project design, but requires additional resources to sub-contract the design work for the 10 project
states. The project would therefore finance the feas!bility and design studies (integrad6n de
expdentes adcos) neessary for the planning and execation of subprojects in the rural investment
II    See ftojr Me, I9RCO, N'eao de DewarroUo tie Areas de Temporal-Jerarquizad6ny Pell de los lows



20 -
component; these would be done mainly by consultants contracted by FIRCCO (see para. 3.72), The
Bank received assurances at appraisal that adequate private sector capacity exists to design the
necessay investments. The cost of this sub-component has been estimated on the basis of the numbers
of feasibility studies expected from the project implementation schedule (see Am" VIII) and the
average cost per feasibility study estimated at appraisal to be about US$9,000.
3.50   Staff training (US$3.7 million). To assist FIRCO to carry out project activities, the operation
would finance professional and other training. The training courses would generally be contacted out
to specialist institt.icns, but some resources would be allocated to suppot FIRCtYs in-house training
capacity. The areas Co staff training will be:
(a)    Administration. This includes training in computing, communications, office
management, financial management, price analysis, auditing, and procurement, with
the general purpose of bettering FIRCO's business efflciency.
(b)   Infrastructure contracting management. This includes construction, analysis of
bids, procurement and supervision of works, and relevant aspects of national
legislation with the goal of upgrading FIRCO's capacity to supervise the work of
private contractors.
(c)    Agriculture. This includes crops, livestock, and forestry in such fields as soil and
water conserve-ion, irrigation methods, project evaluation, the role of drainage in
agriculture, and farm management witn the goal of improving FIRCO staff skills in
project identification, initial evaluation, and review of externally contracted designs
and feasibility studies.
(d)    Producer organizations. FIRCO requires that producers receiving its support be
organized in groups. This fact, and the subsequent transfer of ownership of investment
to the beneficiary organizations, provide continuing impetus for the creation and
maintenance of the organizations. To promote producer organizations, and to assist
them in being more effective, the proposed project would emphasize further training
for FIRCO staff and private extensionists in creating and/or strengthiening producer
organizations to suDport subproject implementation and technology transfer.
3.51 Information management (US$3.6 million). FIRCO has made a continuous effort to monitor
and evaluate its programs. Part of that effort is greater decentralization of authority to FIRCO's state
and local offices. To further this effort and to promote more rapid information flow within a
decentralized agency, the project would finance additional equipment to assist in physical monitoring,
financial reporting and evaluating the project. This would include computer equipment and
accessories, as the additional information needs of the project for monitoring and control will require
the acceleration of FIRCO's current program. The up-grading of FIRCO's documentation center
would also be financed under the project so as to provide more current information and means of
accessmg it.
3.52   Spedalzed consultancies (US$1.6 million). Several features of the project will require
additional specialized expertise for FIRCO. The dispersion of the project, and its composition in
many small subprojects, increases the need for monitoring and evaluation (M&E) expertise. Though
some of this will be provided through the acquisition of computing and communication equipment,
and through stAff training, an overall technical perspective is needed. Tha perspective will be given
through a consultancy on M&E which will focus on the productivity and environmental impacts of the
project. The project's emphasis on rainfed areas, where the risk of soil erosion is high and the
importance of soil conservation measures under the project, necessitate additional skills in identifring
_:1~ ___:             _ _ _S     _      .  _   _   _  .  *   *



- 21 -
an environmental management consultancy that will also focus on integrated pest management (IPM)
issues. The importance of livestock investments under the project will require assistance in that area.
The project would finance three long-term consultant advisors to FIRCO in those fields,-providing a
total of about 108 consultant-months. At negotiations, the Government agreed to terns of reference
acceptable to the Bank for consultancies for monitoring and evaluation, environmental management
(soil conservation and IPM) and livestock production (see para. 4. 1 (g)).
3.53   Project Unit and recurrent costs (US$4.1 million). A Project Unit has been created to
facilitate procurement, disbursement, audit and contracting and would also be responsible for
reporting on project implementation to the Bank. It would report directly to the Director Generat of
FIRCO. Incremental recurrent costs incurred by project activities would be financed entirely by the
Government.
2. Project Costs and Financing
3.54  Total project costs are estimated at US$225.6 million including contingencies (Table 1). The
project would be implemented over a five year period, which roughly coincides with the projected
initial adjustment period to free trade prices. Base costs are US$182.7 million. Physical contingencies
are estimated at 10 percent of base costs or US$18.3 million in total. Price contingencies during
implementation are estimated at US$24.6 million, or 12 percent of base costs plus physical
contingencies. Annual price increases have been applied to local costs at the projected Mexican rate of
inflation and to foreign costs at the U.S. rate of inflation. The sum of physical and price
contingencies is US$42.9 million, or 23 percent of base costs.
3.55 The Bank would finance about 38 percent of total project costs, excluding taxes. The rural
investment component would be co-financed by the state governments as determined by the annual
agreements signed between FIRCO and the state governments (Table 2), which have been signed for
1994. These agreements are an established part of FIRCO's operations and provide an adequate
foundation for the additional project activities. The states now co-finance about 30 percent of mural
investment costs on average. Under the arrangements of the proposed project, the state governments
would maintain their contribution to existing investments; at negotiations, FIRCO agreed that state
governments would bear on average at least 20 percent of the total investment costs for activities
financed under the project's rural investment component. The lower rate of incremental state
participation under the project is in recognition of the fact that the move to free trade probably will
affect adversely the finances of the states through its initial negative effects on income, employment,
and wages. At negotiations, the Government agreed that the state governments would: (i) bear on
average at least 20 percent of the investment costs of activities financed under the rural investment
component; and (ii) sign agreements witi FIRCO in a format agreed with the Bank governing project
implementation and financing in each state (see para. 4.1(i)).



.-22 -
Table X
EsFtmated Project Coss
(US$ million)
COMPONENT                                           Local        Foreign      Total
1. RURAL INVES-IMENT
Wells                                                8.7          8.9         17.6
Other irrigation and drainage                       15.3         35.1         504
Soil conservation                                 - 10.8          3.6    .   14.4
Other agricultural investments                       2.0          3.3          5.3
Technical supervision                                8.2          2.7         10.9
Subtotal                                           45.0         53.6         98.6
II. AGRICULTURAL TECHNOLOGY TRANSFER
Agricultural extension                              21.3          0.6         21.9
Soil conservation practices and equipment           12.3          0.3         12.6
Subtotal                                           33.6          0.9         34.5
m. INSTrITTIONAL DEVELOPMENT AND TRAINING
Investment design capacity                           3.3          0.4          3.6
Staff training                                       0.8          2.3          3.1
Information management                               1.0          2.1          3.1
Specialized Consultancies                            1.0          0.3          1.3
Project Unit                                         0.3          0.8          1.1
Subtotal                                            6.3          5.8         12.1
INCREMENTAL RECURRENT COSTS
Rural investment                                    20.5          0.0         20.5
Agricultural technology transfer                    14.8          0.0         14.8
Institutional development and training               2.0          0.3          2.3
Subtotal                                           37.3          0.3         37.6
TOTAL BASELINE COSTS                               12.            8          182.7
Physical contingencies                              12.5          5.8         18.3
Price contingencies                                 17.5          7.1         24.6
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                .54.1                         22



- 23 -
3.56  Producers also finance rural investments and agricultural technology transfer, as provided in-
the agreements between producer organizations and FIRCO. Such agreements are an established part
of FIRCO operations and are required for all activities of FIRCO. Sample agreements were reviewed
at appraisal and found satisfactory. At appraisal, it was determined to the Bank's satisfaction that
producers have successfully financed their shares of past investments, suggesting that they would be
able to do so during the proposed operation. The Government agreed at negotiations that nroducers
organizations would bear at least 15 percent of the investment costs of all activities financed under the
rural investtnent component (see pam. 4.1(c)).
3.57   To permit FIRCO to. begin priority activities, retroactive financing of up to US$8.5 million,
or 10 percent of the loan amount, is proposed for rural investments, computing and communications
equipment and consultant services necessary for timely project initiation. Retroactive financing would
be limited to eligible expenditures incurred after the beginning of the appraisal mission, November 3,
1993.
Table 2. Project Fmancing
(US$ Million)
Plrojet Componeis          IBRI)      Federal    Producers      State     Total
Govern,m,ent. G v       Govemments
1. Ruml Investment                61.0        14.7        47.8         23.7     147.2
II. Agricultrl Technology Transfer  12.3       1.3        47.4           -       61.0
m. Institutional Development and  11.7         5.7         -            -        17.4
Tnuning
Totau Project Ca s                85.0        21.7        95.2         23.7     225.6
E. Pruject Organization and Management
1. Coordinating Agency
3.58   FIRCO would be the project coordinating agency (see Annex  D). FIRCO is a trust fund of
SARH and BANRURAL createn in 1981; it was merged in 1989 with the Trust Fund for Rural
Infiastructure (FOIR) and the General Directorate of Rural Infrastructure (DGIR) of SARH. FIRCO
has completed recendy a re-organization and decentralization, including rigorous staff selection
process. The 5000 employees of 1988 were reduced to 3000 by 1991 and to 1600 in 1993. Other
major changes include the elaboration of job descriptions and operational manuals, an efficient
information management system, and a program of staff training to meet new needs arising from the
reorganization. FIRCO now has the capacity to coordinate the proposed project, with only a small
additional component for institutional development. The state offices, which FIRCO maintains in all
the 31 states plus the Federal District and the Comarca Lagunera, have autonomy in the programming
and executing of their investments, thus allowing close contact with producer organizations, and state
and local Governments, in investment planning. FIRCO operates under an overall set of Operating
Rules that would be applied under the project. At negotiations, the Government agreed to: (a)
maintain in FIRCO an adequate organization, fimntions, and staff to coordinate and supervise the
implementation of the project; (O promptly inform the Bank of any proposed change in the structure
or functions of FIRCO; (c) not change FIRCO's Operating Rules without the consent of the Bank; (d)
maintain the Project Unit with appropriate functions, stuctue and staff; and (e} submit the feasibility
studies of the first two investment projects in each state to be financed under the project for the
Ba's prior review (see pars. 4.1(h)).



: 24
3.59   FIRCO has adequate experience in the priority areas and investment types. Four priority
activities-wells, other smafl-scale irrigation, technology transfer and soil conservation-are about.
two-thirds of FIRCO's planned 1993-1997 invesUnent program, which is a continuation of its past
efforts. All of FIRCCYs activities are co-coordinated closely with producers, DDRs and other SARH
services such as extension and plant and animal disease control through established technical
committees at the federal, state and district levels. Moreover, FIRCO has adequate experience in the
ten project states; approximately 34 percent of the current FIRCO program now goes to seven of the
ten target states and the average FIRCO program in those states was twice that in other states.
3.60  Role of the Natioial Water Commision (CNA). The CNA has- overall responsibility for
water policy formulation and implementation in Mexico. BTough CNA would have no direct role in
the project, FIRCO's implementation of project activities will be fully consistent with national water
policy and with the national irrigation sub-sector strategy (see para. 1. 11). FIRCO and the CNA have
an agreement on the division of labor for irrigation investments, in which nearly all of FIRCO's
activities are less than 80 hectares. Design-of irrigation investnents-supported under the operation will
be on the basis of professionally accepted national standards defined by CNA.
2. Project Iplementation
3.61   FIRCO would coordinate the overall implementation of the proposed project from design,
through evaluation, selection, financing, execution of works, supervision, monitoring and reporting.
FIRCO would contract the implementation of some of those activities-design of feasibility studies
and execution of works (see pan. 3.64) and technology transfer activities (see para. 3.38)-to
producer groups and private contractors.
3.62 The FIRCO project evaluation and selection mechanism is as follows. Investment projects
are proposed by producer organizations through the DDRs, who submit them to FIRCO after review.
All projects that meet FIRCO's eligibility criteria (see para. 3.20) pass through an initial screening
process at the DDR level, followed by a field visit by FIRCO staff before a full technical, financial
and economic evaluation is carried out. This is done either by FIRCO staff or by private consultants
contracted by FIRCO. Approval of the state working group, a technical committee of the state
Govemmentfs executive agencies, and the State Plamning Committee (COPLADE) is required before
the project agreement is signed. FIRCO's evaluation is done in accordance with the norms defined in
its Operational Rules: the latter was reviewed by the Bank at appraisal and found satisfactory (see
pam. 3.20 and Annex IE).
3.63   Financin. FIRCO's operational manual specifies that when FIRCO co-finances civil works
or technical assistance, the funds provided by FIRCO and thle producer organization are placed in a
special bank account that is managed jointly by a representative of FIRCO and the participating group
as governed by the agreement between the producer organization and FIRCO (see para. 3.22). State
Government funs are placed in a special accouz.t controlled by FIRCO, as governed by the
agreements between the state Government and FIRCO (see para. 3.55). FIRCO funds are provided to
producer organizations on a grant basis.
3.64 Design and execution of works. The design of individual works will be done with
professionally accepted standards in Mexico. Most of the design would be carried out by private
sector individuals and firms contracted by FIRCO. Private contractors would execute all works
finnced under the project with FIRCO's assistance (see para. 3.68 for procurement arrangeent).
3.65   Supervision. Once the technial, economic and environmental evaluation is done, FIRCO and
the produce organization jointly contract private sector firms to execute the necessary works, such as



-25 -
well-digging or canal excavation. FIRCO subsequently supervises the execution of the works, in the
case of rural investments, or the provision of the technology transfer services.
3.66  Po'jec Implementation Schedule. At appraisal, a ptoject implementation schedule was
defined for rural investments in the ten project states (Annex Vill). The agricultural technology
transfer component is atlocated tG the priority states and districts in proportion to the program of rural
investnents because all such-investments require technology transfer contracts (see para. 3.38).
3.67 Project Unit. A Project Unit has been created to oversee the operation and to report to the
Bank. It will report directly to the Director General.
3. Procurewent
3.68- Table 3 summarizes procurement arrangements. Civil works, consulting services, including
agricultural technology transfer, information technology equipment, and training, would be procured
under the proposed project. Civil works will consist of many small and dispersed contracts for
well-drilling, irrigation facilities, and soil conservation works that are not approptiate for international
competitive bidding (ICB). Therefore, most works would be procured under local shopping
procedures acceptable to the Bank; any civil works contracts expected to cost more than US$350,000
would be procured under local competitive bidding (LCB) and any exceeding US$10.0 million would
be procured under ICB. Prior review by the Bank would be required for all civil works contracts
larger than US$350,000 and for the first three contracts of less than US$350,000. Reasonable costs of
FIRCO supervision are included in the value of civil works contracts and would be procured directly
from FIRCO.
3.69  Works. Procurement methods for civil works were determined at appraisal by reviewing the
size distribution of works financed by FIRCO. One consideration determining the procurement
arrangements under the proposed project was FIRCO's present practice. For civil works executed by
contractors, FIRCO currently uses local shopping requiring at least five bids. For the first 10 months
of 1993, FIRCO participated in the financing of 423 works projects in 284 contracts having a total
value of US$15.48 million. The average works value was US$36,605 and the average contract size
was US$62,435. The largest contract was US$150,000 and the largest project was US$0.5 million.
Given the size distribution of works, most would be too small for LCB and would be procured by
FIRCO through local shopping. The possibility of grouping small works projects to make them large
enough for ISCB was considered. but was found to be infeasible because: (i) there are few works per
year in each DDR; (ii) many of the works are dissimilar; and (iii) overall GOM budget procedures,
outside the control of FIRCO, do not provide adequate funds in a timely manner to finance grouped
works.
3.70 For works executed by producer organizations using their own labor and materials provided
by FIRCO (convemos de mano de obra campesina), the procurement arrangements are as follows.
The labor contributed by producers is valued at local market wages; that value would not be
reimbursed either by FIRCO or from the Bank loan. The materials provided by FIRCO to the
investment would be procured under local shopping procedures acceptable to the Bank,
3.71   Goods. The Bank's standard bidding documents will be used for goods procured through
ICB. Goods to be procured under ICB include information technology equipment, associated
nmterials and specialized farm equipment for soil conservation validations and demonstrations, with
aii estimated total value of US$3.9 million. There are no vehicles in project costs. The Bank's prior
review of procuremen documents would be required for all ICB packages and for the first three
contra packages to be procwred under LCB.



6 -:
3.72   Consul, training, and studies. The Bank's "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants"
would govern all consultancies financed under the project, including agricultural extension services to
farmers. FIRCO's standard terms of reference for contracting agricultural extension, including
eligibility of firms and individuals, were reviewed by tie Bank and found satisfactory. The procedures
for contracting extension services involve close contact between FIRCO and the producer organization
to ensure that the opinion of the latter is considered. The procedures give appropriate weight to the.
cost of the service and to, the qualifications t,f the firms or individuals on the short list. Private
consulting firms or individuals providing ag-icultural technology transfer services are procured
following joint consultation between the producer organization and FIRCO. In some instances, finms
would be chosen, but, given the small size of most contracts, individuals are more likely to be
selected. Given this consultative form of procurement between FIRCO and producer organizations
and the dispersed nature of the contracts, it would be difficult to group most technology transfer
contracts to make them suitable for firms.
3.73   In accordance with Bank Operational Directive I  10 (Aninex C), prior review of all
consultant contracts with individuals would be required for contracts exceeding US$50,000 and for all
consultant contracts with firms exceeding US$100,000. Contracts below the respective prior review
thresholds would require only prior review of the terms of reference and post-review. To provide
more detailed post review of agricultural extension service arrangements with firms or individuals the
G;overnment agreed at negotiations to contract a consultant, on terms of reference agreed with the
Bank, to review the first 50 of those contracts procured under the project and to make necessary
modifications in the procurement of agricultural extension services as indicated by the consultant's
report (see para. 4.1(k)).
3.74   Recurrent costs. The loan would not finance recurrent costs. Producer organizations would
finance all incremental recurrent costs of the rural investment and agricultural technology transfer
components, and FIRCO would finance all incremental recurrent costs of the institutional development
and training component.
Table 3. Procurmsa Anragments
(US$miltion)
Categosy       IlCD     LCB          (tber-(   1  o46840&       TOTAL 1
__                            I       iB            i  ba              _        1I,
X Civil works                         8;1       72.6                        80.7
Cvl  worb                            (3.2)     (290)                      (32.2)
Goods and equipment         3.9                 23.1                        27.0
l  (3.1)  ____      (18.0)                     (21.1)
Technical Assstance
e~~~~~~ .                                                 .            2.8
Agricuhltual                                    24.1                         24.1
elension                                        1.                          (21
_  _on_ _ _ants                             _ _ _ _    __                   (0.0)
Project supervision                             13.5                        13.5
1 ievice                                        (10.*0                      (10.8)
Goverua mSecumnt costs                                          2.8          2.8 
P,ducer muriew com        -         -          -                   66       5
:__                            I       -J,
Now: Fges in pantesis are the amounts, including contingencies, expected to be financed by the Dan.
10 ChOwts- fthn1   mwia   and AuHi wot:  h. be -& Dro.&e  1hWDie   u    im tbtth* e n



-27 -
4. Disbursement and Audit
3.75   Disbursements would take place over the five project years (Annex i1) in accordance with the
disbursement profile for agricultural projects in Mexico. The project completion date would be
December 31, 1998. The loan closing date would be June 30, 1999. Theborrower, NAFIN, would
establish a Special Account (SA) in the Banco de Mexico, with an initial deposit of US$5.5 million,
equal to about four months' estimated disbursements, under established procedures between the -Bank
and the (OM. As a condition of effectiveness, the Borrower and the Guarantor would sign an
agreement acceptable to the Bank for the transfer of the loan proceeds (see para. 4.2(a)).
Disbursements against goods contracts below the US$350,000 limit for prior review would be made
on the basis of statements of expenditure (SOEs). Disbursements against civil works contracts below
US$350,000 would be made on the basis of SOEs. Disbursements for consultants contracts with
individuals below the prior review threshold of US$50,000 would be made on the basis of SOEs;
disbursements for consultants contracts with firms below the prior review threshold of US$100,000
would also be made on the basis of SOEs. Disbursements against contracts for goods and civil works
above the respective prior eview limits would be made against full documentation submitted to the
Bank.
3.76   FIRCO will maintain separate central accounts in respect of all project expenditures. The
state agencies of FIRCO would also maintain separate accounts for project expenditures incurred by
them. All accounts would be subject to FIRCO's internal audit: they would adequately reflect
expenditures made in respect of the project, in accordance with sound accounting practices acceptable
to the Bank, as is done with similarly decentralized projects receiving Bank support (e.g., IDSP).
Financial documents in support of disbursement requests would be reviewed by FIUCO and NAFIN
before submission to the Bank. A certified copy of the project audit, to be done by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank and in accordance with the March 1982 Bank 'Guidelines for
Financial Reporting and Auditing of Projects Financed by the World Bank," would be submitted to
the Bank not more than six months after the completion of each project year. The audit report will
include a separate opinion by the auditor on disbursements against certified statements of expenditures
(SOEs). All original, supporting documentation of SOEs would be made available to Bank
supervision missions. At negotiations, the Government agreed to have the project accounts audited
using procedures acceptable to the Bank in line with the provisions of the November 1991 audit
agreement with SECOGEF (see para. 4.1(1)).
5. Project Monitoring
3.77   The cost estimates in Annex I, the target states in Annex V, and the implementation
indicators and implementation schedule in Annex VIII were agreed at negotiations as the basis of
project implementation. There would be two annual Bank supervision missions. The first would be
soon after receiving the first semiannual report to review progress in the previous year. The second
supervision would take place no later than October 31 of each year when the following year's budget
is in preparation. The initial supervision would focus on commitment of state governments and
producer organizations to the project, the adequacy of the implementation plans in each target area
and contracting of qualified firns for the agricultural technology transfer component. Annex IX lists
the proposed supervision plan.
3.78  Impletalon indicators. Implementation indicators include targeting of the project to
DDRs severely affected by lower corn prices, construction of civil works, numbers of technology
transfer activities financed, numbers of farmers participating in technology transfer sub-projects,
numbers of staff trained, numbers of field validations and demonstrations, number of soil
r-ntevation activities. financial contributions of producers and state governments and overall budget.



- 28 -
Such information will be available from project reports and from other sources available to Bank
supervision missions, such as field visits. Technical assistance in monitoring and evaluation, to be
provided under the institutional development and training component of the project, would deepen
FIRCO's capacity to analyze that information. At negotiations, the Government agreed on indicators
to monitor project implementation (see Annex VIII and para. 4. 1(m)).
3.79   hnpact Study. It is not possible to construct a homogeneous set of impact indicators for this
project because of the variation in investment types and crops supported by the proposed operation.
Instead, it is necessary to devise a study that measures the overall ex-post rate of return to, and
distribution of benefits from, the project as the basic impact indicator. At negotiations, the
Government agreed on terms of reference of a study to determine if project objectives have been met,
and to estimate the socioeconomic and environmental impact of the project, including an ex-post
analysis of the return on physical investments and extension. This study will be part of the mid-term
review of the project (see para. 3.83).
3.80   The semiannual reports. At negotiations, the Government agreed to produce satisfactory
semiannual reports on all project activities in the previous six months no later than April 30 and
October 31. The reports would have a format and coverage acceptable to the Bank (see Annex VIII),
including presentation of project implementation indicators (see para. 4.1(o)) .
3.81   The annual budget and work plan. At negotiations, the Government agreed to present a
satisfactory budget and annual work plan, no later than October 31 of each year, describing all project
activities to be done in the subsequent year (see para. 4.1(o)).
3.82   The annual review. At negotiations, the Government agreed to hold an annual project
review no later than October 31 of each year. The annual review would cover project implementation
in the past year and analyze the proposed budget and work plan for the subsequent year with respect
to the project's implementation indicators (see Annex VIII) and agree on any necessary changes in
implementation (see pam 4.1(o)).
3.83   Project midterm review. A mid-term review (MIR) of the project will be held to evaluate
overall progress with project implementation, including targeting to DDRs most sL.verely affected by
lower corn prices, to measure impact, and to define measures to reorient the project as necessary.
The MTR would constitute the annual review for 1996 and examine implementation based on the
indicators in Annex VIII. The MTR also would examine the project's socioeconomic and
environmental impact based on the results of the study of preject socioeconomic and environmental
impact (see par. 3.79), and on other information such as Bank supervision reports. Data will include
all information about project costs and activities and observed or expected benefits from those
activities. It would analyze the technical assistance and soil conservation components with additional
data from state agencies, private extension firms and producer organizations. All data would be
completed for the first 30 months of project implementation. At negotiations, the Government
agreed: (a) on terms of reference for a midterm review of the project to be held no later than October
31, 1996; and (b) to make necessary changes in project implementation as recommended by the
midterm review (see pam. 4.1(p)).
F. Project Benefits
3.84   The expected benefits of the project are higher agricultural productivity where rainfed
agricultre is dominant and where heavily protected corn is the principal crop. The productivity
effects were measured with an economic rate of return analysis done at appraisal of a representative
sample of 33 existing FIRCO investments implemented during the period 1991 to 1993 (Annex VI).
The area covered by the sampled investments was 5,828 hectares and included 1,362 producers in 20



- 29 -
-states. ne sampled investments mostly involved the production of grains, fruits, vegetables, forages,
and livestock. The net present value (NPV) of the flow of net economic benefits was used as the
measre of rate of return. Of the 33 projects, 26 had a positive NPV at a real discount rate of 12
percent. The average NPV of the 26 profitable projects was US$7,000. Adequate strucures exist to
market the additional output produced from such investments so sharply falling prices, resulting from
additional market output, should not be a major problem affecting the return to investment.
3.85   Sensitivity analysis was done to identify risks arising from: (a) increases in investment,
operating, and maintenance costs; (b) a further decrease in the world price of corn; (c) a decrease in
crop yields; and (d) a higher discount rate. The corn price was chosen as a risk factor because corn
will remain iriportant, though obviously less so, for the foreseeable future, A 50 percent increase in
all input costs reduced the share of positive NPVs from 79 percent to 64 percent (21 of 33
investments). A 20 percent decrease in average crop yields reduced the share of positive NPVs from
79 percent to 64 percent (21 of 33 investments). A 20 percent decrease in the corn price reduced the
share of positive NPVs from 79 percent to 76 percent (25 of 33 projects). A worst case scenario-SO
percent -increase in input costs, 20 percent decrease in yields, and 20 percent decrease in corn
price-cut the share of investments with a positive NPV to 54 percent (18 of 33 projects). The above
sensitivity analysis was carried out by assuming a discount rate of 12 percent. A doubling in the
discount rate, induced further reductions in the NPV of the project. Under the high discount rate
scenarios, total NPV ranges from 44 percent to 22 percent of its base scenario value. In the worst
case scenario, with the higher discount rate, half of the projects are profitable indicating that FIRCO
has an adequate stock of potential investments from vihich to choose.
3.86 Poverty effects. The operation is anticipated to have positive effects on poverty as the project
states are among the poorest in Mexico. The percentages of state populations classed as poor and
extremely poor, where a higher ordinal ranking indicates more deprivation, are: Chiapas (poor, 1st;
extemely poor, 1st); Guanajuato (7,7); Guerrero (10,8); Hidalgo (8,5); Jalisco (18,13); Mexico
(22,18); Michoacan (13,17); Oaxaca (4,2); Puebla (6,6); and Veracruz (5,4). As those states are
already poor, their situation will worsen both absolutely and relatively during the move to world corn
prices. Moreover, the project's primary target farmers within poor states are those owning 10 or
fewer hectares of crop land. (Farmers with holdings of over 10 ha are likely to have sufficient
resources to be able to adjust to the new prices). In addition, civil works and the shift to more labor-
intensive crops will provide employment to poor landless laborers outside the target farmers
participating in the operation.
G. Enviroumental Aspects
3.87   FIRCO's project evaluation norms require all investments to respect existing environmental
protection criteria in Mexico (see Annex IV) as defined in an agreement for environmental screening
and eligibility between CNA and the Secretariat for Social Development (SEDESOL). These include a
total ban on deforestation; prior approval by the CNA for exploitation of groundwater and a complete
ban on groundwater use in exclusion zones (zonas de veda); approval of SARH's forestry department
for any forest exploitation activity; and approval of all projects by SEDESOL (Secretariat for Social
Development), which has overall national responsibility for environmental affairs. Assurances would
received during negotiations that the Government would apply environmental screening and eligibility
procedures under the project that are acceptable to the Bank (see para. 4. 1(q)).
3.88 The project has a "B" environmental rating because it would incur little or no environmental
cost. A separate environment component is not included. Environmental project issues are identified
from the environmental analyses in each investment and addressed as part of the operation. The
project would produce environme    benefilts from improved soil conseraion at the farm level via
beter investent, changes in cropping patterns and new cropping practices; increased water retention
dhrough water harvesting and vegetative barriers to reduce run-off; more efficient water use through



-30
reduced losses by lined distributors or pipes, and better operation and maintenance through producer
groups and strengthened technical assistance. All of the project area is in land that is now cultivated,
so no land clearing will be done under the project: some previously cleared and cultivated land may
be taken out of crop production and reforested or converted to pasture. The shift of the cropping
pater away from corn and beans is expected to reduce soH erosion because these crops are more
erosive than many alternatives. The project area includes no wetlands or wildiands.
3.89   Technical assistance provided under the project would strengthen FIRCO"s capacity to
evaluate environmental issues, to prepare and evaluate soil conservation investments and to monitor
and the environmental effects of investments (see para. 3.52). Training provided under tbe project -
would include courses for FIRCO staff and private extensionists about integrated pest management,
pesticide handling and legislation,and soil conservation practices. Private individuals and firns
seeking to provide technology transfer services under the project would be required to take courses in
soil and water conservation and pesticide management,The loan will not flnance pesticides for
production use by farmers and will only finance them as inputs for on-farm trials as part of the -
agriculural technology transfer component; the Bank's Operational Directive 4.50 on pesticides will
be applied as appropriate to al. pesticide use incurred under the project. At negotiations, the
Government agreed to: (i) apply national standards and procedures for the utilization of pesticides in
connection with research and extension activities that are acceptable to the Bank; and (ii) require
tension agents contracted under the project to apply IPM techniques as part of all tcology
transfer activities involving significant additional use of pesticides (see para. 4.1(r)).
H. Project Risks
3.90   The proposed project faces several theoretical risks. They are:
(a)    Lack of counter-part funding, causing a slowing in project implementation, has
sometimes been a serious problem in Bank assisted agriculture operations in Mexico.
The proposed operation has sought to reduce this risk by setting a satisfactory
first-year budget commitment as a condition of negotiations. Budget commitments in
subsequent years would be obtained during the annual project reviews, in line with the
project implementation schedule, and used to monitor project implementation (see
pars. 4.1(s) and Annex VI).
(b)    Lack of producer contributions, creating a shortage of funds to match FIRCO's
commitments, might also slow implementation. FIRCO cuts this risk by requiring
fnancial commitments from producers before subproject implementation, but it is
impossible to eliminate the risk that the producers are subsequently unable to provide
the necessary resources. FIRCO's experience to date has been that this does occur
from time to time, but that the overall risk is acceptable.
(c)    Lack of appropriate tecical pacwkger, especially for soil and water conservation
and crop diversification, might hinder the shift in the cropping pattern away from corn
and other crops that are now protected. The project has several features that reduce
this risk to acceptable levels. FIRCO is required to present a reseach plan for
diversification of activities in each project state, and of their supportng techaic
packages, by the end of the first year of implementation (see parm. 3.47). Continuous
review by FIRCO's technical staff would ensure that inappropriate packages are
quickdy modifed to meetactual requements. In addition, the farmers' .-use of priva
extension firms under the project will enforce those firms to be accountable to heir
clients.



-31 -
(d)    Failure of farmers to pay for private extension might hinder the supply of those
services. Privatizing extension services will reduce or eliminate this risk through the
maket mechanism and will engender competition among extensionists, which will
promote better quality services. The effect of competition on the quality- and
timeliness of extension services is expected to stimulate farmersm willingness to pay,
thus mitigating this risk.
(e)    Producer groups will not operate and maintain project investments adequately
thus cutting their technical efficiency and economic return over their useful lives.
- This should not be a serious risk because the ownership of project investments by
producer groups gives them full incentives for operation and maintenance since they
would not otherwise derive benefits from ownership. The project furdher addresses
this risk by clearly defining producer organization responsibilities for the subprojects
and by strengthening the producer groups. Moreover, the Gwoernment's clearly-stated
irrigation policy is to trasfer the management and the costs of irrigation to
participating producer organizations, so there is no lack of stated policy commitment
that might otherwise exacerbate the risk.
(f)    Ladck of funds on the part of the rural banks to supply credit to participating
farmers thereby impairing producers capacities to provide their share of project
funds. Financing needs for the first project year were discussed at appraisal and
satisfactory representations were received that the credit supply to meet producers'
additional needs would be forthcoming. Each year's funding needs are estimated in
annual program preparation and discussed with the banks in order to help ensure that
the anticipated needs and available resources correspond.
IV. AGREEMETS REACHED AND RECOMUDATION
A. Agreements Reacbed
4.1   The following agreements were reached at negotiations:
(a)    Eligible states (see para. 3.15). The Government agreed to a final list of eligible
states for the project (Annex V).
(b)    Egible investment tpes (see para. 3.19). The Government agreed to a final list of
eligible investment types to be financed under the proposed project.
(c)   Investnent cost-sharing by producers (see para. 3.20). The costs of investments
supported by the project would be shared in a percentage of not less than 15 percent
by producers.
(d)    Economic analysis of investmens (see para. 3.33). For subprojects in the rural
investmt component, the Government agreed to: (i) present the economic analysis to
the Bank in a format acceptable to the Bank; CiH) apply the NPV of the net economic
benefits to the subproject at international iput and output prices as the economic
reurn criterion; (iii) use a 12 percent real discount rate to estimate the NPV; and (IV)
accept only investments with a positive NPV in the rural investment component of the
project
(e)    Characteristis of producers (see para. 3.21). 'Me Govement agreed that: (i)
there would be no minimum frm size limit on participation in the project; (ii)



32
producers participating in irrigated crop activities would not own farms larger than 20
hectares (iii) projects in which any producer participating in irrigated crop activities
had more than 10 hectares would be subject to prior review by the Bank and the share
of such projects in the total of investments would be monitored as one of the-project
implementation indicators (see Annex VIII); (iv) the eligibility of producers
paticipating in livestock activities with respect to farm size would continue to be
determined by the DDR Technical Committees because of the great variation in
feasibility stocking rates among DDRs; (v) beneficiaries must be organized into
groups for operating and maning the investment and for obtaining technical
assistance; and (vi) beneficiaries must obtain technical assistance acceptable to
FIRCO.
(f)   lDivesification of actvities (see para. 3.47). The Government agreed that FIRCO
would be required to produce a plan of trials of innovative activities for each project
state by April 15, 1995.
(g)    Consultant terms of reference (see Par. 3.52). The Government agrtod to
satisfactory terms of reference for consultancies to be done under the institutional
development and training component.
(h)    Project management (see para. 3.58). The Government agreed to: (a) maintain in
FIRCO an organizational structure, finctions, and adequate staff, all satisfactory to
the Bank, to coordinate and supervise the implementation of the project; (b) promptly
infonn the Bank of any proposed change in the organizational structure or functions of
FIRCO; (c) continue to apply FIRCO's Operating Rules and not change those
Operating Rules without the consent of the Bank; (d) r. intain the Project Unit with
appropriate functions, structure and staff; and (e) subnut - 5 feasibility studies of the
first two investment projects to be financed in each state under the project for the
Bank's prior review and approval.
(i)    Role of state Goverments (see para. 3.55). The Government agreed: (i) that state
Governments would bear at least 20 percent of the total incremental costs for the
project's rural investment component; and (ii) that FIRCO and the state Governments
would sign annual agreements in a format agreed with the Bank governing project
implementation and financing in each state.
j)   -Agricultural technology trmder and agrem ts with producer organiztions and
choice of extension services (see paa. 3.36). The Government agreed to: (i)
standard terms of reference for agricultural technology transfer contracts; (Hi) maintain
its practice of signing agreements with producer organizations for all rural investments
financed under the project; and (iii) make express provision in those agreements to
show that producers have been adequately informed of their rights to freely choose
extension services under the project.
(k)    Procuremn1 t of agriculural aeteion (see para. 3.72).. The Government agreed
that FIRCO would contract a consultant on terms and conditions acceptable to the
Bank, to review the first 50 examples of agricutural extension contracs obtained
under the project and to make necessary modifications in the contracting of
agricultural extension services as indicated in the report of the consultant.
(I)    Audt (see para. 3.76). The Borrower and the Goverment agreed to have the
project accounts audited in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.



- 3 -
-(m)    m etaton indicato  (see pam. 3.78). The Govermnent agreed on a set of
indicators to assess progress in project implementation.
(n)   Impact study (see para. 3.79). The Government agreed on terms of teference for a
study of the socioeconomic and environmental impact of the project to be done as part
of the mid-term review of the proposed operation.
(o)    Semianul reports, work plan and budget, and review. The Government agreed
to: (a) furnish to the Bank satisfactory semiannual reports covering all project
activities of the previous six months no later than April 3Q and October 31 of each
year (see para. 3.80); (b) provide io the Bank a satisfactory annual work plan and
budget (see para. 3.81) no later than October 31 of each year; and (c) hold an annual
project review (see pOra. ?) nio later than October 31 of each -year to assess project
implementation, based on the implementation indicators in Table I of Annex VIHI;
and (d) to review and approve the amnua work plan and budget for the following
year.
(p)    Midterm review (see para. 3.83). The Government agreed to: (a) terms of reference
for a midterm review of the project to be held no later than October 31, 1996 to
assess project implementation and impact, based on the indicators in Tables 1 and 2 of
Annex V}Il, and on results of the impact study; and (b) make necessary changes in
project implementation as recommended by the midterm review.
(q)    Eavironmental screening and eligibility (see para. 3.87). The Government would
apply environmental screening and eligibility procedures acceptable to the Bank.
(r)    Pestidde managenent (see pam. 3.88). The Government agreed to: (i) apply
national standards and procedures for the utilization of pesticides that are acceptable to
the Bank; and (ii) require extension agents contracted under the project to apply IPM
techniques as part of all technology transfer activities involving significant additional
use of pesticides.
(s)    Project budget (see pam. 3.90(a)). The Government agreed to: (a) submit to its
Congress annual fiscal budgets for FIRCO that provide adequate resources to carry
out the agreed annual work plan; and (b) furnish to the Bank by April 30 of each year
satisfactory evidence of the approved budget.
4.2   The following would be a condition of efectiveness:
(a)    NAFIN and the Government have signed an agreement for transferring the loan
proceeds (see para. 3.75).
B. Recommendation
4.3    With these agreements and conditions, the project would be eligible for a Bank loan of US$85
million equivalent with a term of 15 years, including a five-year grace period.



--35-
ANNXFSM
Ahnx I                  Project Costs
Amex II                 Estimated Schedule of Bank Disbursements
Annex MII               Orgnzaton and Role of Coodinaig Agency aRO)
and Poject Unit
Annex IV                Environmental Issues
Annex.  V               Selection of Project States
Annex VI                Economic Analysis of Rual Investments and Soil Conservation
Measures
Annex VII               Technology Trmsfer and Soil Conservaton
Annex VM                Project Lknplementation Indicators, Impact Ibdicators and
Implementation Schedule
Annex IX                Project Supervision by the Bank
Annex X                 Related Documents and Data Available in the Poject Files



Annex I
Page 1 of 8
Rainfed Areas
Components Project Cost Summaz
(MexS MilLion)                        (US$ Million)
%    % Total                          %    % Total
Foteign   Bast                        Foreign   Base
Local Poriar  Total Exchange Costs  Local Poreige  Total Exchange Costs
Rural bwiestm                             209.7  159.7  369.4       43     65   67.7   51.5  119.2        43      65
AgrcUlural technology tasfer              150.1    2.4  152.5        2     27   48.4    0.8   49.2         2      27
Instittional D lopment and Training        25.6   18.8   44.5       42      8    8.3    6.1   14.3        42       8
*1 BASELINE COSTS                         385.5  180.9  566.4       32    100  124.3   58.4  182.7        32    100
Phyl Contingncies                          38.5   18.1   56.6       32      10   12.4    5.8   18.3       32      10
PriccContingencics                        111.4   47.3  158.8       30     28   17.3    7.2   24.6        29      13
tal PROJECT COSTS                         535.4  246.4  781.8       32    138  154.1   71.4  225.6        32    123



Page 2 of 8
Rainfed Areas
Components by Finaciers
(US$ Million)
-                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~State                 Locali
World Batik      GOM          Producers     Governments       Total Wor.  (Excl. Duties &
Amount   %   Amount   %   Amount   %   Amount   %    Amount   %    Exch. Taxes)  TaKes
'uMa investnent                           61.0   41.4   14.7   10.0   47.8   32.5   23.7   16.1  147.2   65.3   63.2   74.0    10.0
kgriculttwra technology tansfer           12.3   20.2    1.3    2.1   47.4   77.7         -      -   60.9   27.0    1.0  '9.9        0.0
sdtutional Development anid Training       11.7   67.3    5.7   32.7              -       -      -   17.4    7.7    7.3    8.2        2.0
It Disbursement                           85.0   37.7   21.7    9.6   95.2   42.2   23.7   10.5  225.6  100.0   71.4  142.1    12.0



Annex I
Page 3 of 8
Raifed An"as
Project Components by Year- Base Costs
Base Cost &MexS Million)                   Base Cost (US$ Million)
1994   1995   1996   1997   1998   Total  1994   1995   1996   1997   1998   Totai
al m    lestwet                           47.8   72.3   78.1   83.0   88.2  369.4   15.4   23.3   25.2:  26.8   28.5  119.2
icuktnol tehnology tanfkr                 24.3   27.8   30.8   33.5   36.1  152.5    7.8    9.0    9.9   10.8   I1.6   49.2
ituionalDcvdopnentandTrainng              11.1   11.1    9.9    6.2    6.2   44.5    3.6    3.6    3.2    2.0    2.0   14.3
3AS3LINS WOSTS                            83.2  111.1  l18.8  122.7  130.5  566.4   26.8   35.8   38.3   39.6   42.1  182.7
SiWa Contingtncies                         8.3   11.1   11.9   12.3   13.1   56.6    2.7    3.6    3.8    4.0    4.2   18.3
e Contingcpci! 
Wation
Loc81                                     3.5   10.9   20.0   30.7   44.2  109.2    1.1    3.5    6.4    9.9   14.2   35.2
ForEig                                    1.4    3.3    4.7    5.8    7.2   22.4    0.5    1.1    1.5    1.9    2.3    7.2
ubtotll flation                            4.9   14.3   24.7   36.4   51.4  131.6    1.6    4.6    8.0.  11.8   16.6   42.5
eva1uation                                   -    2.6    5.4    8.0   11.3   27.2       -   -1.3   -3.1   -5.3  -4.2  -17.9
total Price Contingencies                  4.9   16.8   30.0   44.4   62.6  158.8    1.6   3.3    4.9    6.4    8.4   24.6
PROJEC1.COSTS                             96.4  139.1  160.7  179.3  206.2  781.8   31.1   42.7   47.0.  50.0   54.7  225.6
5.7    8.4    8.9    8.9    9.6   41.4    1.8    2.6    2.6    2.5    2.6    12.0
cign Exchange                             32.4   49.3   52.6   53.7   58.4  246.4   10.5   15.1   15.4   15.0   15.5   71.4



Annex I
Pfp4of%
Rainfd Aaus
Pnojct Componens by Year - Totals Including Cootingenciac
Totals cncludin Contmncles (MtxS Million)   Totas IncudLng ConftinMncci (lSS Million)
1994   1995   1996   1997   1998   Total  1994   1995   1996   1997   1998   Total
ha ioestment                            55.3   90.3  105.5  121.3  139.3  511.7   17.8   27.7   30.9   33A8   37.0  147.2
piutenhnology tansfer                   28.3   34.9   41.8   49.0   57.2  211.2    9.1   10.7   12.2   13,7   t5.2   60.9
stitutional Delopment and Tiing         12.8   13.9   13.4    9.0    9.8   58.9    4.1    4.3    3.9    2.5    2.6   17.4
IPROJECT COSTS                          96.4  139.1  160.7  179.3  206.2  781.8   31.1   42.7   47.0   S0.0   $4,7  225.6



Aiumi, I
Page 5-of 8
Rainfed Area
Expenditure Accounts by Yean - Base Coats
Base Cost (MexS MilonS     Foreign Exchange      Base Cost (USS Million)    Pornign Exchange
1994  1995  1996  1997  1998  Total   %  Amoun 1994  1995  1996  1997  1998  Total  %  Amount
bwtmi Costs'-
Civil wor( (Wefs)                6.1  12.1  12.1  12.1  12.1  54.6  50.3  27.4  2.0   3.9   3.9   3.9   3.9  17.6  50.3   8.9
Ciilworks(Iigation&dranage)    11.4  19.1  19.1  19.1  19.1  87.7  75.2  65.9   3.7   6.2   6.2   6.2   6.2  28.3  75.2  21.3
Civil works (Soil conservation)  8.9   8.9   8.9   8.9   8.9  44.7  25.2  11.3  2.9   2.9   2.9   2.9   2.9  14.4  25.2-  3.6
CiVilwors(Other)                 3.3   3.3   3.3   3.3   3.3  16.3  62.3  10.2   1.1   1.1   1.1   1.1   1.1   5.3  62.3   3.3
rochical supervision            2.9   6.7   7.8   8.0   8.2  33.6  24.6   8.3   0.9   2.2   2.5   2,6   2.6  10.9  24.6   2.7
.griscuural Technology Transkr  13.6  13.6  13.6  13.6  13.2  67.8   2.7   1.8  4.4   4.4   4.4   4.4   4.3  21.9   2.7   0.6
kg Conservation Practices       7.6   7.6   7.6   7.6   7.6  38.1      -      -   2.5   2.5   2.5   2.5   2.5  12.3
3oods & Equipment               13.7  16.0  14.8  12.0  12.2  68.6  62.5  42.9  4.4   5.1  4.8   3.9   3.9  22.1  62.5  13.8
:onsultant services             1.4   1.4   1.4      -   -    4.1  25.2   1.0  0.4   0.4  0.4         -     -   1.3  25.2   0.3
astitutional Development & Training   4.8   4.8   4.8   4.8   4.8  23.9  44.7  10.7  1.5   1.5   1.5   1.5   1.5   7.7  44.7   3.4
Wo4ucers,nvestatents            1.8   2.2   2.2   2.2, 2.2  10.5   7.4   0.8  0.6   0.7   0.7   0.7   0.7   3.4   7.4   0.2
a Invetment Costs              75.6  95.7  95.5. 91.6  91.6 449.9  40.1  180.2  24.4  30.9  30.8  29.5  29.6 145.1  40.1  58.1
Recurrent Costs
roducrs' recurt oosts           6.3  14.1  21.9  29.7  37.5 109.5      -         2.0   4.5   7.1   9.6  12.1  35.3      -
qRCOrecuret costs               1.4   1.4   1.4   1.4   1.4   7.0  10.1   0.7   0.5  0.5   0.5   0.5   0.5   2.3  10.1   0.2
slRecurrent Costs               7.7  15.5  23.3  31.1  38.9 116.4   0.6   0.7   2.5   5.0   7.5  10.0  12.6  37.6   0.6   0.2
d BASELINE COSTS              83.2 111.1  118.8 122.7 130.5 566.4  31.9  180.9  26.8  35.8  38.3  39.6  42.1  182.7  31.9  58.4
bhysical Contingencies          8.3  11.1  11.9  12.3  13.1  56.6  31.9  18.1   2.7   3.6   3.8   4.0   4.2  18.3  31.9   5.8
WiMe Contigencies
Inlaion;
Local                        3.5  10.9  20.0  30.7  44.2 109.2      -     -   1.1  3.5   6.4   9.9  14.2  -35.2      -
Foreigia                     1.4   3.3   4.7   5.8   7.2  22.4 100.0  22.4   0.5   1.1   1.5   1.9   2.3   7.2 100.0  7.2
Subtotal lnflation             4.9  14.3  24.7  36.4  51.4 131.6  17.1  22.4   1.6   4.6   8.0  11.8  16.6  42.5  17.1   7.2
Devaluation                      -   2.6   5.4   8.0  11.3  27.2  91.6  24.9      -  -1.3  -3.1  -5.3  -8.2  -17.9     -     -
ubto  Price Contingncics       4.9  16.8  30.0  44.4  62.6 158.8  29.8  47.3   1.6  3.3   4.9   6.4   8.4  24.6  29.4   7.2
I PROJECT COSTS               96.4 139.1  160.7 179.3 206.2 781.8  31.5 246.4  31.1  42.7  47.0  50.0  54.7 225.6  31.7  71.4
axes                           5.7   8.4   8.9   8.9   9.6  41.4      -     -   1.8   2.6   2.6   2.5   2.6  12,0      -      -
)     Exchange                32A   49.3  52.6  53.7  58.4 246.4            -  10.5  15.1  15.4  15,0  15.5  71.4      -      -



Annex I
Page 6 of 8
Ratifed Ars
Expcndiure Accounts by Yea - Totals Including Contingencics
Totals !ncluding Contingencies (Mex$ Million)  Totals Including Contingencies (US$ MIllich)
1994   1995   1996   1997   1998   Total  1994   1995   1996   1997   1998   Total
Investmn Costs:
Zivil works (Wells)                      7.0   15.2   16.4   17.7   19.1   75.4    2.3    4.7    4.8    4.9    5.1   21.7
-ivil work (Irrigation & drainage)      13.2   23.8   25.7   27.8   30.0  120.4    4.3    7.3    7.5    7.7    8.0   34.8
^MLworks (Soil conservation)            10.4   11.2   12.1   13.1   14.1   60.8    3.3    3.4    3.5    3.6    3.7   17.7
Civi1works (Other)                       3.8    4.1    4.4    4.7    5.1   22.1    1.2    1.2    1.3    1.3    1.4    6.4
rechnial suprvision                      3.4    8.4   10.6   11.7   12.9   47.0    1.1    2.6    3.1    3.3    3.4   13.5
Agricltratl Technology Transfr          15.9   17.1   18.5   20.0   20.9   92.4    5.1    5.3    5.4    5.6    5.6   26.9
soil Consenvaion Practices               8.9    9.6   10.4   11.2   12.1   52.1    2.9    2.9    3.0    3.1    3,2   15.2
Goods & Equipmnt                        15.8   19.9   19.9   17.5   19.3   92.4    5.1    6.1    5.8    4.9    5.1   27.0
Consuhartscrvices                        1.6    1.7    1.9       -       -    5.1    0.5    0.5    0.5        -      -    1.6
[nstiutional Development & Training      5.5    6.0    6.5    7.0    7.6   32.5    1.8    1.8    1.9    1.9    2.0    9.5
Pmeducers.nvestnents                     2.1    2.7    2.9    3.2    3.5   14.4    0.7    0.8    0.9    0.9    0.9    4.2
ital Ivestmnnt Costs                    87.5  119.6  129.2  133.8  144.6  614.7   28.2   36.8   37.8   37.3   38.4  178.4
Recurren Costs
Producers' recurrent costs               7.3   17.7   29.7   43.5   59.4  157.6    2.4    5.4    8.7   12.1   15.8   44.4                            >,,
FIRCO reeurrctcosts                      1.6    1.8    1.9    2.0    2.2    9.5    0.5    0.5    0.6    0.6    0.6    2.862
,talRecurmcntCosts                       8.9   19.4   31.6   45.6   61.6  167,1    2.9    6.0    9.2   12.7   16.4   47.1
tal PROJECT COSTS                       96.4  139.1  160.7  179.3  206.2  781.8   31.1   42.7   47.0   50.0   54.7  225.6



AnnexI
Page 7 of 8
Rainfid Areas
lxpenditure Accounts by Components - Toals Including Contingencies
(US$ Million)
Agricultural  Institutioal
Rural   technology   Development
investment   transfer    and Training   Total
weantnt- Cosb
Civil wodcs (Wells)                          21.7            -            -   21.7
Civil works (Irgation & drainage)            34.8                         -   34.8
Civil works (Soil conscrvation)              17.7            -            -   17.7
Civil works (Other)                           6.4            -            -    6.4
Technical supervision                        13.5            -            -   13.5
Agricultul Technology Transfer                  -         26.9            -   26.9
Soil Consavation Practices                      -         15.2            -   15.2
Goods & Equipment                            23.1          0.3          3.6   27.0
Consu2tant services                                          -          1.6    1.6
Jntutional Development & Training               -            -          9.5    9.5
Pmoducers investments                         4.2            -            -    4.2
tal Investmcnt Costs                        121.4         42.4         14.7  178.4
Recurrent Costs
Preducess recurrant costs                    25.8         18.5            -   44.4
FIRCO recutent costs                            -            -          2.8    2.8
dal Recurrat Costs                           25.8         18.5          2.8   47.1
tal PROJECT COSTS                           147.2         60.9         17.4  225.6
Taxes                                        10.0         0.0           2.0   12.0
Forcign Exzhange                             63.2          1.0          7.3   71.4



;   A  rrx
Page g (ft a
Rainfed Aramu
;xpoditur Accounts by Coipotauie   - Bas" Costs
(USS Milion)
Agrioullur  Joasthutional       Physical
Ruwal    eclhnology  Dvelpmeat        Contincis
investment  transfer    and Training   Total    %   Amount
.swnat Costs
Civi works (Wels)                               17.6           -            -   17.6   10.0    1.8
Civil work (igation  dainage)                  28.3            -            -   28.3   10.0    2.8
Cti woks (So 0onservation)                      14.4           -            -   14.4   10.0    1.4
Cwilworb (Oher)                                  5.3           -                 5.3   10.0    0.5
Tetcnica supvison                               10.9           -            -   10.9   10.0    1.1
AgrivAural Techagy Transfcr                       -         21.9            -   21.9   10.0    2.2
Soil Comevaton Patices                            -         12.3            -   12.3   10.0    1.2
Goods a  s &uinm                                18.8         0.3          3.1   22.1   10.0    2.2
Cosisukant icnficcs                               -            -          1.3    1.3   10.0    0.1
Cuonal Dvepsent & Training                        -            -          7.7    7.7   10.0    0.8
Pmducers htments                                3.4            -            -    3.4   10.0    0.3
ToI.1Investmat Costs                             98.6        34.4          12.1  145.1   10.0   14.5
n. Rscnrm  cosea
Produces' recuamt costs                        20.5         14.8            -   35.3   10.0    3.5
FIRCO roc cot                                     -            -          2.3    2.3.   10.0    0.2
Tota Recurret Costs                              20.5         14.8          2.3   37.6   10.0    3.8
rotl BASELfNP. COSTS                             119.2        49.2         14.3  182.7   10.0   18.3
Physica Contngencie                             11.9         4.9          1.4   18.3       -      -
Lcal;                                       19.5        13.8          1.9   35.2
Foreign                                      6.5         0.1          0.6    7.2       -
Subtotalnflaton                              26.0         13.9          2.5   42.5       -
DevluatIo                                    -9.9         -7.1    4     0.9  -17.9       -      -
Subtdoal Price Cont.neie                       16.1         6.8           1.6   24.6    9.1    2.2
Toal PRIOECT COSTS                               147.2        60.9         17.4  225.6    9.1   20.5
TAxM                                            10.0         0.0          2.0   12.0    9.1    1.1
ForeIgn Uzebange                               63.2          1.0          7.3   71.4    9.1    6.5



44-
Annex l
Page I of I
MEXCO
RAINFED AREAS D1EVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Bank Disbursements
(VS$ million)
Bank Fscal       Semester        D Disbursed      Cumulative Disbursement          Loan  .
Year          Ending           During                           .              Balance
__        __  _  Semester _         Amount          % of Total
1995       Decsember 94"               15              15              18              70
June 95                     8               23              27              62
1996       December 95                 8               31              36              54
June 96                     8               39              46              46
1997       December 96                 8               47              55              38
June 97                     8               55              65              30
1998       December 97                 8               63              74              22
June 98                     8               71              84              14
1999       December 98                 8               79              93               6
June99                      6               85             100               0
a/     Includes initial deposit of US$5.5 million in the Special Account
and retroactive financing of up to US$8.5 million for
eligible expenditure incurred after November 3, 1993.



-45-
ANNEXIM
Page Iot 8
MEICO
RAINFED AREAS DEVELOPMENI PROJECT
ORGANIZATION AND ROLE OF COORDINATING
AGENCY  fRCO) AND PROJECT UNIl
1.    The Fideicomiso de Riesgo Compartido  (FIRCO) was formed in 1981 by presidential decree.
In 1989, FIRCO was merged with the Trust Fund for Rural Infrastructure (FOIR) and the General
Directorate of Rural Infrastructure of SARH in an effort to improve the response to producers' needs and
to cut stffing by eliminating overlapping functions.
2.    FIRCO's objective is to promote increases in production and productivity of crops, livestock and
forestry in underdeveloped areas with productive potential. Areas with "productive potential" ae defined
on the basis of agronomic and economic studies of agriculture. The poorest and most marginal areas of
Mexican agriculture, as defined in such studies, are excluded because the rate of return is typically too
low to justify new investment; those areas are assisted by the national anti-poverty program,
PRONASOL. The three main areas of FIRCO activity are in rural investments, technology transfer
(including agricultural extension, on-farm trials, soil conservation practices, and promoting producer
groups) and institutional development and training.
A. Organization
3     Legal status. FIRCO is a trust fimd governed by a Convenio de Fideicomiso and by a later
Convenio Modificatorio del Contrato Fiduciario del Fideicomiso. FIRCO is present in all 31 sttes of
Mexico as well as the Federal District and the Lagunera Region. There are 86 offices within 196 districts
of rural development. The Central Office is located in Mexico City. Minor modifications in FIRCOs
structure are occasionally made as overlapping and idle functions are eliminated in response to changing
requirements.
4.    FIRCO has recently undergone a major change in staffing. Personnel in 1988 totalled 5,000
employees. The total fell to 3000 in 1991, and about 1300 on January 1, 1993. Tbis reduction involved
the reorganization of FIRCO, absorbing the functions and responsibilities of the other two enti,
classification of objectives, preparation of operational policies and manuals, and a development of job
descriptions. Staff selection was based on a study of curriculum uitae, interviews and tests. Iwe
distribution among professions is as follows: agronomists (30%), veterinarians(animal scientists (1%),
civil engineers (18%), other engineers (3%), architects (2%), accountants (5%), administration (7%),
medium level technicians (15%), secretaries (13%), and others (6%). Approximately 12% of total staff,
many of which are heavily involved in field activities of supervision, monitoring, training, and evaluation,
are located in the central office. This is a desirable ratio as is that of adminision, support, and
technical staff (12%, 19%, and 69%, respectively). A typical state office has 46 staff with about
one-third being administrative and support and two-thirds being operational. FIRCO salaries are in line
with those of other SARH agencies. Staff at the sam  hierarical level receive te-sam  slaries wh
slight diffeences for years of service and post cost of living. TMere is no flexibility for diffareces in
remuwation based on merit; although this is an undesirable feature, it is a common feature of Mexien
nublic service.



46 -
ANqNEX 1f
Page 2 of 8
5.    Decentralization of FIRCO. FIRCO has decentralized its planning and operational operations.
Annual budget preparation originates at the sate level and utilization of the approved budget is Mnanaged
by the state agencies. Program.and project priority establishment, planning, evaluation (ex-ante and
ex-post) and implementation are the responsibility of state agency staff working in concert witi state and
municipal or district interinstitutional groups (see paras. 16 and 19).
6.    The FIRCO management is comitted to contned staff training. Personnel are required to
participate in training. Some training is conducted in-house, but the majority is done by other specialized
government agencies and private companies. The training program is prepared in advance as part of the
annual financial and operational programming activity. Up until now most of the training has been in
administration, computer use, civil works planning and supervision, secretarial skills and
accounting/auditing. Under the projed, increased emphasis will be placed on project evaluation (ex-ante
and ex-post) and agricultural production. In the latter case, trainees would include FIRCO and SARH
staff as well as private consultants to farmers. Highly specialized training in such areas as soil
conservation, women in development and agroindustry would be obtained through short courses, short
term consultants, and conferences. Additional training of public and private teclmicians as well as
producers in strengthening producer groups would be provided in the project.
B. Functions
7.    Rural investment. FIRCO co-finances rural investments in the form of grants jointly with
producers' organizations and state governments. The investment selection mechanism is:
(a)    producers' organizations propose investments to the DDR Technical Committees;
(b)   the DDR Technical Committees review the proposals and submit acceptable ones to
FIRCO;
(c)   the project proposals define the sources of financing from producers' organizations, state
governments, and FIRCO1; and
(d)   FIRCO reviews the proposals and accepts eligible ones.
8.    Tecnology generation and tranfer. FIRCO is not directly involved in technology generation,
which is the responsibility of INIFAP.  FIRCO does have an indirect role through various
interinstiuional bodies at the national, state, and district levels and in partial finaing of private
echnWal assistn  to producer groups. In order to assure that research priorities are established
according to the needs of agricultural producers, a national inteinsional committee for technology
transfer (aNfT) exists to allow input from various public agencies (of which FIRCO is one).
9.    FIRCO participates in -technology transf including on-farm validation and demonstration plots,
evaluadon of alternative commodities and production systems, recommendations for soil conservation,



- 47 -
ANNEX M
Page 3 of 8
water usage for irrigation, infrastructure and productive factor needs of livestock producers, input
acquisition, commodity marketing, producer group organizational strengthening, production mechanization
and credit authorization, among others. All activities are carried out in coordination with other public
agencies and additional private technical advisors contracted by producer groups and private sector
specialists if the need arises. More details on technology transfer activities are in Annex VIII.
10.   Producers' organizations are an important part of technology transfer activities supported by
FIRCO's resources. FIRCO requires that producers be organized in order to participate in rural
investment projects, including partial payment of contracted TA. To assure that such organization is
sustainable, FIRCO will assist production groups in strengtherring their organization. This will be
accomplished through specialized training of external technical assistants and, in a pilot operation, through
trining of group leaders.
C. Likages to other government agencies
It.   FIRCO has close coordination with other agencies of SARH and other Ministries (notably SHCP
and SEDESOL) operating in rural areas. At the central office level this coordination is primarily at the
planning level and includes the National Commission for Technology Transfer (CNITTI), which is
composed of various SARH agencies including INIFAP, Extension, and FIRCO. However, at the state
level this is a highly operational and functional coordination. At the state level there are several major
committees that bring these agencies together. These include the State Operational Group made up of
representatives for FIRCO, State Government Development Agency, SARH Extension and Rural
Development Districts, and BANRURAL. The Municipal Operational Group (or equivalent), where
producer representatves participate with the agencies included in the State operational groups, and the
District nerinstitutional Committees of Technology Transfer determine priorities in needs for technology
and programs for short, medium and long term activities in the generatiox and transfer of technology.
12.   The following are the principal formal contracts among the participants in FIRCO activities that
would be supported under the project:
(a)    FIRCO and state governments, to agree on co-financing commitments; this is the
Acuerdo de Coordinacion con el Gobierno Estatal, of which an example is in the project
files. These agreements are typically signed by the end of January of the year in which
the activities will take place;
(b)    FIRCO and INIFAP, in which FIRCO agrees to finance and INIFAP to contract and
supervise specialized technicians to carry out research validation activities;
(c)    FIRCO and DDRs (see para. 12.(b)), except that the DDR is the implementing agency
for demonstration plots;
(d)    FIRCO and producer groups, in which co-finacing and other shared responsibilities
(including use of FIRCO machinery and equipment)_ are- ad  fo  inrastructure
investmets, soil or water conservation and private technical assistance, and
(e)    Producer groups and private contractors, in which producer groups contract infastucture



48 _
ANNEX 
Page 4 of 8
or technical assistance utilizing producer and FIRCO provided funds. In the case of
technical assistance, producer financing increases from a minimum of 20% in year one
to 100% in year five. For civil works, producers typically finance 1030% of initial
investment costs; under the proposed project a minimum of 15% would be required.
FIRCO assists the producers in preparing project and bidding documents and contracts.
FIRCO or the SARH DDR provides supervision according to the type of investment.
13.   FIRCO signs various other agreements with state governments, producers' organizations, and
other entities that support activities not included in the proposed project. These include:
(a)    FIRCO and SARH at the state level, whereby FIRCO undertakes to construct buildings
and other infrastructure financed by SARH;
(b)    FIRCO and BANRURAL, in which FIRCO commits to provide funds for certain
activities (e.g., alternative crops, validation and demonstration plots). BANRURAL
manages lending and recovery from producers and reimburses FIRCO;
(c)    FIRCO, lending agencies, and producers' organizations, in which FIRCO guarantees
additional credit required for validation and demonstration plots, adopting alternative
production systems or implementing value added activties;
(d)   FIRCO with individual producers, except that the producer provides financing and
FIRCO guarantees no loss of income;
14.   Management of Funds. When FIRCO co-finances civil works or technical assistance, the funds
provided by FIRCO and the producers are placed by FIRCO and the producers in a special bank account
that is managed jointly by a representative of FIRCO and the participating group. State government funds
are placed in a special account controlled by FIRCO. Funds provided by FIRCO to INIFAP or DDR
are placed in special accounts managed by the latter implementing agencies.
D. Operating Rules
15.   Two documents describe FIRCO's operating mechanisms and rules: FIRCO, Mecanica Operativa,
and FIRCO, Reglas de Operacion. Copies have been placed in the project files. ne following
summarizes the Mecanica Operativa.
16.   Receipt of Project Proposal and Formulation of Projects. FIRCO requires that producers'
organizations send project proposals through the SARH hierarchy and that the producers" organizations
agree to sign a convenio (see pas. 12.(d) and 12.(e)) to implement the proposal. All FIRCO projects
must begim with a producers' initiative. The Technical Committee of the DDR reviews and approves the
proposal, based on established criteria for rural investment and technology transfer activities. The state
and regional agencies of FIRCO then analyze the project and, if it appears feasible, begin to prepare a
detailed project evaluation.
17.   Role ofBANRURAL. BANRURAL is one of the trustees of FIRCO. Its participation in FIRCO
progrms consists of providing credit to participating producers, recovering payments, and particinatinr



- 49 -
ANNEX m
Page 5 of 8
in ie rJDR to.hnical committees that review projects.
18.   Role of CNIT. T he National Interinstitutional Committee on Technology Transfer (CNfIT)
regulates FIRCO's activities in the area of technology validation and transfer. The CNIIT sets overall
policies, however, most of the actual planning and specific actions are carried out by CODEJIT and its
techiucal committees.
19.   Planning andBudgeting. -Once projects have been approved by the DDR Technical Committees,
they are reviewed by FIRCO's state Directorate and sent to the General Directorate. Upon approval by
the General Directorate, the project is submitted to the DDR Technical Committee and included in
FIRCl's general budget. SARH and BANRURAL are informed, and, if necessary, are allowed to make
appropriate adjustments.
20.   Coordinafion Mechanisms. FIRCO is responsible for signing agreements with all participating
entites in the project-producers' organizations, SARH, BANRURAL, and state and municipal
governments. An important feature of the agreement with producers' organizations is to specify their
agreement to the location, nature, cost of the projects and the resources which the producers'
organizations are committed to provide.
21.   Rural Investment. FIRCO provides material and financial resources for the realization of
investments. Its role consists of providing resources for.
(a)   studies through contract and force account, or directly to producers' organizations to
produce project feasibility studies;
(b)   works in collaboration with producers' organizations and state governments;
(c)    equipment and materials to producers' organizations for works;
(d)   technical assistance for works; and
(e)   studies of diversified production methods.
22.   Beniting produces. Benefiting producers are low income farmers-ejidatarios, communal
producers, colonists, small producers-who have secured use of their land through peaceful means. Their
land size must not exceed the average ejidal land in the locality or the size established as the maxumm
by FIRCO. FIRCO has established a maximum of 10 hectares total in the project area for crop
produ-ers; for livestock producers, the area is established based on average animal stocking rates in the
localit) Producers participating in rural investments must agree to bear a percentage of the costs of
investment, based on a study of those costs. They must also agree to an adequate form of organization
for the operation and main e of the investment.
23.   Bidding and Contcting.  Bidding and contracting in projects supported by FIRCO are
governed by the Mexican Law of Public Works (Ley de Obras Publicas). This permits direct contracting
for contracts up to an amount of Mex$90,000 (US$29,032 at appraisal), local shopping (3 bids) up to the
amount of Mex$810,000 (US$261,290 at appraisal) or local competkive bidding for greater amounts.
TI fhnr coantas with famerS (conrows de mano de obra campesina) must be signed only for specified



- 50 -
ANNEX.M
Page 6 of 8
works and then only with the producers' organizations benefiting from the works.
24.   Supervision of Projects. FIRCO supervises works and technical assistance from design through
completion, The supervision process is described in FIRCO, "Procedimiento de Supervision Tecnica".
It doos so with respect to the relevant national laws and regulations through field inspection of job sites
and interviews with local officials, contractors and producers. FIRCO can hire outside contractors to
assist with supervision and can receive special requests from outside agencies for supervision of special
aspects of individual projects.
25.   Transfer of works to benefiiaries. FIRCO formally transfers works to beneficiaries upon
completion. Before transfer, FIRCO begins to train producers in operation and maintenance of the
works. Producers form a conmmittee for this process.
E. Role of Project Unit
26.   The Project Unit will be chiefly responsible for coordinating project implernentation and reporting
to the Bank. Specifically, the PU will:
(a)    Support programming and budgeting of investments and actions supported under the
project; and
(b)   Inform the Borrower (NAFIN), the Bank, SCHP and FIRCO about the progress of the
project.
27.   The PU is based at the FIRCO headquarters and will support FIRCO state offices. Ihe PU will
have a Coordinator, with administrative and support staff, unit in the areas of Programming, Budgeting,
Evaluation, technical support services, and project coordination.
28.   The PU Coordinator manage the unit, including the coordination with the FIRCO state offices,
preparation of documents supporting the operation. He/she will also be responsible for continuous
strategic planning of the project, as follows.
(a)    Prepare a general program out of the components;
Q)    Establish a planning system;
(c)    Prepare the project budget, interacting with the corresponding FIRCO operating areas and
other institutions involved in the Subprojects;
(d)    Review bid and other procurement documentation.
29.   Other technical services will be provided by existing branches of FIRCO. These are:
(a)    Project implementaion within states;



- 51 -
ANNEX m
Page7 of8
(b)   intitutional development of producerse organizations within subprojects;
(c)    Training and communications within FIRCO;
(d)    Tzteraction with agencies involved in technology transfer and research;
(e)    Advise producers-organizations about contracting, services, and acquisitions;
(f)    Promote training for FIRCO staff participating in a subproject; and
(g)   Improve the formulation of subprojects.
30.   Monitoring and Evaluation. The PU would:
(a)    Coordinate with the consultant on project monitoring and evaluation;
(b)    Keep project data base;
(c)    Support state offices of FIRCO in monitoring and evaluating the project, in collaboration
with the specialized consultant in that area;
(d)    Facilitate interactions among institutions involved in the project.
(e)    Prepare the semiannual project reports.
31.   Semiannual Reports. The PU will coordinate the production of the semiannual project reports,
which will contain the information necessary to follow the project on a regular basis, and of the material
needed for the midterm review. These reports will emphasize meeting semiannual goals, as measured
by the implementation indicators and the other aspect related to the implementation and management
of the project. The reports wil serve the Bank as well as the Mexican Government, and will provide a
common frame of reference for analysis and decisions.



- 52 -
ANNEX HI
Page X of 8
32.   The report's summary of project status will describe Project implementation within the reference
period, commenting on the situation in each component and on the Project as a whole, indicating
advances as scheduled -and agreed withh the Bank, -as well as the Project's general impact to date. The
report will provide information on financial management. Questions and problems from prior reports
will b6 addressed, and new or remaining questions will be also discussed. Implementation indicators will
be provided with the format shown in Annex VIII, Table 1, as will status of compliance with legal
covenants. The outline of each semniannuai report will be:
1.    Executive Summary
2.    Project Status
- Implementation by component
Implemnentation indicators
Compliance with legal covenants
- Most important events since previous report
3.    Project Administration
- Monitoring and evaluation
- Coordination among involved institutions
4.    Financial reporting
- Disbursements
- Acquisition procedures
- Financial reports
- Project technical assistance
5.    Project Evaluation
- Problems and recommended corrective actions



53-
ANNEX IV
Page I of 2
MEXICO
RAINEED AREAS DEVELOPMENT PROJEC
ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS
1.  - Environmental protection in Mexico is governed by the Ley General del Equibro
Ecoldlogico y la Protecci6 del AmbIiente (LGEEPA), which was enacted in 1988. The Secretaria de
DeSoIlo -Social (SEDESOL) is responsible.for the enforcement of the law, which prescribes that all
inmestments, public or private, must obtain SEDESOL's approval before imnplementation. FIRCO's
project evaluation norms, as stated in its Regla Operahiw, require all investments to respect that and
other environmental legislation. The relevant norms for the project include approval of all projects by
SEDESOL; a total ban on deforestation; prior approval by the National Water Commission (CNA) for
exploitation of groundwater; and approval of SARH's forestry departnent for any forest exploitation.
2.    The approval process begins when the executing entity or individual submits an
Environmental Protection Report (Informe Prevenfvo Ambiental) outlining the potential Impacts of the
proposed activity. Depending on the severity of potential impacts, SEDESOL may require
preparation of an assessment of environmental impact study.
A. Enironmental screening and eligibility under the project
3.    The investments financed under the proposed project with possible adverse environmental
impact are exploitation of groundwater, through perforation of tubewells, and small-scale irrigation
schemes. Investments of those types supported by the project would fall under the arrangements for
environmental protection that have already been agreed by the Bank and the National Water
Commission (CNA) in the Irrigation and Drainage Sector Project (IDSP; Loan 3419-ME). CNA in its
turn has an agreement with SEDESOL on the type of environmental screening required for irrigation
projecs. The environmental screening process defines four groups of projects.
4.    Group 1: Subprojects in biosphere reserves are forbidden. No FIRCO subprojects fall in
biosphere reserves.
5.    Group 2: New subprojects and epansion of edsing systems. FIRCO projects that require
this type of screening are: (i) projects that include the perflration of tubewells; and (ii) irrigation
projects of more than 100 ha. A few FIRCO subprojects fall in the CNA "Group 2", and by law
require SEDESOL's explicit opinion. Most subprojects in this group require more detailed study,
either an Environmental Protection Report or an Environmentat Impact Study (Estdo de Impacto
Ambiental, which is usually prepared by consultants and passed to SEDESOL for its decision.
6.    Group 3: Subprojects for which, according to Mexican law, no enviro      assessnt
is required becaue they are too smal. Subprojects in this group include: (i) dams with a holding
capacity of less than 500,000 cubic meters; (ii) isolated water wells; (iii) irrigation areas of less than
100 ha; (iv) irrigation systems that draw less than 10% of the natWral replenishment capacity of the
natral water source on which they depend; and (v) rehabilitated systems for use of groundwater. For
such subprojectsI producers.prepare a Diagosis of Envronment Impact (Diagni6sdco de Inpaco
Ambintal) and the relevant authority (CNA/SEDESOU/SARH) decides whether the subproject should
prceed.



54 -
ANNEX IV
Page 2 of 2
7.    Virtually all FIRCO subprojects would fall under the "Group 3" environmental selecton
criteria. However, all projects that exploit groundwater, whether in Group 2 or Group 3, require
producers to obtain. the authorization of the CNA for extraction of the specified volume of water
before any agreement is made with FIRCO. Subprojects for groundwater extraction are forbidden in
exclusion zones defined by CNA (zonas de veda).
8.    Group 4: Subprojects for which construction of civil works- was initiated after enactment
of the EGEEPA but that have not received an envil ranking from SEDESOL. No
subprojects under the proposed operation would be in this group.
B. Enviromental Benefits of the Project
9.    Some of the actions supported under the proposed will produce environmental benefits. The
chief example is soil conservation measures that will reduce soil loss and nutrient runoft into water
sources, thus raising farm productivity and reducing the costs of siltation in waterways and reservoirs.
in some instances, measures such as gully control and reclamation by check dams, damaged land will
be restored to productive use'. A second example is technology transfer programs for crop
diversification. Shifts into new crops will partially replace maize and beans with more economically
attractive crops-fruit trees, pastures, and some horticultural crops-that reduce soil erosion and permit
greater recharge of groundwater. Technology transfer will also rationalize and reduce input use as an
economic measure to maintain the profitability of maize at import-parity; this will reduce the overuse
of fertilizer and pesticides that has occurred in a few areas of high maize production.
C. Other Environmental Actions under the Project
10.   The institutional development and training component would address environmental questions
under the proposed project by: (i) professional training-including training for staff as well as for
privately contracted extensionists and extension firms--in integrated pest management (IPM),
environmental valuation and mitigation techniques; and (ii) a long-term consultancy on environmental
questions that will review the adequacy, implantation, and effectiveness of the environmental criteria
used by FIRCO and means to strengthen FIRCO's capacity in treating environmental problems. The
staff training included in the project will, among other goals, increase the awareness and ability of
private and public technicians in a systems view rather than a disciplinary or commodity view of
agricultural production. These changes should make staff more effective in conserving resources
while improving agricultural production and in communicating those ideas to fiamers.
11.   Community and nongovernmental organization (NGO) participation in project design can be
effecive means of makig the project responsive to local environmntal concerns and of applying
local knowledge to enviromental problems. The project includes such participation by requiring all
beneficiaries to form producers organizations.
lf    Economic analysis of soil conservation measures, reported in Ane VI,
showed many to have economic rates of retum geater than the mini_m  12



-55-                                ANNEXV
Page 1 of I
NMCO
RAINFED AREAS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SELECON OF PROJECT- STATES
1.    The basic rule to target project investment was to select areas expected to be most severely
affected by shifting to import parity prices in maize. To select such areas, SARH data on the value of
output in each of the 192 DDRs in the country was used. The value of output from all crops was first
calculated (Attachment 1). The value from rainfed maize was then calculated and expressed as a
percentage of the total value of crop production.
2.    There are 92 DDRs having at least 50% of their crop income from rainfed maize. These are
defined as "most severely affected" districts. Ten states-Chiapas, Guanajuato, Guerrero, Hidalgo, Jalisco,
Mexico, Michoacan, Oaxaca, Puebla, and Veracruz with 82 DDRs in total-had 29 of the DDRs most
severely affected. These states were chosen as the main areas of the project. All DDRs in those 10 states
are eligible to receive project investments. Another 19 DDRs in those ten states had between 25 and 50
percent of their agricultural income from rainfed maize; these were defined as "moderately affected".
Another 34 DDRs in the 10 states have less than 25 percent of their agricultural income from rainfed
maize; 15 of those DDRs are in Michoacan and Veracruz, which are highly variable states where rainfed
maize is very important on aggregate and in some local areas, but not in others. Three of the remaining
34 districts are in Guanajuato state where the absolute importance of rainfed maize is made relatively less
consequential by the large areas under irrigation. Another five among the remaining 34 are in Hidalgo
state, where rainfed maize is absolutely important.
3.    The method is incomplete as it excludes farm income from livestock, forestry, and remittances
ftom emigrants because such detailed data are not available at the DDR level. However, we know that
the 10 states are among the poorest in Mexico even when all sources of income are counted. Their
rankings on indices of percentages of state populations classed as poor and extremely poor, where a
higher ordinal ranking indicates more deprivation, are: Chiapas (poor, lst; extremely poor, Ist);
Guanajuato (7,7); Guerrero (10,8); Hidalgo (8,5); Jalisco (18,13); Mexico (22,18); Michoacan (13,17);
Oa=aca (4,2); Puebla (6,6); and Veracr  (5,4).



ANNEX V
Attachrent I
Page I of 3
LIST OF DDRS IN THE 10 PROJECT STATES
AND SOME OF THER CHARACTERISTICS
AR cr-  s                       Mize                                          To"a s  Va
Slate                       Dislsict                 Hectares liarnvsed            i{ectaS lHastd           VaWe of Maime Omput       oftutput
WS"igat4    Rainfed        Tdal      irigated     Rainfed       1prigatbd    Ralofed     Agcultu
_(Mx S Million)
CHIAPAS          -  T. GutjCnCZ               10,517    230,369       240,886       1,561     180,340          1,260     147,931        22S,is7
San CludlSaaI            4.071     34,533        88,604        1.664      60,439          4S7        26,789        57,227
Com}tan                  3,256    125,153        128,409       3,060     111,992         3,331       88,988        96,622
Villaflores              1,144    138,706        139,850        966      116,199         1,487      132.775       i12,642
Pichuatco                4,745     75,598        80,343        3,941      29,280         1,663       15.286       133,894
P*akqum                 33,476     94,980       128,456       21,662      53,150        11,220       34,626       122,108
Motoianua                          6S,109        65,109                   34,257                     24,148        89,487
Tapachuol               15,387    176,552        191,939       4,637      47,685.        3,947       43,950       488,994
TonabA                   1,029      8,043         9,072         670        4,998          4B2         2,708          ,969 
OUANAJUATO           Dolora flidalgo         25,975    100,191        126,166       7,019      46,675         9,279       21,798        .75,W89
San lUi de La Paz       13,592     33,266        46,858        2,877      20,857         5,660        8,827        47,729
Loon                    63,830     86,077       149,907        9,644      52,164        17,675       15,976       222327
Celays                  42,635    100,072       142,707        8,737      73,373        14,450       32,772.      210,578
Comtazar               250,868    172,754       423,622       11,027      93,382        15,627       50,584       725,225
UERRERo             A       .oya .              100     85,355        85,455         too      86,298            9S       83,221         83,3
.LA Vivas                  419    142,263       142,682         419      143,577          3$6       113,215       113,601
Alamirsgno                 680     72,004        72,684         680       72,542          952        33,072         4,024
Chilpacingo                 50     77,042        77,092          50       77,081           48        71,088        71,135
Tlap                     1,250     41,033        42,283        1,250      41,146         1,7JO       32,826        34,576
Iguala                     850     86,106        86,956         850       86,568          954       77,495.        78,449
IIIDAI.OO            Huejuila                            62,109        62,109          -       41,936                     35,446        68,641
ffuichapan              11,907     54,057        65,964        5,981     31,053         10,847       12,890       lOt,"88
Zacualtipan              6,777     35,124        41,901        2,319      18,940         5,302       9,064         61,910
Mixqoiahuaba     '      80,854      12,385       93,239       34,461       5,181        76,388        1,836       277,172
P Wch                    7,837    108,841       116,678        5,160     28,826          6,449       10,029        76,655
_________________   Tadancingo            11,366     82,879        94,745        5,112     44,020          7,774       24,363       142,148



ANNEX V
Attachment I
Page 2 of 3
LLST OF DDRS IN THE 10 ROJECT STATES
AND SOME OF THEIR CHARACTERISTICS
AD crops                        maize                                        Toed
State                      liDastn                    Htares lHarested              Hec tas a ted          Ve of Maine Outz         oOutpu
Inigated   Rainfed        Totl       Iigated      Rainfed      Iigaed       Rain*d      AgXdcur
___________________                                                         _____________________    (M ex   $  M illioo)
.    1I0CO           Zapopan                  3,573    128,088       131,661       4,289     113,4S9         7,185      141,760       212,935
Lagos de Moreno         31,500    175,116      206,616       11,990      96,992       17,859       80,6S1       381,975
Ahm"c                   2,975    127,681        130,656         IS0     100,258          136      126,773        165,018
Tomatian                10,011     31,478        41,489       1,529      23,571         1,550      20908        139,103
Elchino                 11,146     50,704       61,850        4,140      41,066         1,807      29,526       ,64,602
.L4 Rarc,              41,118    169,931       211,049         646       38,649          732      471,429       328,422
Cd. Quznma              36,731    195,635      232,366        3,059     159,682        4,406      192,695       254,104
Colodau                  2,175     20,491       22,666        1,186      18,973        2,274       14,957        20,113.
MEXICO               Toluca                  20,833    147,477       168,310      20,372     134,224        29,620      133,750.       239
Zinapango               31,946     90,375       122,321      15,235      32,565       33,740       21,670       164,322
Toxcoco                 15,498     78,987        94,485       7,061      41,991        21,216      69,180        176,510
Tejupilco                2,763     51,991        54,754                  49,621                    43,054        98,538
Adaconwlco              42,547    123,569       166,116      41,734     104,350       53,19t       51,131       169,204
Coatope.                12,188     51,514       63,702        2,099      39,761        2,906       49,141       249,674
Valk de Bravo            7,316     70,289       77,605        2,471      66,747        2,183       45,924        134,077
MiCHOACAN            Coaslwyana               6,92      18,888        25,780         423      18,626          2O         6,019          6 300
Ag;uilda                 1,047     10,591        11,638        482       8,885           556        7,982        11,251
Lzaro Cardenas          4,443      10,063       14,506           1       9,0S9             1        3,959        39,567
Huacea                   2,986     20,512       23,498         478       11,146        1,003        1,022       . 12,721
Apazingan              53,665      12,358       66,023        3,496      5,454         2,105        3,119       208,221
Unsapan                 19,916     29,016       4,3,932          2      22,192             2       16,907       270,980
Zenaora                37,524      63,705       101,229       2,371     24,055         2,550       12,530       248,113
Sauapy                  15,753     28,626       44,379         400        9,725          647        4,500        40,936
La Piedad               83,543     80,051       163,594      16,161     44,551        23,972       28,662       262,073
Patzutro                17,690     37,161       54,851        1,080     32,409         1,360       30,722       183,72
mdotrlina              33,783      69,913       103,696      13,871     59,208        20,969       26,456       120,90?
Huaetano                5,712      41,751       47,463         740      36,570           464       16,457        39,079
Zitacuaro              46,963    102,511       149,474       29,387    100,11         29,389      85,985        22S,343



ANNEXV
Attachment I
Page3f3
LISr OF DDRS IN THE 10 fOJECT STATES
AND SOME OF THEIt CHARACERSTICS
AU craps                        Maiz
.I)istct                    Hctuiw  amietd              Hectai Harvtsd          ValeofMaleOuu           ofOudptut
.  igtd    Rsted          Toes       Iigted      Rsinfed       kptoed       Reaited    Agcblt
(Mex S Mlllion)
OAXACA             Mimcc                    13,839    111,014      124,923        9,518      84,136        13,892      42.742
Vafls Ce'alcs            8,366    132,502       140,868       6,128     116,105        9,900       66,706        113,561
Coo                        500    112,092       112,592        SOO       92,538          360       45,668        71,639
Id"m                    13,482     80,826       94,308       12,350      68,240        12,846      37,077        68,662
Cansd                    1,859     19,249       21,106         910       18,949         1,634      11,189         15,249
Slea Juaez                254      22,738       22,992         230       18,439          163       10,946        37,019
TUxaepe.                           53,681       53,681                   4S,950                    44,149        105,83S
k'UEBLA             uHiaucbinango             1,080     30,514        31594          777      26,634         1,491      23,35          36- 17
Zectlan                  5,279     46,429       51,708        4,631      33,752        8,332       20,074        41,8tO               v
TezIut                     470     66,589       67,059         280       61,380          576       57.759        66,740
LUbrc                    8,292    222,792      231,084        4,029     155,l02        2,523      138,424       309,895
c1o1a                   21,163    133,762       154,925      10,379     120,960        20,807     104,272       191,769
L do Matomom            14,217    116,022      130,239        8,968      79,935        14,470      30,717        111,876
Tecmchaco               26,001     97,181       123,182      15,854      65,923        33,552      37,940        161,867
Teltuac_n               14,819     36,417       S1,376        2,841     28,813         3,747        6,658        40,939
VERACRUZ             Royacocooda     1-4                38,130       38,314          146      29,386          348       24,S35        47,412
Tupn                               89,710       89,780                   44,846                    16,964       226,704
Mmz dc la Tom                     141,528       141,528                  37,769                    32,492       384,21S
Caatepec                 4,572    106,397       110,969        795       47,665         1,653      23,89        236,656
Fodin                             167,211      167,211                   33,307                    22,026       400,319
La Antpu                21,188     31,643       52,831         718       18,634         1,257      16,593       275,405
Vocamz                  13,330     38,373       52,203        2,878      28,343        4,540       13,671        76,703
Cd. Mlamn                         117,916       117,916                  10,632                     7,395       322,435
Sa Andme Tuxtd                    124,417      124,417                   69,478                    49,490       178,931
1aMpan    -                        74,740       74,740                   57,034                    40,447        75,836
La Choepas                         40,843       40,843                  41,252                     21,219        41,492
Pauco                   19,885     67,914       87,869        2,735  - 6,183           2,679       32327        137,792



ANNEX VI
Page I of 5
MEXICO
RAINFED AREAS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS OF RURAL INYVESTMENTS
AND SOIL CONSERVATION MEASURES
-   I. Introduct^on
1. T-is Anne evaluates the financial and economic costs of a sample of 34 prOectS implemented
during the period 1991-93 and supervised by FIRCO. Tne aea covered by the projects (after
imnplementatian) is 5,828 hectar and involves a total of 1,362 families. The area ranges from a minimun
of 20 hectares (state of San Luis Potosi) to a maximum of 1,383 becar  (state of Colima). The projects
cover 20 states and they mostly involve gris and vegetables. Most projects are related to improvements
in irigation. Antament I presents some sunmmry statistics of the projects by state, district, type of
project, crops grown, hectares m each crop after project implementation, total number of hectares in the
project, and numbers of famiies.
2.    The ecomic evaluation of the projects exmined is based on the foUowing four uncertainty
fictors: (A) increase in investment maintenance costs; (B) decline in the pnce of maize; (C) decline in crop
yield; and (D) higher disco= rae. Table I reports the respective base and uncertainty sceno values of
the four fatctors.
TABLE 1: Base and Scenario Values Under Four Uncertainty Factors
AP In                       riutPnce Index           1.0        1S5
i_____B             Maize Price (Mex$/rt)            420                  336
C                 Yield Tdex                    1.0                 0.8
D _ _            Discount Rate                 12%12%               24%.
3.    The first uncerinty factor assumes a 50% increase in the foUowing inputs: (i) wage rate; (ii) price
of eletricity; (iii) technical assistance costs; and (iv) operating and maintenance costs. That gives an
overal average of 50% e increase i total input costs - hence the value of 1.5. Increases in labor costs are
related to investments only and do not include the subsequent variable costs of production.
4.    The second uncertainty fiactor is the price of maiz. It is assumed that its price drops from
Mex$420ton to Mex$336/ton. Althugh this scenario nvolves pnce reducfion of only one crop, its
importn  can be gamged by coiderng that only five projects do not contain maize. Tlhe pnce of
MQO$420/ton is the current world pnce expressed in Mex$, properly adjusted by the market exchange rate
and transportation costs.
5.    The third uncertainty factor is yield. Three types of yield increases were reported in the surveyed
projects: (i) m    nreases i yield are taking place in the second period and remain constant tereafter, (ii)
increases in yield are takikg place in the three phases (usually second, fourth, and sixh penod); and (m)
stepwise mcrease in yield throughout the liftime of the project. The reduced yield scenaro assumes a
20% reduction in yield; as base yield we have used the projected yield. 'he reduced yield is assumed to
start in the second period and last throughout the lifetime of the project.
6.    Finally, the surveyed projects were evaluated by assuming a discount rate of 24% (twice the value
of 12% in the base scenaio).



-60-
ANNEX VI
Page 2 of 5
II. Sensitivity Analysis
7.    The sensitivity analysis is reported in Table 2, are based on the respective world prices
(Mex$420 and Mex$ 1,000). The first row reports the base scenario regarding the following four
measures: (i) The swu of the NPVs (Net Present Values) of all projects (column entiled Total NPV); (ii)
The per hectare NPV, i.e. NPV divided by the number of hectares covered by the specific project (column
entitled Per Hetae NP), (iii) The per family NPV, i.e. NPV divided by the number of beneficiaries
(column entitled Per Family NPV); (iv) The number of positive NPVs under each scenario (column entided
# of Positive NPVs). Finally, the last column gives the rato of the number of positive NPVs over total
number of projects examined (i.e., 33). In other words, this column gives the percentage of profitable
projects under different (and combinations of) scenarios. The NPV of the base scenario of the last column
is compared to the total NPV of the projects under the guarantee prices of maize and beans. Hence, 79% =
- 100(26/33)...    ......
8.    The first three entries of the base scenario row denote the respective measures of NPV which in
percentage terms are by defnition 100%. The figures reported in the subsequent rows denote the ratios of
the NPV value under the respective scenaio over the base NPV, expressed in percentage terms.
TABLE 2: Sensitivity Results for 33 Projects
-Scenaris      Total NPV      Per Hectare    PerFamily   #of Positive    percentof
_______                         NPV            NPV           NPVs       Positive NPVs
1. Base          100%           100%           100%            26           79%
2  A             89%             75%            78%            21           64%
3. B             97%             94%            94%            25           76%
4. C             66%             54%            53%            21           64%
5. AB            86%             69%            72%            21           64%
6. AC            56%             32%            34%            19           58%
7. BC            64%             49%            48%            21           64%
& ABC            54%             28%            29%            18           55%
9.               44%fo           37%fe          41%            26           790/%
10. DA           39%             27%h           31%            21           64%
11.DB            42%             35%            38%            23           700%
12. DC           27%             16%            19%            19           58%
13. DAB          37%             24%            29%            21           64%
14. DAC          22%              6%            10%/0          15           45%
15. DBC          26%             14%            17%            19           58%
16. DABC         21%              4%             7%e           14           42%
9.    A S%   crease in the aggregate input price index induces a reduction of 11% and 25% in
total and per hectare NPV; the number of profitable projects drops from 26 to 21, representing 64 % of
the total of 33 projects. A reduction in the price of maize from Mex$420 to Mex$336 induces only a
3% reduction in total NPV and makes only one additional project unprofitable. Finally, a 20%
reduction in the yield index induces a 34% and 46% reduction in total and per hectare NPV,
respectively. Ihis uncertainty factor has the greatest impact on NPV when compared to the other two
factors combined (row 4, 66% as opposed to row 5, 86%) for both 12% as well as 24% discount
10.   Sensivity analysis of the per hectare NPV gave very similar results with the analysis of the
per family NVP. However, both per hectare and per family NPVs gave consistently lower values



- 61-
ANNEX VI
Page 3 of 5
when compared to the total NPV. Using the world prices of maize and beans rather than the guarantee
ones, makes five projects non-profiTable Is the penultimate column indicates, It should be noted that
.total and per hectare NPVs would give the same result if total NPV had been divided by the total
number of hectares of all projects. The same applies for the per family NPWV.
It.   Changing the discount rate from 12% to 24% had a large effect on all three measures of NPV.
All measures of NPV are less than half when compared to their respective base scenario values. The
total NPV of the worst case scenario (i.e., 1DABC) is 22% of its base scenario value. On the other
hand, I5 out of 33 projects exhibited positive NPVs, thus indicating that a significant number of
projects would yield marginal profitability under this scenario. Finally, a note of concern is in order.
The three measures of NPVs involve in several instances negative values. Discounting negative net
benefits with- higher discount rate gives negative numbers which are lower in absolute values than
discounting them with lower discount rate; tius the true NPVs are underestimated. Therefore, one
may view the reductions in the measures of NPVs of scenarios D through DABC as an upper bound,
of the true NPVs.
12.   The ten figures (Chart 1) depict the percentage deviations of scenarios A, C, AB, AC, BC,
ABC (12%), and scenarios A, AC, BC, and ABC (24%) from the base scenario value for the per
hectare NPV, in descending order. The horizontal axis denotes the number of projects with positive
NPV under the scenario in question. A value of zero indicates the scenario value of the respective
project is the same as its base value counterpart (i.e., the underline change has no effect on NPV). A
value of 100 indicates that the NPV of the scenario value is zero. Values greater than 100 indicate that
the NPV under the respective scenario takes a negative value. Stated it otherwise, the figures depict
the per hectare NPV inverse cumulative density function (CDF) where the associated probability
distribution function gives the probability that the per hectare NPV of each project takes the value of
100%. Values greater than 100 (not reported here) are out of the probability range as one can view
negative NPVs as zero profit projecs. Therefore, the relevant range of the inverse CDF is from zero
to 100, while the rest can be truncated to 100.
13.   To illustrate, consider the following example. The Base-A (12%) figure gives the percentage
deviation of scenario A from -its base scenario counterpart for the 21 profitable projects (as reported in
row 2, Table 2). The projects have been ranked from the highest to lowest deviation. Ten projects
(12 through 21) exhibited no change under scenario A, in turn implying that the investment projects
did not involve technical assistance and operating and maintenance costs. In eleven projects (I through
11) the NPV declined but still remained positive.
14.   As expected under scenario C and its combinations with A,' B, and AB, no project exhibited
zero deviation from its base value as all projects are affeced by yield. Scenario B (price of maize) is
not depicted as it exhibited only a marginal effect on the NPV.
15.   The tables in the attachment present statistics of two projects in each of the following four
types of investments: (i) Grains, fruits and vegetables; (ii) Pasturer, grains, fruits and vegetables; (iii)
Tree crops; and (iv) Grains and legumes. Area, yield, per hectare value, and per hectare production
costs per crop are reported for both before as well as after the implementaton of the project. The last
row gives the total NPV for the project. Note that the without project net benefits are often negative.
That reflects the fact that world prices of maize and beans were used.



- 62 -
ANNEX VI
Page 4 of 5
Chart 1 - Sensitivity Analysis of Different Scenarios
100                                           lOQi                       B-C~~~~~~~~~00
1o'                 Base -A                                  80 I                      Base-C
60                          -   -   -                     i  60.
40                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~40~
0                                                            01~
1  3  5  7   9  11  13  1S  17 19 21                         1  3   5  7  9  11  13  15  17  19 21
loo                                                          100                     Base - AC
80                 Base-AB                                   80
20                                            I20j
0                                            f
1 3 5 7 9  11 13 15 17 19 21                                 1 3 5 7  9 11 3 15 17 19
100                                                           100
80                 Base - B                                                             _80
60                                           I               60
40                                                           40
20   _        ____201                                                   ____
1  3  5  7  9  11 13  15 17 19 21                            1   3   S   7   9   1a  13  15  17
100                                                        1100
so                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~80
60                                                           60Bae-D
40                BeDA40                                                       aeD
20 ______________j20~_____________
1  3  5  7    9 11    13 15 17 19    21                      1   3   5   7   9    11  13  15  17 19
1001                                                             1      3
80                                                             8
60-                                                            60
40              Base- DAC                                      40           Base - DABC
ZQ                                                             20
0                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
1    3    5    7    9    11   13   15                          1    3    5    7    9    11   13



-L 6 3.- 
ANNEX VI
Pgge 5 of 5
III- Economic Analysis of Soil Conservation Investments
16.   Further economic analysis was done of soil conservation measures that are commonly proposed
to Mexican farmers working under rairnfed conditions. These measures would be promoted under the
project depending on local conditions, such as soil type, crop, land slope, the presence or absence of
irrigation, and the judgment of farmers and extensionists about the prospect of success'. Because of
the inherent variability in local conditions, it is impossible to establish a definitive plan to promote
particular techniques to conserve soil. The analysis of conservation measures included 183 feasible
cases, defined as a combination of: (i) soil conservation measure--ie among 20 different works or
practices; (ii) crop-maize, beans, or sorghum; arnd (iii) -location.-one of 13 states in the tropical and
semiarid/highland areas of the country.
17.   Table 3 summarizes results of the economic analysis of the 183 cases. At a real discount rate of
12% (which would be the minimum allowed under the project), 69 cases are profitable2. The
combinations represented by the 69 cases-of crop, soil conservation measure, and location-occur with
sufficient frequency to provide a good technical and economic basis for extension advice to be widely
accepted under the project.
18.   The results in Table 3 underestimate the profitability and relevance of soil conservation. The
costs of conservation under field conditions would probably be lower than those used in the
calculations because farmers can supply labor when its opportunity cost is cheaper, a fact that the cost-
benefit calculations do not consider. Lower cost, and hence greater profitability, would permit wider
extension of soil conservation measures. Second, the profiTable 3ases are all calculated for crops-
maize, beans, and sorghum--that have low output values per hectare. As investments under the project
take place, the cropping pattern will gradually shift from lower to higher value crops. Because the
costs of soil conservation are nearly invariant with respect to crop grown, a shift to more valuable
crops raises the profitability of soil conservation measures and thereby promotes greater extension.
Table 3: NPV of Benefits to Soil Conservation Practices
at 12% Real Discount Rate (000 Mex$1ha)
PraciceE Tropical states                                    Highland/semiarid states
N      _o _il_age _                        n.a.                       76
Contour plowing                            n.a.                      200
Muldd                                      185                       275
N;imu  tilage                              n.a.                      836
Crop residue   nement                      33                         123
Sloped furrow                              n.a.                       90
Contour furrow                    .        54                         144
Project files, World Bank, Soil Conservation Sector Paper.
2     Onily the.55 cases with maize as the crop are shown in Table D.



- 64 -
ANNEX VII
Page 1 of 6
MEICO
RAHiFEN AREAS DEVELOPMEN PROJECT
TECHNOL4OGY TRANSFER AND SOIL CONSERVATION
1.    FIRCO is not directy involved in either the generation or transfer of technology, but does
finance technology transfer. FIRCO executes that role through pardcipation in various
interinstutional bodies at the national, state and district levels and though partal financing of
technical assistance (TA) to producer grups. The primary responsibility for technology generation in
Mexico rests with the National Institute for Crops, Livestock and Forestry Research  NIP). Ihe
National Interinstitutiona Committee for Technology Transfer (CNrITX ensures that research
priorities are established according to the needs of producers, for which purpose it receives input
from various national institutions, including FIRCO. The efficiency in establishment of research
priorities and implementation of research projects is, however, low due to the administrative and
financial difficulties of INIFAP.
2.    The problems confronting INIFAP are not immediately critical to the project, since there is
generally sufficient technology available from previous INIFAP work and other national and
international sources to meet the short and medium term needs of target producers. The research
information does, however, need validating and demonstrating at farm level. It is the work of the
State Interinstitutional Committes for Technology Transfer (CODEr1 to coordinate this process.
The CODElfTs include representatives, of State Government, SARH, INlFAP, FIRCO,
BANRURAL and producers (including the patronatos formed to support research). The CODEITTs
have a technical subcommittee that prepares proposals for discussion. Monitoring of the validation
and demonstration plan at the level of each district is carried out by the District Technical
Commite, which include institutions similar to the CODEIlT.
A. Technology Transfer
3.    FIRCO participates indirectly in various phases of technology transfer, including on-farm
validation and demonstration plots, evaluation of alternative commodities and production systems,
recommendations for soil conservation, water usage for irrigation, infrastructure and production
recommendations for livestock production, input acquisition, commodity marketing, strengthening the
organizaton of producer groups, mechanization of production and obtning credit. All of these
activities are carried out in coordination with other public agencies and private technical advisors
contracted by producer groups as well as by private technical specialists contracted by FIRCO if
necessary.
4. - Validation plots are conducted on farmers' fields undef INIPAP's responsibility principally to
inform technicians (public and private) about new technology. Demonstration plots are conducted by
technology transfer advisors (usually private) to inform farmers about new technology. SARH district
offices have overall responsibility for the demonstration plots panned by the CODErfTs. In some
cases FIRCO finances lNIFAP's participation in validation plots when INIFAP funs are unavailable;
in most demonstration plots, FIRCO participates in the financing of private technicians to direct the
demonstration. In addition, FIRCO provides a guarantee of shared risks to the producer hosting the
plot, to cover any income loss due to higher input costs or low productivity of the recommended
practice. FIRCO also assists the producer to obtain credit to cover the cost of inputs used in the
validation or demonstration.
5.    In general, FIRCO responds to approaches by groups of farmers, whether landowners,
ejidataros or comweros. Within the whole community, these grouDs will usuallv be a small suhst



--65---
ANNEX VIJ
Page 2 of 6
-:-.who sre united-by a common interest. Often the groups form specifically to attack the problem about
which FIRCO is approached, and had no previous existence. In general, it appears that working witi
specific groups instead of whole communities is wise. However, in the search for fnctionality, the
groups must not be made so small that cost per beneficiary is unduly high.
6.    FIRCO pays pan of the cost of private extension advisors in connection with its rural
infrastrucure projects. At present, it also operates as the executing agency for regional incentive.
programs for increased grain production, mostly for maize (the incentive programs are expected to
end in 1994 and would not anyway be supported by the project). FIRCO also supports technology
transfer programs that are not directly connected to rural infrastructure, for example, minmum tillage
maize production. Despite clear directives from top FIRCO management, some states still design
rural infrastructue projects without TA. In order to obtain the maximum benefit from infrastructure
projects, all those financed under the present project will include a TA component with the usual cost-
sharing arrangement between FRCO and producers.
7.    The Government of Mexico has sought to privatize some extension services as part of its
broad strategy of reducing the public sector's role in agriculture. In the context of the proposed
project, privatization has consisted of replacing public extension staff with private staff while
providing temporary public financing of private staff. Government's contribution towards the cost of
private technical assistance (TA) to farmers stat at 80% in year I (with a maximum of N$16,000
per advisor) and decreases 20% each year, until in year 5 producers must bear the entire cost of TA.
There have been some initial difficulties with this scheme. Payment by producers of their share has
sometmes proved difficult where there is neither an incentive payment from govermment nor an easily
saleable product. Thus, advisors in maize production projects are usually paid, but those in milk
production have sometimes been left short. Additionally, some advisors are not yet accustmed to the
idea that they must charge farmers and contmue to -egard themselves as the employees of the
government rather than of farmers. Despite these difficulties, the government is committed to the
scheme and it has worked in other parts of Mexican agriculture, for example in projects financed with
FIRA loans. One sign of success is that some  more proficient advisors have already arranged to
receive bonus payments from farmers based on performance.
8.    The CODEnITs will evolve from setting strategies for the distribution of high-yield plots to
setting strategies to encourage crop diversification (also livestock and forestry) activities by farmers.
They will discuss proposals for testig from the farmers and technicians on the committee. IThe
COEDlTIs will also will evolve from setting strategies for the distribution of high-yield plots to
setting strategies to encourage crop diversification (also livestock and foresty) activities by farmers.
They will discuss proposals for testing from the farmers and technicians on the committee. They
Lastly, the committees will monitor the farmer initiatives being taken in the state, for which the
information will be supplied by the technical committee and by producers' organizations.
9.    By their nature, producers' request for technical help on diversification will vary
considerably. The District Technical committees and CODErlT therefore need to be able to offer
technical advice (through SARH and INFAP specialist) and demonstrations that can be adapted to the
needs of each producer-group reque, rather than following a rigid package design.
10.   The project wfll plae emphasis on locating more validation and demonstration plots in purely
rainfed conditions, rather than on small-scale irrigation schemes within rainfed areas. Additionally a
number of present deficiencies in the practical maagmet of validation and demonstration plots are
itended to be cured through tining for private and public exteion advisors. In this area, training
would emphasize:
(a)    a clear understanding of farmers' present technology;



- 66 -
ANNEX VII
Page 3 of 6
(b)   the need for a fair farmers' check as part of the plot;
(c)    where possible, replication of varietal comparisons and other component comparisons
when these are included;
(d)    a clear separation of the effects of the components being measured; and
(e)   in the economic analysis of plot results use appropriate marginal rates of return.
11.   FIRCO's strategy includes the use of TA to consolidate production gains from infrastructure.
In practice, opportunities for TA are being missed in some states. Under the project, capital
investments are used as "leverage" to induce producers to consider new technology. For example,
because new irrigation schemes and reconditioning of old ones (e.g., canal relining) must be
accompanied by private extension under the project, producers will have additional incentives to
explore the alternatives for crop diversification and efficient water use. Another example is that
the construction of small dams under the project also includes private extension with the additional
requirement that producers plant vegetative cover before or immediately after dam construction to
prevent soil erosion in the dam catchment area.
12.   Payment for technical assistance. A parallel evolution will be required in producers'
attitudes to TA. At present, many accept paying for part of their TA because that is a condition of
PER and other incentive programs and because they can pay their share of TA costs from the
incentive they receive at the end of the season. There are, however, already positive signs in some
producer groups that they appreciate the value of TA, and will pay for it, even when no incentive is
paid. Additionally, some private advisors are experimenting successfully with systems in which they
receive an agreed part of the farmers' produce as payment.
13.   Selection of technical assistance by farmers. SARH maintains a register of qualified private
extension advisors; the requirements for registration are experience and successful completion of an
examination. In many states the private extension advisors are all ex-SARH personnel. Farmers are
frequently offered no choice among advisors and are often unaware that they have a choice. To
overcome this problem of potential inbreeding of TA, FIRCO would be required under the project to
inform producers that they have a choice among advisors.
14.   Management of groups. Group assistance to producers will be emphasized instead of the
present tendency to individual assistance, so as to increase the cover by each advisor and reduce costs
per producer. Advisors will assist producers to test their own solutions. Group methods will be used
for farmers with no access to irrigation, since their yields will generally be lower than under
irrigation and their unit costs for TA must therefore be kept low.
15.   Cost reduction. There are three primary routes to the cost reduction that will be promoted
by TA: group purchase of inputs to reduce unit costs to producers; more rational use of inputs, to
increase output per unit of input; and group sales of products so as to reduce t; participation of
middlemen and negotiate better prices.
16.   Diversification: a whole-farm approach. Most technology transfcr advisors will have to
become broad generalists rather than subject matter specialists. Groups of advisors with different
original specialties may tend to form in particular areas, so that they may give in-pth specialist
support to each other when necessary. Alternative, or in addition, specialists within INIFAP, and the
few remaining within SARH district offices, will provide the specialist support to individual advisors.



-        -- 67-
ANNEX VII
Page 4 of 6
17.   Excessive report writing. It appears that an excessive quantity of written reporting is still
required from the advisors in some states, including the signatures of farmers and several technical
supervisors. Some SARI! delegations require reports from advisors and appear to have tken too far
their duty of overseeing uality. Under the project, the reporting requiremnents for advisors will-be
reduced to the minimum necessary for FIRCO to ensure that they, have done the work to whose cost
FIRCO is. contributing. By the time producers are paying the full cost of TA, it is tk%y who will be
-the supervisors of the quality of private TA. - -
18.   Continued traini  for tehnicas. To enable private and public technicians to respond to
these challenges of the radical restructring of the extension services, practical trainng will be
provided to broaden advisors' knowledge and skills in the following: crop, livestock aid forestry
activities; farmer systems approaches t development; participatory diagnosis and identification of
solutions with farmers; resource management and soil conservation; commercialization of agricultural
products. The need for this type of training was acknowledged among private extension advisors, to
the ext  that many would already be prepared to pay part of the cost of their own training. The
proposed project would provide additional training to private advisors and to FIRCO staff.
B. Soil Conservation
19.   Soil erosion is a significant problem in many of the target states. Actions under the proiect
are important for conserving and managing soil and water resources and not just for maximizing
income of former maize producers. Effective low-cost soil conservation techniques exist, but are not
often used by producers because they lack information; other more costly, longer-term measures are
beyond the reach of most producers without partial financing from the project. Past experience with
producers in Mexico and elsewhere also demonstrates that the adoption of conservation practices and
the maintenance of soil conservation works by the community is greatly increase if it has a personal
investment in die works and practices and it can see near-term as well as long-tern benefits.
20.   Pracices. Practices for soil conservation are applicably by individual farmers and will be
promoted through group-oriented technology transfers financed by the project. Of course, these
actions too will be more effective when adopted by several neighboring farmers in a watershed.
Practices to be promoted by the project draw from the following list; contour ridging, strip cropping
and crop rotation to stabilize soil; use of cover crops, green manures or farmyard manure to manure
to increase soil organic mater; conservation tillage to stabilize soil and increase organic matter and
water retention; formation of terraces by strips of grass or trees on slopes; establishment of nurseries
to provide tree seedlings; pasture, tree crop or forest establishment on slopes; planting of trees as
windbreaks where there is wind erosion of soils; grass cover of water courses; liming to reduce soil
acidity and improve soil structure.
21.   Many practices (e.g.. strip cropping, greew manuring, conservation tillage) are readily
adoptable by even very small farmers, provided that they see the practices are profitable.
Communicating the utility of those practices is the role of technology transfer. Other practices
(terracing, establishment of trees or pastures) require a greater investment of time and cash and will
require a greater effort in technology transfer as wel perhaps a shared investment or risk guarantees
from FIRCO. Subsoiling requires powerful tractors and an implement that no small farmer has; it is
truly more a 'work' than a 'practicew, but can be effective in establishing or stabilizing vegetation on
barren slopes. Ling accts for a high proportion of FIRCO's presently-listed soil conservation
activities; the mission bas pointed out to FIRCO that although there are undoubtedly long-term
benefits to soil conservation, limng is an activity primarily directed to production and should not be
allowed under the project to substiute for soil conservation and reclamation of activities of greater
imnnet-



-68-
ANNEX VII
Page 5 of 6-
22.   Works The main types of works executed by FIRCO and to be continued under the project
are small dam construction to reduce erosion from flooding (usually the dams have as additional
products the provision of water for crop irrigation or cattle and the recharging of aquifers); superficial
structures (olias de agua, jagueyes. tinas degas) to increase water retention and reduce soil erosion
on the higher slopes; check darns (gaviones, presasfiltrantes) of various designs in local stone or
concrete for gully control and reclamation; and stone walls to stimulate terrace formation. These
works are most effective when executed as part of an integrated control program (works and
practices) for a watershed.
23.   Check dams are relatively cheap to build and have a high content of local labor, especially;
where stone is available locally. The effect in soil retention is often very dramatic, thus convincing
the community of the amount of soil being lost and making a good starting point for a conservation
program with fanner involvement. However, many check dams are needed to reclaim a small amount
of land. Stone terraces are more expensive to build, but improve a larger area;- however it is
debatable in many cases whether stone is necessary for terracing or whether vegetative barriers (see
para. 26) would be sufficient.
24.   Superficial structures and small dams usually require a high input in machinery use and are
expensive, but they are attractive to producers because they store water s well as conserving soil.
These expensive subprojects must be carefully designed so as to involve producers fully, rather than
presenting them with public work as a gift. FIRCO staff now require the community to plant
vegetative protection above and around the works before or immediately after the work.
25.   In some cases, soil conservation works and practices are necessary in conjunction with each
other, to achieve an improvement in resource management; in some others, improved practices along
may make a sufficient and much more cost-effective contribution. In this regard these guidelines
should be followed:
(a)    works should not be carried out first where the adoption of conservation practices
would be a more effective first step;
(b)   improved practices should be implemented alongside works. For example, finished
catchment dams (bordos) should have vegetative cover or forest to protect them from
siltation;
(c)    priority should be give to easily adaptable conservation practices for non-irrigable
rainfed areas; and
(d)   technical personnel should understand why farmers often do not adopt conservation
practices, particularly that they set a greater store by present production than by the
possibility of future production, given the socioeconomic climate in which they
operate.
26.   FIRCO should emphasize approaches to resource management that are based on community
interests and possibilities, analogous to the FIRCO approach used for other types of interventions.
However, because community participation in water conservation works and practices will almost
never be spontaneous, success depends on understanding-the attitudes and traditional practices of
individual communities to resource conservation; based on this, technicians will induce and assist
communities in developing their own plans for resource conservation, some of which would be
appropriate for FIRCO involvement, some of which would be executable by producers alone, and
some of which would rentirA- th- intprwvntinim nf ath- a--nim  A 1^'.  AA..V-.-. _. __ n  s



-669-
ANNEX VII
Page 6 of 6
water conservation, provided by the project, will assist FIRCO staff in the development of-such an
approach.
27.   The approach mnight also include the recruitment of new, idealistic agricultural graduates and
their posting to communities. The graduate would receive modest allowances and would have the
responsibility of understanding community farming practices and needs, especi aly as related to soil
conservation. Their information would provide the necessary insight for the correct design of a
sequence of actions acceptable to producers that is built into an integrated redesign of the fanning
system, including crops, animals and forests, in a way that also conserves or reclaims soil and water
resources. If found feasible in areas with moderate problems of soil loss, the posting of young
graduates to conununities could later be used in severely degraded areas that would otherwise be
abandoned for agricultural and forest production. The graduates trained under such an approach
would be a valuable cohort to staff the producer-oriented private TA services of the future.
28.   Cost sharing among FIRCO, State Governments and producers will be an important principle
in soil conservation, as it is in all subprojects. The contribution by producers will, however, be
carefully calculated so that it is high enough to encourage ownership and responsibility; but not so
high that producers see the investment as unattractive, given their near-term goals. FIRCO, private
advisors and graduates posted to communities will need to sound out producer opinions, community
by community, in order to make this calculation.



-70                      ~~~~~Annex VWI
Page 1 of 2
-- -M CO
RAINFED AREAS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT ITIPLEMENTATION AND IMPACT INDICATORS
AND IMPLEMETATION SChEDULE
Component/sub-        Units    1994    1995    1996    1997    1998    Total-
co__ponent 
Activity         _                            .         .    .___.._.       _
RURAL INVESTMENT                              _   _____
.    ,,, -                             :-                . -   -   .,- 
Small-scale irrigation
Tubewells projects         no.        37      74       74       74      74       333
Other irrigation and
drainage projects          no.        72      108     108      108     109      505
Area irrigated           ha.      4145    6217    6217    6217    6217    29013
Beneficiaries            no.       1568    2353    2353    2353    2353    10980
Soil & water conservation
works
Subprojects                no.       500     500      500     500      500     2500
Area                      ha.      11600   11600   11600   11600   11600    58000
Beneficiaries             no.       3000    3000    3000    3000    3000    15000
Livestock
Projects                   no.        24      24       24      24       24       120
Beneficiaries             no.       1141     354      354     356      355     2560
Share of farmers in
irrigated crop investments
with > 10 hectares       __%_          10       10      10       10      10        10
Share of project
investments in DDRs:
Severely affected by
lower corn prices          %         70       70      70       70      70        70
Moderately affected        %          20      20       20      20       20       20
Little affected           -_%         10      10       10       10      10        10
TECHNOLOGY
TRANSFER                                                                       .
Contracts                  no.       300     300      300     300      300     1500
No. of validation and
demonstration plots        no.      1065    1065    1065    1065   .1065       5325
Soil & water conservation
Practices                 ha,          0   12500   12500   12500   12500    50000
No. of beneficiaries      no.          0    3450    3450    3450    3450    13800



- 71 - .          -          ^ -    Annex VMI-
Page 2 of 2
:Componenttsub-       Units   1994    1995    1996    1997    998    Total
component -
Actiity                                                  -
INSTITUTIONAL
DEVELOPMENT AND
TRAINING                                --                   ^--
Long-term consultancies  months       36      36      36                       108
Staff Training
Courses                   no.       165     165     165      165     165      825
Participants              no.      3500  -3500    3500    3500   3500    17500
Feasibility Studies        no.       110     110      110     110    110       550
PROJECT
EXPENDITURES BY
COMPONENT AND
FINANCIER
RURAL IVESTMENT           US$
Federal Government       million     9.2    14.3    15.9    17.4   19.0       75.7
State Government                     2.9     4.5      5.0     5.4    6.0      23.7
Producers                            5.8     9.0    10.0    11.0   12.0       47.8
AGRICULTURAL              US$
TECHNOLOGY               million
TRANSFER
Federal Government                   2.0     2.4      2.8     2.8    3.1       13.6
State Governments                      0       0       0        0       0        0
Producers                            7.1     8.3      9.5    10.6   11.8      47.3
INSTITUTIONAL             US$
DEVELOPMENT              million
AND TRAINING
Federal Government                   4.1     4.3      3.9     2.7    2.6      17.4
State Governments
Producers..



- 72 -
ANNEX IX
Page 1 of 2
-MEICO
RAINEDI AREAS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT REPORTING
Table I
Supervision Plan
Supe| vson                      Activities                   |-       Sg           |   h
Mission
I      Training in Bank disbursement and reporting       Task Manager,         2 weeks
procedures. Discussions with state offices of FIRCO,   Disbursement Officer,
state govemnments, and state and district operational  Agriculture Specialist,
comminttees regarding components and implementation   M/E Specialist
program monitoring and evaluation methods.
2      Disbursements, procurement procedures, technical   Task Manager,        2 weeks
packages, staffing, proposed budget for following year.  Agriculturalist
Interinstitutiooal coordination.                  Irrigation Specialist
3      Adequacy and programmed use of approved budget.    Task Manager,        2 weeks
Implementafion of validation and demonstration plots.   Agriculturalist,
Adequacy of contracted technical assistance to   MWE Specialist
_______  producers. Disbursements. Project monitoring.
4      Trining program. Producer group strngtming.        Task Manager,        2 weeks
Tecbnology adoption and production impact. Program    Agriculturaist
l______  budget. Midterm review.
5      Soil conservation, water use, producer maintenace of  Task Manager,     2 weeks
irrigation systems.                               Agricultural Specialist,
Soil and Water
Conservation Specialist
6      Producer group activities related to community efforts.  Agriculturalist with  2 weeks
Budget for following year. Livestock related technology  experience in producer
and implementation.                               group funetions and
l________                                                      livestock production
7      Training progam. Project monitoring and evaluation.   Task Manager,     2 weeks
Availability of technical packages. Diversification of    Monitoring and
on-farm production. Identification of possible second-   evaluation,
l______  stage operation.                                      Agriculturalist       ,_      .
a      Project impact at farm level. Evaluation deficiencies.    Task Mnger    2 weeks
Budget programming.
9      Discussion of project completion report, establishineat  Task Manager   3 days
of responsibility and processing procedures.
10      Review of completion rport. Discussion of final   Task Mana             3 days
disbursements and loan closing.



- 73 -
ANNEX IX
Page 2 of 2
MEICO
RAINIEID AREAS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Reporiing
List of Tables in Semi-annual Reporte
I.    Report of Implementation Indicators; I report for. each project state
with indicators as shown in Annex VII.
2.    Report of Expenditure Indicators. I report for each project state with indicators as shown in
Annex VIII.
3.    Status of legal covenants.
See Annex 3 for format for semi-annual reports.



_ 74 -
Annex X
Page 1 of 2
MFXICO
RAINFED AREAS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
REIATED DOCUMtS AVAILABLE I THE PROJECT FELES
1 * -FIRCO. ConvenioModific o al Contrato de Fidoicomiso de
Riesgo Compartido.
2.    FIRCO. Presupuesto, 1993-97: Programa de Desarmllo de Areas
Temporaes.
3.    FIRCO. Progra de Fomento de Conservacion de Suelo.
4.    FIRCO. Antecedentes, Programas, y Acciones, 1989-1992.
5.    FIRCO. Ejemplos de Contratos de Asistencia Tecnica Privados y
Convenios de Concertacion FIRCO-Productores.
6.    FIRCO. Manual de Ornizacion General.
7.    PIRCO. Estructura Occupacional del FIRCO.
8.    FIRCO. Proyecto de Desarrollo Intregl.
9.    FRCO. Reglas de Operacion: Normatividad Operativa.
10.   FIRCO. Programa de Capacitacion 1993.
11. PIRCO. Antecedentes, Programas, y Acciones del FIRCO, 1989-94.
12.   FIRCO. Programa Trianual de Iversiones 1991-93.
13.   FIRCO. Perfd de Oranizacion y Function del FIRCO.
14.   Project cost computer files.
15.   FItCO. Example of 'Acuerdos de Coordinacion con los Gobiernos
Estales".
16.   Example of "Contrat de Prestacion de Servicios Profesiouales; for
agrcultural extension.
17.   Example of "Contiato de Obra Publica .
18.   Bample of "Contrato de Servicios Reladionos con Ia Obra
Publica".
19.   Example of ConUtMo de Mano de Obta Campesinae.



-75
Axesx X
Page 2 of- 2-
20.   =xample of '"Convenio de Riesgo Compartido".
21.  World Bank. Mexico - SOi Conservation> Sector Review.
22.   FIRCO. Procediniento de Supervision Tecnica.
23.   FIRCO. Proyecto de DesarroUo de Areas de Temporl -
Ierarquizacion y Perfl de- los Distritos de DesarUoL Rural:
Necesidades de Investigacion, Validacion, y Demostracion de
Tecnologia.
24.   SARH/IMTA. Guia Tecnica para la Conservacion en el Tropico.



IBRD 2529
'  \t    S   w          .         .                      .                           . -                                          M-E X I C Oo. 
2m..d.                                                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MEXICO.
CAPFOENIA                                     _-                                                                                   RAINFED  AREAS
-\ 3A/A i-   >\  Nr>'l-   ir4>  >                     DEVELOPMENT PROJECT -
w~~~~~~~~~~~
't ; ~~m.S                            rlIo             .~    /\  <f   J
0.1~~~~~~~N
N  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Su.cwopiat"
CAi- A                                                                                                                                   $Ot -- Fdr mN$ aird n feods
-Railroads
4   Princ   rportb
,  State bo' Waries
-s,t-.seiai bmww6sies
N~~~~~~~~~~~
A~~~~~~ ~~IBELIZE
MIIOsLM                  no - 3    30 00
MILlS 0           GUATEMALA
ln~a  me ortof Te ~4dBankf
-HONDURAS
,tah^, a -t a < 9,P' .i t,N& ok                                                                                                                          JA



