Page  1
                                                           CONFORMED COPY
                                                      LOAN NUMBER 3778 ME
                              Loan Agreement
                    (Rainfed Areas Development Project)
                                  between
                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                              AND DEVELOPMENT
                                    and
                        NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.N.C.
                            Dated July 19, 1994
                                                      LOAN NUMBER 3778 ME
                              LOAN AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated July 19, 1994, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.N.C.
(the Borrower).
      WHEREAS (A) United Mexican States (the Guarantor) and the Borrower,
having been satisfied as to the feasibility and priority of the Project
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, have requested the Bank to assist
in the financing of the Project;
      (B)   by an agreement (the Guarantee Agreement) of even date herewith
between the Guarantor and the Bank, the Guarantor has agreed to guarantee
the obligations of the Borrower in respect of the Loan and to undertake such
other obligations as set forth in the Guarantee Agreement; and
      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions
set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                 ARTICLE I
                      General Conditions; Definitions
Page  2
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set
forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this
Agreement:
      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
      (b)   In Section 6.02, subparagraph (k) is relettered as subparagraph
(l) and a new subparagraph (k) is added to read:
                  "(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under
            which any further withdrawals under the Loan would be
            inconsistent with the provisions of Article III, Section 3 of
            the Bank's Articles of Agreement."
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms
defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms
have the following meanings:
      (a)   "CODEITT" means the Guarantor's Interinstitutional Delegation
Committee on Technology Transfers (Comite Delegacional  Interinstitucional
de Transferencia de Tecnologia);
      (b)   "FIRCO" means the Guarantor's Trust Fund for Shared Risk
(Fideicomiso de Riesgo Compartido), a trust established by the Guarantor
with Banco Nacional de Credito Rural as trustee and governed by the Convenio
Modificatorio al Contrato de Fideicomiso de Riesgo Compartido dated November
30, 1992;
      (c)   "Implementation Indicators" means the implementation indicators
set forth in Annex 1 to the letter from the Guarantor to the Bank of even
date with this Agreement;
      (d)   "INIFAP" means the Guarantor's National Institute for Forestry,
Agriculture and Livestock Research (Instituto Nacional de Investigaciones
Forestales y Agropecuarias);
      (e)   "Operating Rules" means the "Operating Mechanisms" (Mecanica
Operativa) and the "Operating Rules" (Reglas de Operacion) of FIRCO, both
dated October 26, 1993;
      (f)   "Project States" means the Guarantor's States of Chiapas,
Guanajuato, Guerrero, Hidalgo, Jalisco, Mexico, Michoacan, Oaxaca, Puebla
and Veracruz;
      (g)   "Project Unit" means the unit to be established and thereafter
operated by FIRCO in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.04 of the
Guarantee Agreement; and
      (h)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section
2.02(b) of this Agreement.
                                ARTICLE II
                                 The Loan
      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, various
currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of
eighty-five million dollars ($85,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of
the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the
date of such withdrawal.
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made)
in respect of the reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan.
      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and
maintain in dollars a special deposit account in Banco de Mexico on terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits into, and payments out of,
Page  3
the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1999 or such later
date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the
Borrower and the Guarantor of such later date.
      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate
for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
determined in respect of the preceding Semester, plus one-half of one
percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this
Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount
outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.
      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank
shall notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.
      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:
            (i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the
                  date immediately preceding each date specified in Section
                  2.06 of this Agreement, beginning with the Interest
                  Period in which this Agreement is signed.
          (ii)    "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
                  reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a
                  percentage per annum, of the outstanding borrowings of
                  the Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982, excluding such
                  borrowings or portions thereof as the Bank has allocated
                  to fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B) loans which
                  may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing
                  interest rates determined otherwise than as provided in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section.
          (iii)   "Semester" means the first six months or the second six
                  months of a calendar year.
      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months'
notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section
shall be amended to read as follows:
            "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount
      of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate
      for each Quarter equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined
      in respect of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent
      (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this
      Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the principal
      amount outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated
      at the rates applicable during such Interest Period."
            "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter, the
      Bank shall notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of the Cost of
      Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such Quarter."
            "(c)  (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period commencing on
      January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a calendar year."
      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually
on April 1 and October 1 in each year.
      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the
Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3
to this Agreement.
                                ARTICLE III
                Transfer of Loan Proceeds; Other Covenants
Page  4
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall enter into contractual
arrangements with the Guarantor, satisfactory to the Bank, providing, inter
alia, for: (i) the transfer to the Guarantor of the proceeds of the Loan for
the carrying out of the Project through FIRCO; and (ii) the transfer by the
Guarantor to the Borrower of such funds as the Borrower shall be required
to pay to the Bank on account of principal, interest and other charges on
the Loan. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not
amend or fail to enforce any provision of such contractual arrangements.
      (b)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the contractual
arrangements referred to in paragraph (a) above in such manner as to protect
the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes
of the Loan.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement
of the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the
provisions of the Schedule to the Guarantee Agreement.
      Section 3.03. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the
obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of
the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and services,
plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition,
respectively) shall be carried out by, or shall caused to be carried out by,
the Guarantor pursuant to Section 3.03 of the Guarantee Agreement.
      Section 3.04. The Borrower shall participate in the midterm and annual
reviews referred to in Section 3.08 of the Guarantee Agreement.
                                ARTICLE IV
                            Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the resources and expenditures in connection
with the execution of the Project.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph
                  (a) of this Section, and the records and accounts for the
                  Special Account, for each fiscal year audited, in
                  accordance with generally accepted auditing standards and
                  procedures consistently applied, by independent and
                  qualified auditors;
            (ii)  furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case
                  not later than six months after the end of each such
                  year, the report of such audit by such auditors, of such
                  scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have
                  reasonably requested;
            (iii) furnish to the Bank each month certified statements of
                  the Special Account; and
            (iv)  furnish to the Bank such other information concerning
                  said records and accounts as well as the audit thereof as
                  the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the
Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the
Borrower shall provide to the Guarantor any information that may be required
by the Guarantor to comply with the Guarantor's obligations under Section
4.01 (c) of the Guarantee Agreement.
                                 ARTICLE V
                           Remedies of the Bank
      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions,
the following additional event is specified, namely, that the Convenio
Page  5
Modificatorio al Contrato de Fideicomiso de Riesgo Compartido referred to
in Section 1.02 (c) of this Agreement shall have been amended, suspended,
abrogated or waived so as to affect, in the opinion of the Bank, materially
and adversely the ability of the Guarantor to perform any of its obligations
under the Guarantee Agreement.
      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions,
the following additional event is specified, namely, that the event
specified in Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
                                ARTICLE VI
                        Effective Date; Termination
      Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an additional
condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of
Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions, namely, that the contractual
arrangements referred to in Section 3.01 (a) of this Agreement have been
executed.
      Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional matter,
within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be
included in the opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Bank, namely,
that the contractual arrangements referred to in Section 3.01 (a) of this
Agreement have been duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and the
Guarantor, have been duly executed by them, and are legally binding upon the
Borrower and the Guarantor in accordance with their terms.
      Section 6.03. The date October 17, 1994 is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
                                ARTICLE VII
                 Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 7.01. The Director Internacional of the Borrower is designated
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the
General Conditions.
      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes
of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Bank:
            International Bank for
              Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  INTBAFRAD                  197688 (TRT),
                  Washington, D.C.           248423 (RCA),
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                              82987 (FTCC)
      For the Borrower:
            Direccion Internacional
            Nacional Financiera, S.N.C.
            Plaza Inn, Insurgentes Sur 1971
            Torre IV, Piso 8
            01020 Mexico, D.F.
            Mexico
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  NAFIN                     NAFIME 383-1775765
                  Mexico City               Mexico City
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their
respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as
Page  6
of the day and year first above written.
                  INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                    RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                  By /s/ Shahid Javed Burki
                  Regional Vice President
                  Latin America and the Caribbean
                  NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.N.C.
                  By /s/ Jose Garcia Torres
                  Authorized Representative
                                SCHEDULE 1
                  Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to
each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed
in each Category:
                              Amount of the
                             Loan Allocated          % of
                              (Expressed in        Expenditures
Category                  Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1)     Works                     26,100,000        80%
(2)     Goods                     17,100,000        80%
(3)     Technical                                   80%
    Assistance:
    (a) Agriculture                9,800,000
        extension
        services
    (b) Consultants'               7,200,000
        services,
        training and
        studies
    (c) Supervision                8,700,000
        services by
        FIRCO
(4)     Unallocated               16,100,000
                                  __________
        TOTAL                     85,000,000
                                  ==========
2.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals
shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date
of this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not
exceeding the equivalent of $8,500,000, may be made on account of payments
made for expenditures before that date but after November 3, 1993.
Page  7
3.  The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for
goods not exceeding $350,000 equivalent, under contracts for works not
exceeding $350,000 equivalent, and under contracts for consulting services
not exceeding $100,000 equivalent for firms and $50,000 equivalent for
individuals, all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify
by notice to the Borrower.
                                SCHEDULE 2
                        Description of the Project
    The objective of the Project is to raise agricultural productivity in
the Project States.
    The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower, the Guarantor and the Bank may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objective.
Part A:   Rural Investment
1.        Financing by FIRCO of:
    (a)   construction, rehabilitation and extension of tubewell irrigation
systems in the Project States;
    (b)   construction, rehabilitation and extension of small surface
irrigation and drainage systems in the Project States;
    (c)   soil conservation works in the Project States; and
    (d)   small agricultural investments in the Project States to intensify
resource use or to transform agricultural activities into more productive
ones, such as, for example, pasture establishment, plant and animal disease
control, plant nursery establishment, and livestock production.
2.  Supervision by FIRCO of the activities financed by it under paragraph
1 above.
Part B:   Agricultural Technology Transfer
1.  Financing by FIRCO of:
    (a)   the provision of agricultural extension services by the private
sector with respect to all rural investment operations under Part A of the
Project; and
    (b)   validation and demonstration of new productive techniques on
approximately 5,300 validation and demonstration plots in the Project
States.
2.  Promotion by FIRCO of soil conservation practices in the Project States,
including watershed protection and on-farm soil conservation practices, and
acquisition and use by FIRCO of specialized equipment for validation and
demonstration of soil conservation practices.
3.  Supervision by FIRCO of the activities under paragraph 1 above.
Part C:   Institutional Development of FIRCO
1.  Strengthening of FIRCO's investment design capacity through use of
consultant services to complete approximately 1,000 investment feasibility
studies.
2.  Training of staff of FIRCO in areas related to the Project such as
administration, infrastructure contracting management, agriculture and
promotion of producers' organizations.
3.  Improvement of FIRCO's information management through the acquisition
and use of appropriate computer equipment for monitoring and control
purposes and upgrading of FIRCO's documentation center.
4.  Strengthening of FIRCO's monitoring and evaluation expertise, FIRCO's
Page  8
capabilities in environmental management and integrated pest management, and
FIRCO'S capabilities in livestock production through the use of consultant
services.
                                   * * *
    The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1998.
                                SCHEDULE 3
                           Amortization Schedule
                                              Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                              (expressed in dollars)*
On each April 1 and October 1
    beginning April 1, 2000
    through April 1, 2009                     4,250,000
On October 1, 2009                            4,250,000
________________________
*   The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as
    of the respective dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections
    3.04 and 4.03.
                          Premiums on Prepayment
    Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium
payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid
shall be the percentage specified for the applicable time of prepayment
below:
    Time of Prepayment                        Premium
                                        The interest rate (expressed as a
                                        percentage per annum) applicable
                                        to the Loan on the day of
                                        prepayment multiplied
                                        by:
Not more than three years                     0.20
    before maturity
More than three years but                     0.40
    not more than six years
    before maturity
More than six years but                       0.73
    not more than 11 years
    before maturity
More than 11 years but not                    0.87
    more than 13 years
Page  9
    before maturity
More than 13 years                            1.00
    before maturity
                                SCHEDULE 4
                              Special Account
1.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (3)
set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
    (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to
the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement; and
    (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to
$5,500,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.  Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.  After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and
subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as
follows:
    (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which
do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit in the Special Account
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
          (b)  (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower
                     shall furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into
                     the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank
                     shall specify.
              (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
                     Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents and
                     other evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of
                     this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect
                     of which replenishment is requested. On the basis of
                     each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
                     Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit
                     into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
                     shall have requested and as shall have been shown by
                     said documents and other evidence to have been paid
                     out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under
the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent
amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish
to the Bank such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was
made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
    (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account
in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and
paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
Page  10
    (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the
eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment
entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions
with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount
of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn
amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such
procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall
have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making
payments for eligible expenditures.
6.  (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not
eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified
by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon
notice from the Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Bank may
request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so
request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment
or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account
shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such
deposit or refund, as the case may be.
    (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further
payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice
from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
    (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all
or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
    (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c)
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent
withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions
of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
                                                                  ANNEX 1
                                                              Page 1 of 2
                         Implementation Indicators
›See hard copy.|
                    Terms of Reference: Mid-term Review
OBJETIVO
      Para dar cumplimiento a las condiciones establecidas en el convenio
de garantias, durante el ano de 1996, se llevara a cabo una evaluacion del
proyecto para medir sus impactos productivos, socioeconomicos y ambientales
que permitan conocer el avance de su operacion basado en los indicadores de
desempeno que se senalan en el Anexo I de esta carta.
ALCANCES DE LA EVALUACION
      La evaluacion comprendera el analisis comparativo de los ejercicios
presupuestarios versus los techos financieros previstos para el proyecto;
el cumplimiento de las metas asignadas a cada componente segun lo establecen
los indicadores de gestion; la cuantificacion de los impactos productivos,
socioeconomicos y los probables efectos ambientales especialmente de obras
Page  11
hidraulicas subterraneas y de proyectos forestales y ganaderos que impliquen
desmontes, asi como aquellos proyectos agricolas que involucren incrementos
significativos del uso de plaguicidas.
PROCEDIMIENTOS METODOLOGICOS
      Los trabajos abaracaran la totalidad de los 10 estados prioritarios
participantes en el proyecto y los analisis comparativos tomaran como base
los programas operativos anuales de cada estado, los cierres operativos de
los programas y los informes de resultados para evaluar los aspectos
siguientes:
1.    Estado del Proyecto y su Impacto Socioeconomico y Ambiental
(a)   Alcance de metas para cada componente y su comparacion con los
      indicadores de desempeno del Cuadro No. 1 del Anexo VIII del
      documento de evaluacion.
(b)   Cuantificacion de los impactos productivos y analisis economico de
      resultados de las parcelas o modulos de transferencia de tecnologia,
      a efecto de estimar las posibilidades de adopcion por parte de los
      productores e incorporacion de innovaciones a los paquetes
      tecnologicos.
(c)   Encuestas del servicio de extension a fin de obtener parametros que
      midan el grado de aceptacion y participacion de los productores en la
      contratacion del servicio.
(d)   Evaluacion de los probables efectos ambientales en el tipo de
      acciones e inversiones descritos en los alcances de la evaluacion.
(e)   Cuantificacion de los impactos productivos de aquellas practicas de
      conservacion de suelos que tienen efectos directos en la
      productividad tales como:  subsuelo, aplicacion de abonos organicos,
      vara de mejoradores quimicos y otras practicas de laboreo agricola
      donde sea factible la medicion de sus efectos.
(f)   Cambios en los patrones de cultivos para la busqueda de nuevas
      alternativas productivas de mejor rentabilidad.
(g)   Revision de los procedimientos de analisis ambiental y
      recomendaciones para su mejor implementacion.
2.    Ejercicio presupuestario y estados financieros:
(a)   Analisis comparativo de los costos anuales del proyecto con los
      presupuestos ejercidos para cada componente.
(b)   Revision y analisis del grado de cumplimiento del reembolso de gastos
      conforme a las condiciones establecidas en los convenios de garantias
      y de prestamo.
(c)   Revision y analisis de los procedimientos de licitacion para su
      adecuacion pertinente y simplificacion si fuera el caso.
(d)   Revision a los estados financieros y recomendaciones para mejorar su
      formulacion.
3.    Gestion del proyecto:
(a)   Revision de la gestion del proyecto en general.
(b)   Revision de los alcances en el componente de desarrollo institucional
      y capacitacion.
(c)   Recomendaciones para el mejor funcionamiento del proyecto.
CONCLUSIONES Y RECOMENDACIONES
      Se formulara un resumen ejecutivo donde se detallen las
recomendaciones que permitan reorientar la implementacion de las acciones
Page  12
del proyecto y aquellas recomendaciones que mejoren la eficiencia en la
operacion del proyecto, cuya incorporacion previamente sera acordada con el
Banco durante la revision anual que se llevara a cabo en octubre de 1996.
                                                                  ANNEX 3
                                                              Page 1 of 1
                      Environmental Screening Process
      The environmental screening process to be applied to all investment
projects to be financed under the Loan (subprojects) will be done in
accordance with the agreement between the National Water Commission and the
Guarantor's Secretariat for Social Development (SEDESOL).  This agreement
includes the following key points, which shall not be changed during the
course of Project implementation without the agreement of the Bank:
1.    Group 1: projects in biosphere reserves.  They are forbidden and FIRCO
excludes all such subprojects.
2.    Group 2: new subprojects and expansion of existing systems.  FIRCO
subprojects that require this type of screening are: (a) subprojects that
include the perforation of tubewells, and (ii) irrigation projects of more
than 100 hectares.  Some FIRCO subprojects fall in CNA's Group 2 and require
SEDESOL's explicit opinion.  Most subprojects in this group require more
detailed study, either an Environmental Protection Report or an
Environmental Impact Study, which is usually prepared by consultants and is
then forwarded to SEDESOL for its decision.
3.    Group 3: subprojects for which, according to Mexican law, no
environmental assessment is required because they are too small.
Subprojects in this group include: (a) dams with a holding capacity of less
than 500,000 cubic metres; (b) isolated water wells; (c) irrigation areas
of less than 100 hectares; (d) irrigation systems that draw less than 10 %
of the natural replenishment capacity of the natural water source on which
they depend; and (e) rehabilitated systems for use of groundwater.  For such
subprojects the producers prepare a 'diagnosis of environmental impact'
(diagnostico de impacto ambiental) and the relevant authority (CNA, SEDESOL
or SARH) gives its clearance.
4.    Virtually all subprojects are expected to fall under the Group 3
environmental selection criteria.  However, all subprojects that exploit
groundwater, whether in Group 2 or Group 3, require procedures to obtain the
authorization of CNA for extraction of the specified volume of water before
any agreement is made with FIRCO.  Subprojects for groundwater extraction
are forbidden in exclusion zones defined by CNA (zonas de veda).
5.    Group 4: subprojects for which construction of civil works was
initiated after enactment of Ley General del Equilibrio Ecologico y la
Proteccion del Ambiente but that have not received an environmental ranking
from SEDESOL.  No subprojects fall in this group.
                                                                  ANNEX 4
                                                              Page 1 of 1
                        Method of Economic Analysis
      The Guarantee Agreement (para. 3.06 (b)) specifies that all prices for
the ex-ante economic analysis are to be in world prices (i.e. import or
export parity prices, depending on whether Mexico is a net importer or
exporter of the commodity). It is understood that in some cases local market
equivalents may be used. The choice between world price equivalents and
local market prices will depend on the degree to which the product enters
international markets.
      A.               Output prices.  Import-parity prices are to be used
for grains (rice, wheat, maize, sorghum, barley, and all others that are
imported), oilseeds (soybean, safflower, sesame, and cottonseed) and milk
and dairy products. Export-parity prices are to be used for beef and live
animals, cotton, and fruits and vegetables. Local market prices can be used
for products that are largely non-traded, notably pastures.
      B.                Input prices.  Import-parity prices are to be used
for fertilizers. Official rates can be used for irrigation water. Other
Page  13
agricultural chemicals and largely non-traded inputs (e.g. fencing) can be
valued at their domestic market prices. Labor can be valued at market wages
prevailing in the project area. Land can be valued at rentals prevailing in
the project area.
      C.Transport and other intermediation costs.  The calculation of transport
and
other intermediation costs is to be made on the basis of relevant data to
be provided by ASERCA. Transport and other intermediation costs--capital,
handling, storage, insurance--are to be added to world prices up to the
project area for import-parity goods and subtracted from world prices
beginning at the project area up to the relevant world market for export-
parity goods.
      D.      Price and cost periods.  All prices and costs will be
specified in real terms in the period of analysis. Economic analysis will
typically be done for a period of 10 to 20 years, depending on the type of
investment. Price and cost periods will be taken as the annual average in
the year preceding the date of the feasibility study, or the average price
at harvest if the latter is more relevant (e.g. for some crops that have
sharply seasonal harvests and strong price fluctuations in consequence).
      E.              Exchange rates.  Exchange rates to convert world
prices into pesos are to be the average of market exchange rates for the
same period in which prices are calculated.
      F.    Producers' contributions.  Producers contributions in labor to
investments will be valued at prevailing local market wages for the type of
work contributed. The quantity of work contributed to each task will be
estimated on the basis of standard coefficients, as now applied by FIRCO.
Producers' contributions in materials will be valued at their actual
purchase cost.
           Terms of Reference: Agricultural Extension Specialist
OBJETIVO
      El proyecto prevee en los l0 estados prioritarios, el otorgamiento del
servicio de extension agricola a los grupos organizados de productores
elegibles para el financiamiento de las acciones de infraestructura rural
y transferencia de tecnologia a fin de brindarles la asesoria tecnica que
permita mejorar sus sistemas productivos y buscar alternativas de cultivos
mas rentables.
ALCANCES DEL ESTUDIO
      El estudio pretende mediante una revision de caracter muestral,
verificar los procedicmientos para la seleccion, contratacion y otorgamiento
del servicio de extension agricola que reciben los grupos de productores
organizados, a fin de constatar que se cuenta con un sistema agil, eficiente
y de entera libertad para que los productores seleccionen y contraten al
asesor tecnico que se integre mejor a los propositos de la organizacion y
las finalidades de sus proyectos productivos.
PROCEDIMIENTOS DE TRABAJO
      En la formulacion del estudio, el consultor especialista, debera
enfocar su proceso analitico a los aspectos siguientes:
1.    Seleccion muestral y al azar de 50 convenios que se celebren entre
FIRCO-Productores y sus correspondientes contratos de prestacion de
servicios profesionales que se firmen entre productores-asesor tecnico en
cualquiera de los 10 estados prioritarios que conforman el universo de
trabajo del proyecto.
2.    En dichos convenios y contratos, se analizaran las condiciones y
compromisos contractuales que se establecen con objeto de hacer extensivas
sus recomendaciones para adecuar su presentacion y contenido y asegurar que
el productor reciba la calidad de los servicios pactados y sobre todo la
Page  14
asesoria tecnica requerida para los fines de su explotacion.
3.    Realizar encuestas con productores en campo, para captar las
necesidades adicionales de asesoria tecnica, que conlleven al otorgamiento
de una asistencia tecnica de caracter integral.
4.    Evaluar el grado de aceptacion de la asistencia tecnica por parte del
productor y los cambios tecnologicos adoptados en sus sistemas de produccion
y en el patron de cultivos.
5.    Entrevistar a los asesores tecnicos para captar las necesidades de
capacitacion que incrementen su experiencia profesional y los canales de
comunicacion a fin de mejorar la eficiencia de sus servicios.
PRODUCTO ESPERADO
1.    Se debera formular resumen ejecutivo con las conclusiones y
recomendaciones que permitan incorporar las adecuaciones a realizar en los
documentos de concertacion y de prestacion de servicios que mejoren el
contenido y los terminos para la contratacion de los servicios de extension
agricola.
2.    Se detallara el mecanismo que asegure la completa libertar del
productor ortanizado para la seleccion y contratacion de su asesor tecnico.
3.    Debera contener los senalamientos especificos de las necesidades
adicionales de capacitacion para mejorar y fortalecer el conocimiento o
experiencia profesional de los asesores con miras a lograr una asesoria
integral y una estrecha participacion con la organizacion de productores.
PROYECTO DE DESARROLLO DE AREAS DE TEMPORAL
      Terminos de referencia para la evaluacion de mediano plazo del
proyecto.
OBJETIVO
      Para dar cumplimiento a las condiciones establecidas en el convenio
de garantias, durante el ano de 1996, se llevara a cabo una evaluacion del
proyecto para medir sus impactos productivos, socioeconomicos y ambientales
que permitan conocer el avance de su operacion basado en los indicadores de
gestion que se senalen en la table No. 1 del Anexo VIII del documento de
evaluacion.
ALCANCES DE LA EVALUACION
      La evaluacion comprendera el analisis comparativo de los ejercicios
presupuestarios versus los techos financieros previstos para el proyecto;
el cumplimiento de las metas asignadas a cada componente segun lo establecen
los indicadores de gestion; la cuantificacion de los impactos productivos,
socioeconomicos y los probables efectos ambientales especialmente de
perforacion de pozos, zonas de riego y de proyectos forestales y ganaderos
que impliquen desmontes, asi como aquellos proyectos agricolas que
involucren incrementos significativos del uso de plaguicidas.
PROCEDIMIENTOS METODOLOGICOS
      Los trabajos abarcaran la totalidad de los 10 estados prioritarios
participantes en el proyecto y los analisis comparativos tomaran como base
los programas operativos anuales de cada estado, los cierres operativos de
los programas y los informes de resultados para evaluar los aspectos
siguientes:
1.    Estado del Proyecto
      (a)   Alcance de metas para cada componente y su composicion con los
            indicadores de gestion de la table No. 1 del Anexo VIII del
            documento de evaluacion.
      (b)   Cuantificacion de los impactos productivos y analisis economico
            de resultados de las parcelas modulos de transferencia de
            tecnologia, a efecto de estimar las posibilidades de adaptacion
Page  15
            por parte de los productores e incorporacion de innovaciones a
            los proyectos tecnologicos.
      (c)   Encuestas del servicio de extension a fin de obtener parametros            
que midan el grado de aceptacion y participacion de los
            productores en la contratacion del servicio.
      (d)   Evaluacion de los probables efectos ambientales en el tipo de
            acciones e inversiones descritos en los alcances de la
            evaluacion.
      (e)   Cuantificacion de los impactos productivos de aquellas
            practicas de conservacion de suelos que tienen efectos directos
            en la productividad tales como: subsuelo, aplicacion de abonos
            organicos, vara de mejoradores quimicos y otras practicas de
            laboreo agricola donde sea factible la medicion de sus efectos.
      (f)   Cambios en los patrones e cultivos para la busqueda de nuevas
            alternativas productivas de mejor rentabilidad.
2.    Ejercicio presupuestario y estados financieros:
      (a)   Analisis comparativo de los costos anuales del proyecto con los
            presupuestos ejercidos para cada componente.
      (b)   Revision y analisis del grado de cumplimiento del reembolso de
            gastos conforme a las condiciones establecidas en los convenios
            de garantias y de prestamo.
      (c)   Revision y analisis de los procedimientos de licitacion para su
            adecuacion pertinente y simplificacion si fuera el caso.
      (d)   Revision a los estados financieros y recomendaciones para
            mejorar su formulacion.
3.    Conclusiones y Recomendaciones
      Se formulara un resumen ejecutivo donde se detallen las
recomendaciones que permitan reorientar la implementacion de las acciones
del proyecto y aquellas recomendaciones que mejoren la eficiencia en la
operacion del proyecto, cuya incorporacion previamente sera acordada con el
Banco durante la revision anual que se llevara a cabo en octubre de 1996.
