Page  1
October 4, 1996
Mr. Roberto Casillas Contreras Medellin
Director Internacional
Nacional Financiera, S.N.C.
Torre IV, piso 8
Plaza Inn, Insurgentes Sur 1971
01020 Mexico, D.F.
Mexico
Mr. Martin Werner
Director General de Credito Publico
Secretaria de Hacienda y Credito Publico
Insurgentes Sur 826, piso 9
03100 Mexico, D.F.
Mexico
          Re.:  Rainfed Areas Development Project - (Loan No. 3778-ME)
                Amendment to the Loan and Guarantee Agreements
Dear Sirs:
     We refer to the Loan Agreement between International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) and Nacional Financiera,
S.N.C. (the Borrower), and the Guarantee Agreement between United
Mexican States (the Guarantor) and the Bank, both dated July 19,
1994.  We are pleased to inform you of our agreement to amend said
Loan and Guarantee Agreements, as follows:
I.   Amendments to the Loan Agreement
1.   Section 1.02 (f) is hereby amended to read as follows in its
entirety:  ""Project States" means the Guarantor's States of Chiapas,
Guanajuato, Guerrero, Hidalgo, Jalisco, Mexico, Michoacan, Oaxaca,
Puebla, Veracruz, Durango, Campeche, Nayarit, San Luis Potosi, Tabasco,
Tlaxcala, Yucatan, Zacatecas, Aguascalientes, Colima, Morelos and
Quintana Roo;".
2.   Section 1.02 is hereby amended by relettering its paragraph (h)
to become new paragraph (i) and by adding a new paragraph (h),
immediately before said new paragraph (i), to read as follows in its
entirety: ""SAGAR" means the Guarantor's Secretariat of Agriculture
(Secretaria de Agricultura, Ganaderia y Desarrollo Rural);".
3.   Section 3.01 (a) is hereby amended to read as follows in its
entirety:  "The Borrower shall enter into contractual arrangements
with the Guarantor, satisfactory to the Bank, providing, inter alia,
for:  (i) the transfer to the Guarantor of the proceeds of the Loan
for the carrying out Parts A and B.1 of the Project through SAGAR or
FIRCO, as the case may be, and Parts B.2, B.3 and C of the Project
through FIRCO; and (ii) the transfer by the Guarantor to the Borrower
of such funds as the Borrower shall be required to pay to the Bank on
account of principal, interest and other charges on the Loan. Except
as the Bank may otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not amend or fail
to enforce any provision of such contractual arrangements.".
4.   Section 3.03 is hereby amended by replacing the words "shall
caused" with the words "shall be caused".
5.   Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement is hereby amended to read in its
entirety as shown in the Annex to this letter.
II.  Amendments to the Guarantee Agreement
6.   Section 3.01 is hereby amended to read as follows in its entirety:
"The Guarantor declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project
as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement and, to this end,
without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations
under the Guarantee Agreement, the Guarantor shall carry out Parts A
Page  2
and B.1 of the Project through SAGAR or FIRCO, as the case may be, and
Parts B.2, B.3 and C of the Project through FIRCO, all with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate financial,
administrative, agricultural and environmental standards and practices.".
7.   Section 3.04 is hereby amended to read as follows in its entirety:
"The Guarantor shall, in a manner acceptable to the Bank, maintain
within FIRCO a project unit with appropriate functions and with
qualified staff in adequate numbers and maintain within FIRCO an
appropriate organizational structure for the carrying out of FIRCO's
obligations under the Project.  The Guarantor shall, through the
Borrower, inform the Bank of any proposed change in the Project Unit
or in the organizational structure or functions of FIRCO if such
change may adversely affect the implementation of the Project, prior
to making any such change.".
8.   Section 3.05 is hereby amended to read as follows in its entirety:
"The Guarantor shall:
     (a) cause Parts A and B of the Project to be carried out in
accordance with the Operating Rules (in the case of FIRCO Project
execution);
     (b) cause Parts A and B of the Project to be carried out in
accordance with the Operating Rules as such Operating Rules may be
applied, mutatis mutandis, solely to substitute SAGAR financing in
place of FIRCO financing (in the case of SAGAR Project execution);
and
     (c) shall cause there to be no change or waiver of any provision
of the Operating Rules (other than as permitted pursuant to paragraph
(b) of this Section) if such change or waiver may adversely affect the
implementation of said Parts of the Project.".
9.   Section 3.06 is hereby amended by:
     (a)  in its preamble, replacing the words "through FIRCO:" with
the words "through SAGAR or FIRCO, as the case may be:";
     (b)  in paragraph (d), replacing the words "FIRCO under Part A"
with the words "SAGAR or FIRCO under Part A"; and
     (c)  in paragraph (e), replacing the word "FIRCO" with the words
"SAGAR or FIRCO".
10.  Section 3.07 is hereby amended by:
     (a)  having its preamble read as follows in its entirety:  "For
the purpose of the execution of Part B of the Project, the Guarantor
shall, through SAGAR or FIRCO, as the case may be:";
     (b)  having its paragraph (a) read as follows in its entirety:
"ensure that producers receiving financing from SAGAR or FIRCO under
Part A of the Project sign agreements with SAGAR or FIRCO, as the
case may be, under which such producers agree to obtain agricultural
extension services through participation in producers' groups
organized for that purpose and that these agreements clearly inform
producers of their right to choose freely the extension agents or
organizations of their choice;";
     (c)  in paragraph (c), replacing the word "FIRCO" with the words
"SAGAR or FIRCO, as the case may be";
     (d)  in paragraph (g), replacing the word "FIRCO" with the words
"SAGAR or FIRCO"; and
     (e)  in paragraph (h), replacing the word "FIRCO" with the words
"SAGAR or FIRCO, as the case may be".
11.  Section 3.08 is hereby amended by, in its preamble and its
paragraph (a), replacing the word "FIRCO" with the words "SAGAR and
FIRCO".
Page  3
12.  Section 4.01 (a) is hereby amended by replacing the word "FIRCO"
with the words "SAGAR and FIRCO".
     Please confirm your agreement to the foregoing amendments by
signing and dating the three originals of this letter in the space
provided below, and returning one to us.  This amendment shall enter
into effect on the date of receipt by the Bank of one original of
this letter signed by you.  Withdrawals of the proceeds of Loan
3778-ME (from the Loan Account and the Special Account), consistent
with the terms of this amendment, may be made for expenditures prior
to the effective date of this amendment, on account of payments made
for expenditures incurred after January 1, 1996.
Sincerely yours,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
_______________________________
Olivier Lafourcade
Director
Mexico Country Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
AGREED:
NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.N.C.             UNITED MEXICAN STATES
By: ________________________            By: ________________________
     Authorized Representative              Authorized Representative
Date: November 19, 1996                 Date: November 19, 1996
                                Annex
                              SCHEDULE 2
                      Description of the Project
     The objective of the Project is to raise agricultural productivity
in the Project States.
     The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower, the Guarantor and the Bank may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objective.
Part A:  Rural Investment
     Financing by SAGAR or FIRCO of:
     (a)  construction, rehabilitation and extension of tubewell
irrigation systems in the Project States;
     (b)  construction, rehabilitation and extension of small surface
irrigation and drainage systems in the Project States;
     (c)  soil conservation works in the Project States; and
     (d)  small agricultural investments in the Project States to
intensify resource use or to transform agricultural activities into
more productive ones, such as, for example, pasture establishment,
plant and animal disease control, plant nursery establishment, and
livestock production.
Part B:  Agricultural Technology Transfer
Page  4
1.   Financing by SAGAR or FIRCO of:
     (a)  the provision of agricultural extension services by the
private sector with respect to all rural investment operations under
Part A of the Project; and
     (b)  validation and demonstration of new productive techniques
on approximately 5,300 validation and demonstration plots in the
Project States.
2.   Promotion by FIRCO of soil conservation practices in the Project
States, including watershed protection and on-farm soil conservation
practices, and acquisition and use by FIRCO of specialized equipment
for validation and demonstration of soil conservation practices.
3.   Provision of assistance by FIRCO, including technical assistance,
for the preparation of the activities financed or promoted under Parts
A, B.1 and B.2 of the Project, as well as the carrying out of super-
vision and evaluation of such activities by FIRCO.
Part C:  Institutional Development of FIRCO
1.   Strengthening of FIRCO's investment design capacity through use
of consultant services to complete approximately 1,000 investment
feasibility studies.
2.   Training of staff of FIRCO in areas related to the Project such
as administration, infrastructure contracting management, agriculture
and promotion of producers' organizations.
3.   Improvement of FIRCO's information management through the
acquisition and use of appropriate computer equipment for monitoring
and control purposes and upgrading of FIRCO's documentation center.
4.   Strengthening of FIRCO's monitoring and evaluation expertise,
FIRCO's capabilities in environmental management and integrated pest
management, and FIRCO'S capabilities in livestock production through
the use of consultant services.
                                 * * *
     The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1998.
