J
LOAN NUMBER 377 S ME
Loan Agreement
Rainfed Areas Development Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.N.C.
Dated    3 U                       , 1994


﻿LOAN NUMBER 317 & ME
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated -30t     0                 , 1994, between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and
NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.N.C. (the Borrower).
WHEREAS (A) United Mexican States (the Guarantor) and the
Borrower, having been satisfied as to the feasibility and priority
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, have
requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)   by an agreement (the Guarantee Agreement) of even date
herewith between the Guarantor and the Bank, the Guarantor has
agreed to guarantee the obligations of the Borrower in respect of
the Loan and to undertake such other obligations as set forth in the
Guarantee Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement:
(a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
(b)   In Section 6.02, subparagraph (k) is relettered as
subparagraph (1) and a new subparagraph (k) is added to read:
"(k) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen
under which any further withdrawals under the Loan would
be inconsistent with the provisions of Article III,
Section 3 of the Bank's Articles of Agreement."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:


﻿-2-
(a)   "CODEITT" means the Guarantor's Interinstitutional
Delegation Committee on Technology Transfers (Comit6 Delegacional
Interinstitucional de Transferencia de Tecnologia);
(b)   "FIRCO" means the Guarantor's Trust Fund for Shared Risk
(Fideicomiso de Riego Compartido), a trust established by the
Guarantor with Banco Nacional de Cr6dito Rural as trustee and
governed by the Convenio Modificatorio al Contrato de Fideicomiso de
Riesgo Compartido dated November 30, 1992;
(c)   "Implementation Indicators" means the implementation
indicators set forth in Annex 1 to the letter from the Guarantor to
the Bank of even date with this Agreement;
(d)   "INIFAP" means the Guarantor's National Institute for
Forestry, Agriculture and Livestock Research (Instituto Nacional de
Investigaciones Forestales y Agropecuarias);
(e)   "Operating Rules" means the "Operating Mechanisms"
(Mecinica Operativa) and the "Operating Rules" (Reglas de Operaci6n)
of FIRCO, both dated October 26, 1993;
(f)   "Project States" means the     Guarantor's States   of
Chiapas, Guanajuato, Guerrero, Hidalgo, Jalisco, M6xico, Michoacin,
Oaxaca, Puebla and Veracruz;
(g)   "Project Unit" means the unit to be established and
thereafter operated by FIRCO in accordance with the provisions of
Section 3.04 of the Guarantee Agreement; and
(h)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02(b) of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of eighty-five million dollars ($85,000,000), being the
sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal
valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.


﻿-3-
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods, works
and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in Banco de
M&xico on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits
into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1999 or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.
(b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.
(c)   For the purposes of this Section:
(i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending
on the date immediately preceding each date
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
beginning with the Interest Period in which this
Agreement is signed.


﻿-4-
(ii)    "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed
as a percentage per annum, of the outstanding
borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
1982, excluding such borrowings or portions
thereof as the Bank has allocated to fund: (A)
the Bank's investments; and (B) loans which may
be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing
interest rates determined otherwise than as
provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.
(iii)   "Semester" means the first six months or the
second six months of a calendar year.
(d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months' notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:
"(a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of
the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the
Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount
outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated
at the rates applicable during such Interest Period."
" (b) As soon as practicable after the end of each
Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower and the Guarantor
of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of
such Quarter."
"(c) (iii) 'Quarter' means a three-month period
commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a
calendar year."
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on April 1 and October 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.


﻿ARTICLE III
Transfer of Loan Proceeds; Other Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall enter into contractual
arrangements with the Guarantor, satisfactory to the Bank,
providing, inter alia, for: (i) the transfer to the Guarantor of the
proceeds of the Loan for the carrying out of the Project through
FIRCO; and (ii) the transfer by the Guarantor to the Borrower of
such funds as the Borrower shall be required to pay to the Bank on
account of principal, interest and other charges on the Loan. Except
as the Bank may otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not amend or
fail to enforce any provision of such contractual arrangements.
(b)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
contractual arrangements referred to in paragraph (a) above in such
manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and
to accomplish the purposes of the Loan.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be governed by the provisions of the Schedule to the Guarantee
Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the
obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and
9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods
and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance
and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by, or
shall caused to be carried out by, the Guarantor pursuant to Section
3.03 of the Guarantee Agreement.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall participate in the midterm
and annual reviews referred to in Section 3.08 of the Guarantee
Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and separate accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with sound accounting practices the resources and
expenditures in connection with the execution of the Pr-)ject.


﻿-6-
(b)   The Borrower shall:
(i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
paragraph (a) of this Section, and the records
and accounts for the Special Account, for each
fiscal year audited, in accordance with generally
accepted  auditing   standards  and   procedures
consistently   applied,   by   independent   and
qualified auditors;
(ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
any case not later than six months after the end
of each such year, the report of such audit by
such auditors, of such scope and in such detail
as the Bank shall have reasonably requested;
(iii) furnish  to  the   Bank  each  month  certified
statements of the Special Account; and
(iv) furnish   to  the Bank   such  other  information
concerning said records and accounts as well as
the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to
time reasonably request.
(c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall provide to the Guarantor any
information that may be required by the Guarantor to comply with the
Guarantor's obligations under Section 4.01 (c) of the Guarantee
Agreement.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (1) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely,
that the Convenio Modificatorio al Contrato de Fideicomiso de Riesso
Compartido referred to in Section 1.02 (c) of this Agreement shall
have been amended, suspended, abrogated or waived so as to affect,
in the opinion of the Bank, materially and adversely the ability of
the Guarantor to perform any of its obligations under the Guarantee
Agreement.


﻿-7-
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely,
that the event specified in Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall
occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section  6.01. The following     event  is  specified  as  an
additional condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions,
namely, that the contractual arrangements referred to in Section
3.01 (a) of this Agreement have been executed.
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank, namely, that the contractual arrangements
referred to in Section 3.01 (a) of this Agreement have been duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and the Guarantor, have been
duly executed by them, and are legally binding upon the Borrower and
the Guarantor in accordance with their terms.
Section 6.03. The date (OC-+oloeV' 1; 1/Aq         is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Director Internacional of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.


﻿-8-
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                Telex:
INTBAFRAD                  197688 (TRT),
Washington, D.C.           248423 (RCA),
64145 (WUI) or
82987 (FTCC)
For the Borrower:
Direcci6n Internacional
Nacional Financiera, S.N.C.
Plaza Inn, Insurgentes Sur 1971
Torre IV, Piso 8
01020 M&xico, D.F.
M6xico
Cable address:                Telex:
NAFIN                     NAFIME 383-1775765
Mexico City               Mexico City


﻿-9-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By   At      $c.~c         ~i
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.N.C.
By   /S/                         706C 'QCccZ Tor ces
Authorized Representative


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Works                     26,100,000        80%
(2) Goods                     17,100,000        80%
(3) Technical                                   80%
Assistance:
(a) Agriculture            9,800,000
extension
services
(b) Consultants'           7,200,000
services,
training and
studies
(c) Supervision            8,700,000
services by
FIRCO
(4) Unallocated               16,100,000
TOTAL                85,000,000
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of


﻿- 11 -
$8,500,000, may be made on account of payments made for expenditures
before that date but after November 3, 1993.
3.    The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be
made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures
under contracts for goods not exceeding $350,000 equivalent, under
contracts for works not exceeding $350,000 equivalent, and under
contracts for consulting services not exceeding $100,000 equivalent
for firms and $50,000 equivalent for individuals, all under such
terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the
Borrower.


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to raise agricultural
productivity in the Project States.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower, the Guarantor and the Bank
may agree upon from time to time to achieve such objective.
Part A:     Rural Investment
1.    Financing by FIRCO of:
(a)   construction, rehabilitation and extension of tubewell
irrigation systems in the Project States;
(b)   construction, rehabilitation and extension of small
surface irrigation and drainage systems in the Project States;
(c)   soil conservation works in the Project States; and
(d)   small agricultural investments in the Project States to
intensify resource use or to transform agricultural activities into
more productive ones, such as, for example, pasture establishment,
plant and animal disease control, plant nursery establishment, and
livestock production.
2.    Supervision by FIRCO of the activities financed by it under
paragraph 1 above.
Part B:     Agricultural Technology Transfer
1.    Financing by FIRCO of:
(a)   the provision of agricultural extension services by the
private sector with respect to all rural investment operations under
Part A of the Project; and
(b)   validation  and   demonstration   of  new   productive
techniques on approximately 5,300 validation and demonstration plots
in the Project States.


﻿- 13 -
2.    Promotion by FIRCO of soil conservation practices in the
Project States, including watershed protection and on-farm soil
conservation practices, and acquisition and use by FIRCO of
specialized equipment for validation and demonstration of soil
conservation practices.
3.    Supervision by FIRCO of the activities under paragraph 1
above.
Part C:     Institutional Development of FIRCO
1.    Strengthening of FIRCO's investment design capacity through
use of consultant services to complete approximately 1,000
investment feasibility studies.
2.    Training of- staff of FIRCO in areas related to the Project
such as administration, infrastructure contracting management,
agriculture and promotion of producers' organizations.
3.    Improvement of FIRCO's information management through the
acquisition and use of appropriate computer equipment for monitoring
and control purposes and upgrading of FIRCO's documentation center.
4.    Strengthening of FIRCO's monitoring and evaluation expertise,
FIRCO's capabilities in environmental management and integrated pest
management, and FIRCO'S capabilities in livestock production through
the use of consultant services.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1998.


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                         (expressed in dollars)*
On each April 1 and October 1
beginning April 1, 2000
through April 1, 2009                    4,250,000
On October 1, 2009                             4,250,000
*     The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.


﻿- 15 -
Premiums on Prepayment
Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:
Time of Prepayment                        Premium
The interest rate (ex-
pressed as a percentage
per annum) applicable to
the Loan on the day of
prepayment multiplied
by:
Not more than three years                       0.20
before maturity
More than three years but                       0.40
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but                         0.73
not more than 11 years
before maturity
More than 11 years but not                      0.87
more than 13 years
before maturity
More than 13 years                              1.00
before maturity


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1)
through (3) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
(b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)   the term   "Authorized Allocation" means an     amount
equivalent to $5,500,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as
the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)  (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
deposits into the Special Account at such
intervals as the Bank shall specify.
(ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents


﻿- 17 -
and other evidence required pursuant to para-
graph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
payments in respect of which replenishment is
requested. On the basis of each such request, the
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special
Account such amount as the Borrower shall have
requested and as shall have been shown by said
documents and other evidence to have been paid out
of the Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible
expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph      3  of  this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits
into the Special Account:
(a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or
(b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding
special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02
of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal
the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to
the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and
to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date


﻿- 18 -
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request,
refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.
(c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.
(d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy of
the original in the archives of the International Bank
for Reconstruction and Development.
FOR SECRETARY


