LOAN NUMBER ? 772ME
Guarantee Agreement
(Rainfed Areas Development Project)
between
UNITED MEXICAN STATES
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated JU\       Ki              , 1994


﻿LOAN NUMBER 311 ME
GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated Uuoj   19            , 1994, between UNITED
MEXICAN STATES (the Guarantor) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Guarantor and Nacional Financiera, S.N.C. (the
Borrower), having been satisfied as to the feasibility and priority
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, have
requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; and
(B)   by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between the
Bank and the Borrower, the Bank has agreed to extend to the Borrower
a loan in various currencies equivalent to eighty-five million
dollars ($85,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the
Loan Agreement, but only on condition that the Guarantor agree to
guarantee the obligations of the Borrower in respect of such loan
and to undertake such other obligations as provided in this
Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Guarantor, in consideration of the Bank's entering
into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed so to
guarantee such obligations of the Borrower and to undertake such
other obligations as set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth in Section 1.01 of the Loan Agreement (the
General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to and Section 1.02 of the Loan Agreement have the respective
meanings therein set forth.


﻿-2-
ARTICLE II
Guarantee; Provision of Funds
Section 2.01. Without limitation or restriction upon any of
its other obligations under the Guarantee Agreement, the Guarantor
hereby unconditionally guarantees, as primary obligor and not as
surety merely, the due and punctual payment of the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the premium, if any, on
the prepayment of the Loan, and the punctual performance of all the
other obligations of the Borrower and FIRCO, all as set forth in the
Loan Agreement and in this Agreement.
Section 2.02. The Guarantor shall enter into the contractual
arrangements referred to in Section 3.01 (a) of the Loan Agreement
and, except as the Bank may otherwise agree, shall not amend or fail
to enforce any provisions of such contractual arrangements. The
Guarantor shall exercise its rights under such contractual
arrangements in such manner as to protect the interests of the
Guarantor and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan.
Section 2.03. The Guarantor shall provide, in a timely manner
as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the Project.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Guarantor declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan
Agreement and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction
upon any of its other obligations under the Guarantee Agreement, the
Guarantor shall carry out the Project through FIRCO with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
financial, administrative, agricultural and environmental standards
and practices.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be governed by the provisions of the Schedule to this
Agreement.


﻿-3-
Section 3.03. The Guarantor shall carry out, or cause to be
carried out, the obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06,
9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating respectively
to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules,
records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition) with regard
to the Project.
Section 3.04. The Guarantor shall, in a manner acceptable to
the Bank, maintain within FIRCO a project unit with appropriate
functions and with qualified staff in adequate numbers and maintain
within FIRCO an appropriate organizational structure for the
execution, coordination and supervision of the Project. The
Guarantor shall, through the Borrower, inform the Bank of any
proposed change in the Project Unit or in the organizational
structure or functions of FIRCO if such change may adversely affect
the implementation of the Project, prior to making any such change.
Section 3.05. The Guarantor shall cause FIRCO to carry out
Parts A and B of the Project in accordance with the Operating Rules
and shall cause FIRCO not to change or waive any provision of the
Operating Rules if such change or waiver may adversely affect the
implementation of said Parts of the Project.
Section 3.06. For the purpose of the execution of Part A of
the Project, the Guarantor shall, through FIRCO:
(a)   ensure that all proposed investments are subjected to
environmental screening procedures agreed with the Bank and that
those procedures are implemented in a manner satisfactory to the
Guarantor and the Bank;
(b)   demonstrate   that  all   proposed   investments   are
economically profitable and shall, to that end: (i) carry out an
economic analysis of each proposed investment in a format agreed
with the Bank,, (ii) apply the net present value of the net economic
benefits of the proposed investment at international input and
output prices as the economic return criterion; (iii) use a 12
percent real discount rate to estimate net present value; and (iv)
accept only proposed investments with a positive net present value;
(c)   impose a minimum 15 percent cost sharing on producers of
the initial cost of the investment in accordance with a calculation
of the economic value of producers' contributions agreed with the
Bank;


﻿-4-
(d)   ensure that no minimum farm size limits are imposed on
producers receiving financing from FIRCO under Part A of the Project
and that such producers: (i) do not own farms larger than 20
hectares for producers engaged in crop activities; (ii) obtain
agricultural technical transfer services acceptable to FIRCO; and
(iii) are organized into groups for operating and managing the
investments;
(e)   ensure that the Project States sign annual agreements
with FIRCO in a format agreed with the Bank for co-financing and
implementation of the activities under Part A of the Project and
that each of the Project States' share in the financing of the
activities under Part A of the Project for such Project State shall
not be less on average than 20 percent of the total cost of the
activities under Part A of the Project in such Project State for
such year;
(f)   submit to the Bank for its prior review and approval the
feasibility studies for the first two investments to be financed
under Part A of the Project in each of the Project States; and
(g)   submit to the Bank for its prior review and approval all
feasibility studies for irrigated crop activities involving
producers who own more than 10 hectares in accordance with a
procedure agreed with the Bank.
Section 3.07. For the purpose of the execution of Part B of
the Project, the Guarantor, through FIRCO, shall:
(a)   ensure that producers receiving financing from FIRCO
under Part A of the Project sign agreements with FIRCO under which
such producers agree to obtain for agricultural extension services
through participation in producers' groups organized for that
purpose and that these agreements clearly inform producers of their
right to choose freely the extension agents or organizations of
their choice;
(b)   engage  the  services of   an agricultural extension
specialist, with qualifications and experience and on terms and
conditions agreed with the Bank, to review the first 50 extension
contracts under Parts B.1 and B.2 of the Project and make such
modifications in the procedures for employment of, or contract terms
and   conditions  of,  such   agricultural  extension   agents  or
organizations as may be warranted on the basis of the report of such
specialist;


﻿-5-
(c)   ensure that Part B.1 (b) of the Project shall be carried
out on the basis of a program (including an implement- --ion plan) of
trials of innovative activities for each Project State, said
programs to be prepared in cooperation with CODEITT by April 15,
1995 and to be satisfactory to FIRCO and the Bank;
(d)   ensure that in carrying out Part B.3 of the Project,
FIRCO, in addition to its regular supervision activities, shall also
focus on: (i) additional training needs for private extension
agents; (ii) the evolution, where necessary, from extension emphasis
on maximizing yields to a whole-farm approach that emphasizes cost
efficiency and finding the right production activity for particular
groups of farmers, drawing in part on farmers' own initiatives and
ideas; and (iii) targeting extension advice to the new macro-
economic conditions of prices and production activities with a focus
on minimizing production costs;
(e)   ensure that standards and procedures for the utilization
of pesticides are applied that are acceptable to the Guarantor and
the Bank;
(f)   ensure that the employment of all agricultural extension
agents or organizations under Part B of the Project shall be based
on standard terms of reference agreed with the Bank;
(g)   ensure that no minimum farm size limits are imposed on
producers receiving financing from FIRCO under Part B of the
Project; and
(h)   ensure that the Project States sign annual agreements
with FIRCO in a format agreed with the Bank for co-financing and
implementation of the activities under Part B of the Project.
Section 3.08. Without limitation upon the provisions of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions, the Guarantor, through
FIRCO, shall:
(a)   present to the Bank a draft budget and a proposed annual
work plan for the Project not later than October 31 of each year,
said proposed annual work plan to be in a format and of such scope
and detail as agreed with the Bank, and provide not later than April
30 of each year evidence satisfactory to the Bank of the approved
budget for FIRCO;


﻿-6-
(b)   furnish to the Bank bi-annual reports covering all
activities under the Project for the previous six months not later
than April 30 and October 31 of each year, said reports to be in a
format and of such scope and detail as agreed between the Guarantor
and the Bank;
(c)   hold an annual review of the Project with the Bank not
later than October 31 of each year to assess Project implementation,
based upon the Implementation Indicators, and to review and revise,
if necessary, to the satisfaction of the Bank, the proposed annual
work plan for the following year;
(d)   carry out a midterm review with the Bank not later than
October 31, 1996 on the basis of terms of reference for such review
agreed upon with the Bank, which terms of reference shall include:
(i) an assessment of the suitability and quality of the screening
procedures referred to in Section 3.06 (a) of this Agreement; and
(ii) an assessment of Project implementation and impact on the basis
of the Implementation Indicators and on the basis of a study on the
socioeconomic and environmental impact of the Project, including an
ex-post analysis of return on physical investments and extension
activities; and
(e)   promptly take all such action, satisfactory to the Bank,
as shall be necessary for the efficient execution of the Project or
the achievement of its objective if, as a result of any bi-annual
report or annual review, or as a result of the midterm review,
progress in the execution of the Project or in the achievement of
the objectives of the Project is not satisfactory to the Bank.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Guarantor shall maintain through FIRCO
records and separate accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance
with sound accounting practices, the resources and expenditures in
connection with the execution of the Project.
(b)   The Guarantor shall:
(i)   have such records and separate accounts referred
to in paragraph (a) of this Section for each
fiscal year audited, in accordance with generally
accepted  auditing   standards  and   procedures


﻿-7-
consistently   applied,   by   independent   and
qualified auditors;
(ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
any case not later than six months after the end
of each such year, a certified copy of the report
of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and
in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
requested; and
(iii)   furnish  to the Bank    such  other  information
concerning said records and accounts as well as
the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to
time reasonably request.
(c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditures, the Guarantor shall:
(i)  maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of
this Section, records and separate accounts
reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)   retain, until at least one year after the Bank
has received the audit report for the fiscal year
in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
Account or payment out of the Special Account was
made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing
such expenditures;
(iii)   enable the Bank's representatives to examine such
records; and
(iv) ensure that such records and separate accounts
are included in the annual audit referred to in
paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report
of such audit contains a separate opinion by said
auditors as to whether the statements of
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
together with the procedures and internal
controls involved in their preparation, can be
relied upon to support the related withdrawals.


﻿-8-
(d)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
were made from the Special Account, the Guarantor shall provide to
the Borrower any information that may be required by the Borrower to
comply with the Borrower's obligations under Section 4.01 (b) of the
Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE V
Representatives of the Guarantor; Addresses
Section 5.01. The Director General de Credito Plablico of the
Guarantor's Ministry of Finance and Public Credit is designated as
representative of the Guarantor for the purposes of Section 11.03 of
the General Conditions.
Section 5.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Guarantor:
Secretaria de Hacienda y Credito P-iblico
Direcci6n General de Cr&dito P6blico
Palacio Nacional, Patio Central
Oficina 4025
06066 M6xico, D.F., Mexico
Telex:
1777313-SHOCME
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                Telex:
INTBAFRAD                 248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)


﻿-9-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
UNITED MEXICAN STATES
By           r~ 2OMJ p0 V -Gt00
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By     /               t%6
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I. Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank
in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
(a)   For  fixed-price contracts, the    invitation  to  bid
referred to in paragraph 2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that,
when contract award is delayed beyond the original bid validity
period, the successful bidder's bid price will be increased for each
week of delay by a predisclosed correction factor acceptable to the
Bank. Such an increase shall not be taken into account in the bid
evaluation.
(b)   In the procurement of goods in accordance with this Part
A, the relevant standard bidding documents issued by the Bank as
modified by agreement between the Guarantor and the Bank dated
December 8, 1993 shall be used, with such modifications thereto as
the Bank shall have agreed to be necessary for the purposes of the
Project; provided, however, that for any procurement of goods for
which the invitation to bid ("convocatoria") is dated prior to March
1, 1994 standard bidding documents based on the so-called
"Cuernavaca Documents" with such changes as may be agreed by the
Bank and the Guarantor for each contract shall be used.
2.    To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be
grouped in bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $350,000
or more.
Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Mexico may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.


﻿- 11 -
Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Works  estimated  to  cost  the equivalent of    less  than
$10,000,000 per contract but more than $350,000 may be procured
under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding,
advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to
the Bank. Such procurement shall take place using standard bidding
documents satisfactory to the Bank.
2.    Works estimated to cost the equivalent of $350,000 or less per
contract, up to an aggregate amount of $77,600,000 equivalent, and
goods estimated to cost $150,000 equivalent or less, up to an
aggregate amount of $23,100,000 equivalent, may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations
obtained from at least three suppliers eligible under the
Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Part D:     Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
(a)   With respect to: (i) each contract for works estimated
to cost more than the equivalent of $350,000; (ii) the first three
contracts for works estimated to cost the equivalent of $350,000 or
less; and (iii) each contract for goods procured in accordance with
the procedures set forth in Part A of this Schedule, the procedures
set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines
shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of
the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure
that the two conformed copies of the contract required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be
-furrished to the Bank prior to the making of the first payment out
of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement.


﻿- 12 -
(c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the Loan
Account are to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure.
2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
1.    In order to assist the Guarantor in carrying out the Project,
the Guarantor through FIRCO shall employ consultants whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory
to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the
Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, the
Guarantor, through FIRCO, shall employ such consultants under
contracts using the standard form of contract for consultants'
services issued by the Bank, with such modifications as shall have
been agreed by the Bank. Where no relevant standard contract
documents have been issued by the Bank, the Guarantor shall use
other standard forms agreed with the Bank.
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section,
the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank
review or approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures,
letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts,
shall not apply to: (a) contracts for the employment of consulting
firms estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each; or (b)
contracts for the employment of individuals estimated to cost less
than $50,000 equivalent each, up to an aggregate amount for
contracts with firms and individuals of $48,600,000 equivalent.
However, said exceptions to prior Bank review shall not apply to:
(a) the terms of reference for such contracts; (b) single-source
selection of consulting firms; (c) assignments of a critical nature,
as reasonably determined by the Bank; (d) amendments to contracts
for the employment of consulting firms raising the contract value to
$100,000 equivalent or above; or (e) amendments to contracts for the
employment of individual consultants raising the contract value to
$50,000 equivalent or above.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy of
the original in the archives of the International Bank
for Reconstruction and Development.
FOR SECRETARY


