Document of
THE WORLD BANK
Report No. 18629-MOR
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
FORA
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT EQUAL TO FRF 400.300 MILLION
TO
THE KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
FORA
HEALTH FINANCING AND MANAGEMENI' PROJECT
November 19, 1998
Human Development Sector
Middle East and North Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = MAD
US$1.00 = MAD 9.25
MAD 1.00 = US$0.10
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BAJ          Barnamaj Al Aoulaouiyat Al Ijtimaiya
(Arabic abbreviation of the Social Priorities Program)
CAS          Country Assistance Strategy
CHU          Teaching Hospital (Centre Hospitalier Universitaire)
CNSS         (Caisse Nationale de Securite Sociale)
CNOPS         (Caisse Nationale des Organismes de Prevoyance Sociale)
CON          Consultation
COL          Collaboration
DRC          (Direction de la Reglementation et du Contentieux)
EU           European Union
FP           Family Planning Services
GDP          Gross Domestic Product
GTZ          German Agency for Technical Cooperation
HSDS         Health Sector Development Strategy
ICR          Implementation Completion Report
IGF          (Inspection Ginerale des Finances)-
IMF          International Monetary Fund
IS           Information Sharing
MCH          Maternal and Child Health
MOF          Ministry of Finance
MSC          Multisectoral Steering Committee
MIS          Management Information System
MNSHD        Middle East and North Africa Human Development Sector
MOH          Ministry of Health
NA           Not Applicable or Not Available
NGO          Nongovernmental Organization
NHIS         National Health Insurance System
PAD          Project Appraisal Document
PCD          Project Concept Document
PCU          Project Coordination Unit
PRISS        Health Investment Project (Projet de Rehabilitation et
d 'Investissement dans le Secteur de la Sante)
SEGMA        (Service Etatique Gere de Maniere Autonome)
SIL           Specific Investment Loan
Vice President:      Kernal Dervis
Country Director:    Christian Delvoie
Sector Director:     Jacques Baudouy
Task Team Leader:    Maryse Pierre-Louis



Kingdom of Morocco
Health Financing and Management Project
CONTENTS
Project Financing Data ...................................................1l
A. Project Development Objective ....................................................2
1. Project development objective and key performance indicat:ors ...................2................2
B. Strategic Context ....................................................2
1. Sector-related CAS goal supported by the project ....................................                     ,      .    2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy for development of the Health sector .....2
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices ................................4
C. Project Description Summary .......................5
1. Project components .................5
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project ......................................6
3. Benefits and target population ..........................................................6
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements ..........................................................6
D. Project Rationale ................................................................7
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection ..............................................7
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies ........8
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design .............................................9
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership ....................................................9
5. Value'added of Bank support in this project ............................................................... 10
E. Summary Project Analyses ...............................................................                                         10
1. Economic ...............................................................                                             10
2. Fiscal impact ......................                                                                                 10
3. Technical .....................                                                                                       10
4. Social ...................                                                                          ,                11
5. Enviromnental assessment ........................                                                                    11
6. Participatory approach ............................                                                                      l
F. Sustainability and Risks ............................11
1. Sustainability ...........................                                                                            11
2. Critical risks ...........................                                                                           12
3. Possible controversial aspects ...........................                                                            13



G. Main Loan Conditions .........................   13
1. By Negotiations ..................                                           13
2. By Board presentation ..................                                     13
3. Agreements .............;                                                     13
4. At Negotiations .............                                                13
H. Readiness for Implementation ........................                                14
L Compliance with Bank Policies ........................                                14
Annexes
Annex 1:       Project Design Summary
Annex 2:       Detailed Project Description
Annex 2a:      Organizational Models for the Hospital Network
Annex 2b:      Scenarios regarding the financing mechanisms
Annex 3:       Estimated Project Costs
Annex 4:       Economic Analysis
Annex 5:       Financial Summary
Annex 6:       Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Annex 7:       Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Annex 8:       Documents in the Project File
Annex 9:       Statement of Loans and Credits
Annex 10:      Morocco at a Glance



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECoNSTRUCTIoN AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIAIION
Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
Human Development Sector
Project Appraisal Documenlt
Kingdom of Morocco
Health Financing and Management Project
Date: November 19, 1998                                                                      [ iO  Draf  [XI i Final
Task Teamn Leader: Maryse Pierre-Louis                   Country Director: Christian Delvoic
Project ID: 5525        l Sector: Health                           POC:
Lending Instrument: SIL                                  PTI:         [ Yes            |[X]| INo
Project Financing Data                   [xl Loan         [   Credit                  [ Other [Specifyl
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount: FRF 400,300,000.00 (US$66.0 million equivalent)
Proposed Terms:                            [1   Multicurrency           [XI]          Single currency
Grace period (years): 5 years      [XI  Variable                [             Fixed  [X PIBOR based
Years to maturity: 20 years                                                                            l
Commitment fee: 0.75%                         _
Financing plan (US$m):
Source                                     Local                Foreign       Total
Government                                                            9.7                  0.4           10.1
Cofmanciers  European Commission                                      0.0                  0.0           0.0
IBRD/IDA                                                             26.0                  40.0          66.0
Other (specify)                                          ____l
TotalOther (specify)                                                 35.7                  40.4         76.1
Other (specify)                                                                        _
Borrower: Government of Morocco (Ministry of Finance)
Guarantor: N/A
Responsible agency(ies): Ministry of Public Health (MOH)
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):         1999    |     2000          2001          2002        2003
Annual   _1.6             9.9  ___ 18.6               13.6        22.3
Cumulative      1.6     1        11.5      30.1          43.7         66.0
Expected effectiveness date: 09/01/98                                    Closing date: 06/30/2003



Page 2
A: Project Development Objective
I. Project development objectives and key performance indicators (see Annex l; see Annex 2forprojectscope):
The project would support hospital and Ministry of Health (MOH) management reforms in the context of the Health
Sector Strategy and of the new Regionalization Law in conjunction with the development of new financing mechanisms.
The project objectives are:
(a)    To improve the efficiency and the quality of care in project (public) hospitals (14) by strengthening strategic
planning capacity and introducing organizational and management tools and quality control mechanisms.
(b)    To mobilize additional resources, while preserving equity, by assisting the government in introducing new
financing mechanisms.
(c)    To strengthen MOH's policy formulation and sector management capacity by assisting MOH in adjusting and
performing its mandate in the context of the Regionalization Law and providing MOH administrative staff with
the management tools and skills required.
The project includes three closely linked and interdependent components: (a) strengthening hospital management
and improving the quality of hospital services; (b) improving sector financing; and (c) strengthening policy and
decision making capacity.
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goals supported by the project:
CAS document number: 16219-MOR, dated January 8, 1997
CAS strategic objectives supported by the project include:
(i)    Establishment of a firm basis for sustained improvement in economic and social performance.
(ii)   Implementation of an ambitious social development agenda addressing health sector efficiency and inequity and
consequent social disparities.
(iii)   Rationalizing public expenditures and mobilizing domestic savings for investment.
Preparation and implementation of the proposed project is part of the CAS base case lending scenario.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategyfor development of the health sector:
a) Sector Issues:
Background: Over the past three decades, Morocco made steady progress in the health sector life expectancy at birth
increased by more than 50%, the infant mortality rate dropped by a third, national immunization programs and vigorous
campaigns increased coverage from 5% in the early 1970s to approximately 86% today, and the supply of infrastructure
and services increased sharply. The population:physician ratio dropped by three times, nurses and paramedical staff
increased by thirty times, and the number of functional hospital beds doubled. Regional disparities in the availability of
both hospital and ambulatory services remain. In addition, private sector service provision is minimal. Although 50% of
physicians are in the private sector, most are concentrated in Rabat and Casablanca. The Government has not yet
developed a comprehensive incentive framework to encourage private or public physicians to settle in rural areas. The
public sector provides the majority of services in urban and rural areas. Provision of services by the private sector is done
through 192 clinics (representing 18% of the country's bed capacity) and 3,461 medical offices (for office visits,
radiology and laboratory exams). Low physical access and poor quality of services, combined with limited awareness and
education among the population result in low and disparate social indicators. The Basic Health Project/BAJ is helping the
Government to address poor basic health conditions in the thirteen poorest provinces. Major sector issues include
underfunded health care, inefficiency of the health system, inequity and insufficient coverage of the poor, weak
management capacity, and require a complete restructuring of the sector in the medium to long term.
Underfunded Health Care. The Moroccan health care system is underfunded and the population is undercovered by
insurance. Government budgetary allocations for health are amnong the lowest compared to countries with similar level of
per-capita income. In 1997, total health expenditures amounted to about 4.0% of GDP and per capita health spending, at



Page 3
about US$40, was less than half that in neighboring Tunisia. Private household contributions in 1996 accounted for 44%
of total recurrent health expenditures and donor funds for barely 2%. Only about 15% of the population is covered by
insurance of any kind, with 11% of the population covered by public schemes (for people employed in the formal sector)
and 4% covered by twenty private companies. The need for a viable financing strategy aimed at increasing resource
mobilization is thus urgent, especially in the context of macroeconomic constraints which will limit increases in
government allocations, and of an aging population for which health care is becoming more expensive.
Inefficiency of the Health System. The hospital network receives approxirmately 56% of public resources devoted to
health (based on 1997-98 budget). It provides poor services and experiences endemic shortages of drugs, equipment, and
qualified personnel. Partly as a result, the occupancy rate in public hospitals is 56%, compared to at least 80% in the
private sector. While administrative and personnel related recurrent expenditures account for 72% of the MOH budget,
public spending for health promotion, hygitne and disease prevention where marginal gains from public spending are
often the highest, amounts to less than 1% (financing of these activities is done through the investrnent budget where it
represents 23% of this budget).
Inequity and Insufficient Coverage of the Poor. Large disparities in both health status and access to services prevail
between geographic areas and income groups. The allocation of resources discriminates against poorer rural areas since
the ambulatory network which is the primary means of delivery in rural areas accounts for less than 30% of MOH
recurrent budget. Finally, in both rural and urban areas, access to modem health care and the willingness to seek it are
much higher in households with higher income.
Weak Management Capacity. The quality of care and effectiveness of the health system are constrained by weak
management capacity. Institutional roles and responsibilities for management and decision-making are both poorly
defined and overly centralized. This is especially so with regard to facility management and allocation of resources.
Facility managers, who are often the best placed to make informed decisions on the optimal use of resources, have
insufficient authority nor the necessary skills to perforrn key management functions. Basic skills in planning,
programming and budgeting are lacking throughout the health system. Finally, the lack of policy framework and planning
and the absence of reliable data for decision-making inhibit sector effectiveness further. The MOH has to ensure that the
decentralization of competencies and functions is consistent with the newRegionalization Law and that facility autonomy
will increase hospital effectiveness. This will require a specific internal articulation ofMOH's own role and careful
coordination with its regional and facility counterparts (governors, regional medical officers and hospital directors).
Effective performance by MOH of its own role in this new regime will also require improvement of its own institutional
capacity.
Government Strategy. This project seeks to support the Government's effort to implement an articulated and sustainable
Social Development Strategy. As part of project preparation, a Health Sector Strategy has been developed (it will be
finalized by negotiations). It will translate broad orientations into action plans and prospective resource allocation within
the next five years. The objectives of this strategy are centered around two themes: (i) strengthen and expand preventive
and basic curative care, especially targeted at women and children in rural areas; and (ii) carry out structural reforms to
ensure the sustainability of the first theme. The project, by improving hospital efficiency and implementing new health
financing strategies will address the second theme directly. In the long term, by facilitating the reallocation of resources
toward basic health care, the project will address the first theme. A logical framework of the sector strategy was agreed
upon during appraisal. Long-term orientations include increasing the private sector role in delivery of services from its
current share of less than 10% and to establish private institutional financing mechanisms to supplement the public
institutional sources which characterize the system today.



Page 4
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices to be made:
The proposed project would address the following issues in the context of at broad reform program being developed by the:
Government and supported by the Bank, as part of its sector strategy.
(i) Inefficiency. This issue will be addressed through improvements in facility level and central management information
systems, hospital organization management, technical capacities of hospital personnel and the rationalization of future
hospital investments and maintenance. Contracting arrangements between MOH and hospitals based on agreed
performance indicators are also expected to have a significant impact on efficiency.
(ii) Underfunded Health Care. This issue will be addressed by assisting the government in introducing a reform of current
financing mechanisms including: development and implementation of a National Health Insurance Scheme (NEIS) with
mandatory enrollment for employees of the-ormal public and private sector; testing mechanisms aimed at better targeting
and subsidizing the poor including development of a Solidarity Fund to cover indigent patients, and the adjustnent of fee
schedules in public hospitals.
(iii) Weak Institutional Capacity. This issue will be addressed through: the definition of the MOH mandate within the
context of the Regionalization Law; forrnulation and institutionalization of a National Health Account system, which is an
important tool for policy analysis and formulation; definition and establishment of mechanisms and procedures for human
resource planning, inter-regional coordination, and allocations of resources, and information systems to implement,
monitor and adjust sector strategy on a continuous basis; the definition of mechanisms and procedures to link regional and
local authorities (i.e. Governors and local communes) to the decision-making process within the context of the
Regionalization Law; the definition of a package of cost-effective services; and the strengthening of MOH monitoring and
evaluation tools.
(iv) Low Quality. This issue will be addressed through improving the integration of services within selected hospitals;
physical rehabilitation of priority facilities; replacement of priority equipment; provision of technical training to hospital
medical and paramedical staff; and the definition and implementation of quality control mechanisms and hospital
management criteria focusing on quality.
(v) Inequity. Improvement in the quality of services provided in hospitals is expected to give the poor a better chance to
benefit from quality care. Introduction of a fund to remunerate hospitals for care provided now at no charge to indigents
(the Solidarity Fund) will increase hospital resources and decrease the prevalence of operational deficits in facilities,
thereby contributing to improvements in the quality of care. As the reform is implemented, cost control in the hospital
sector and the improvement in hospital efficiency will allow the Government to allocate more resources to basic care in
rural areas.
The project focuses on rationalization of the public hospital sector. Because the hospital sector consumes the bulk of
sector resources, efficiency gains would contribute (along with the introduction of financing and management
mechanisms) not only to overall system sustainability but would also facilitate the reallocation of resources toward basic
services. The project would focus on. the public sector because there is virtually no private sector health provision in rural
areas and most major cities (most of the private sector is concentrated in the areas of Rabat and Casablanca). The project
also focuses on health financing mechanisms in an effort to mobilize additional resources, improve resource allocation
and sustain sector gains.



Page 5
C: Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2for a detailed description and Annex 3for a detailed cost breakdown):
Cost
Including
Contin-             Bank
gencies    % of   Financing   % Bank
Component                Category  (IUS$m)    Total   (US$m)   Financing
Component 1: Strengthening Hospital     Policy;     72.2      94.8      62.5       86.6
Management and Improving Service        Capacity
Quality through: a technical assistance and   Building;
training program, reorganization of hospitals, Physical
development of quality control mechanisms,
physical rehabilitation and equipment and
provision of material and support for
implementing activities.
Component 2: Improving Health Sector    Policy,      2.1       2.8       1.7       80.4
Financing through a technical assistance and  Capacity
training program to assist the Government in  Building
introducing a mandatory health insurance for
the formal sector employees and a solidarity
scheme for indigents and through operational
support for these activities (materials,
workshops, information campaigns, surveys,
etc.).
Component 3: Strengthening Policy and    Capacity    1.8       2.4       1.8       99.1
Decision-Making Capacities through      Building
technical assistance and training to assist
MOH in implementing its sector strategy and
through adjust to the regionalization law and
support for organizing workshops aimed at
building consensus among key stakeholders
and at carrying out surveys and analyses.
Total    76.1     100.0      66.0      86.7



Page 6
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
(a)    Management and Financial Autonomy of hospitals;
(b)   Introduction of Financing Mechanisms aimed at mobilizing resources and at promoting equity;
(c)    The implementation of the Regionalization Law (promulgated in April 1997) in the Health Sector.
3. Benefits and target population:
The project would provide the following benefits:
- At the local level:
(i) improved services in selected hospitals will have an impact on the health status of the targeted population
(approximately 7 million people);
(ii) the development of regional hospital development plans would result in a better coordination of hospital and basic
healthcare and ensure a more efficient use of resources;
- At the National level:
(i) the project will initiate the process of hospital reforms which will be expanded nationwide;
(ii) the development and implementation of new financing mechanisms will increase equity and mobilize additional
resources for the sector;
(iii) the project will result in stronger institutional capacity at the central level and will improve overall sector
management.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
(a)    Executing agency: The MOH Directorate of Hospital and Ambulatory Care (DHSA), the regional and provincial
delegations as well as the hospital directors at the regional and provincial level, will have primary implementation
responsibility. The Directorates of Equipment and Maintenance (DEM), Human Resources (DRH), will oversee
specific investments needed to carry out the project activities, such as civil works, training, maintenance
programs, etc.
(b)    Project coordination and management: The Project Coordination Unit (PCU) will be responsible for overall
coordination of all project activities. The MOH has experience in implementing Bank financed projects, and is
currently implementing the Health Sector Investment Project and the Basic Health Project/BAJ. However,
significant changes are needed in the PCU in light of the complex nature of the proposed project, which involves
a large number of high level actors within and outside MOH and will require dynamic and pro-active project
management. MOH's project management capacities have been improved under the two ongoing Bank financed
projects. Accountants have been recruited and a computerized system to monitorDPRF's financial management
was established. The feasibility of integrating management of the proposed project with this existing system has
been assessed at appraisal. Because the PCU will need a director with leadership qualities and strong
management skills, the Bank's non objection will be needed for the recruitment of this person based on agreed
terms of reference. The project manager and the PCU staff will be recruited from the civil service pool and their
performance will be assessed annually. Therefore, sustainability of the PCU is not an issue. By relocating the
PCU in the office of the MOH Secretary General, it will have authority to deal with the large number of key
players involved within and outside MOH.
(c)    Project oversight (policy guidance, etc.): The Ministry of Health will organize regular and frequent meetings
together with CNSS, CNOPS, Ministries of Social Affairs, of Interior, of Finances, representatives of
Associations of Pharmacists and Physicians, private insurers and of regional health directorates. The Bank will
be entitled to consult the minutes of these meetings as necessary and to request a meeting with the above-



Page 7
mentioned agencies, during supervision missions as it sees fit. Furthermore, regular and frequent meetings will
take place with the main directorates involved in the project (DPRF, DHSA, DRH, DRC, DEM).
(d)    Accounting, financial reporting and auditing arrangements: The PCU will be responsible for the preparation of
financial statements, including a current and cumulative Summary of Sources (IBRD loan, EU Grant and
Government funds) and Uses of funds by project component and subcomponent and by categories of
expenditures (Works, Goods, Consultant services). Project accounts will be audited annually by IGF. The
financial management of the project will be handled by the unit currently in charge of the implementation of the
two ongoing Bank-financed projects (LN 3171-MOR and LN 4025-MOR). During the preparation mission in
March 1997, a financial assessment of this unit was carried out by a financial management specialist. This
assessment concluded that: (a) internal controls were acceptable overall but accounting and management
information systems should be stre,igthened; and, (b) procurement and monitoring functions performed by the
unit should be improved. Further to this assessment the following actions have been taken: (a) two accountants
have been recruited to follow up on expenses, and disbursements categories; (b) a staff of the unit has been
specifically designated to follow up on procurement and contracts management; (c) a new computerized system
to facilitate financial management and monitoring is being introduced. In order to monitor expenses related to the
projects, the purchase of this software to record data and generate financial statements is underway and the
overall system should be operational, prior to loan effectiveness; (d) the elaboration of semi-annual reports by the
unit has been agreed upon; and, (e) on-the-job and formal training of personnel has been agreed upon. Finally,
the project unit will be headed by a high caliber professional with a strong profile in project and financial
management.
(e)    Monitoring and evaluation arrangements: The PCU will submit semi-annual technical and financial progress
reports on the three project components. The Bank will meet twice a year with the PCU and the major
stakeholders involved in the reforms as agreed upon in para 4 (c). An early project implementation review is
scheduled during the first 18 months of implementation in order to assess the impact of the upcoming political
changes on the pace of project implementation and check if any substantive modification in implementation
arrangements have occurred and propose corrective actions.
(f)    The project's implementation schedule includes a transition phase of 24 months. During this phase, the hospital
reform component activities will be introduced in five hospitals (Hopital Hassan II d'Agadir, H6pital de Beni-
Mellal, Hopital Mohamed V de Meknes, Hopital Mohamed V de Safi, Hbpital Hassan II de Settat), in order to
allow the system to adjust to the proposed changes. During the first year of this phase, agreements presented in
para G3, page 13 will have to be met.
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection: (detailed scenarios regarding the financing mechanisms are
presented in annex 2b)
Several alternatives were considered with respect to the scope of the proposed reforms, as follows:
(a)    Develop universal insurance coverage. With present economic conclitions and the limited adaptive capacity of
the Moroccan health system, this alternative was rejected as not affordable nor manageable for the time being.
Formal public and private sector workers will be included in the mandatory health insurance scheme to be
developed under the project while the Solidarity scheme will address insurance coverage of the absolute poor.
Extending coverage to the rest of the population will be addressed at a later date.
(b)   Include civil service reforms and broader participation of the private sector in service provision. The prevailing
political economy is not conducive to extensive civil service reforms. During the next fiscal year, the Bank will
finalize an Economic Memorandum focusing on the role of the State in Morocco. Discussion of the
Memorandum's conclusions with national authorities will serve as a preparatory step for civil service reforms in
the health sector. Likewise, increasing the share of private provision in rural areas will require development by
the Government of a comprehensive incentive framework to stimulate rural development.



Page 8
(c)   Incorporate more targeted programs to address absolute poverty in the rural sector. The Bank is covering
important aspects of these programs through the Social Priorities Program (which includes a Basic Health Project,
a Basic Education Project and a National Promotion Project) in the 13 poorest provinces of the country. A follow-
up program is currently being discussed with the Government, contingent upon the successful implementation of
the BAJ program. The long-term sustainability of these programs in the rural sector depends on improving the
efficiency of the hospital sector which consumes a sizable portion of public resources and on mobilizing
additional resources through new health financing mechanisms. Monitoring of public expenditures prograns to
assess shifts in reallocation of resources towards basic health services and the rural poor will be carried out as
part of the Bank's macro-economic program.
2. Major related projectsfinanced by the Ba_k and/or other development agencies (completed, ongoing and planned):
Latest Forn 590
Ratings
(Bank-financed
Sector Issue                                  Project                 projects only)
Bank-financed                                                                             IP      DO
Improve primary health care program in three provinces on  Health Sector Development Project, Loan
a pilot basis                                     no 2572-MOR (US$ 28.8 M* /1986-93)
Reestablish sustainable health program in the country and   Health Investment ProjectlPRISS, Loan n°  S  S
strengthen service management                     3171-MOR (US$ 104 M, closing date:
December 1998)
In the 14 poorest provinces targeted by the project:  Basic Health Project, Loan n° 4025-MOR  S    S
increase access to essential curative care from 47% to 60%   (effectiveness: December 1996)
of targeted population; reduce maternal and neonatal
mortality by increasing prenatal visits from 28% to 50%;
and assisted deliveries in a medical setting from 18% to
30%. Nationwide: maintain the activities of priority public
health programs.
Other development agencies
Provide technical assistance and support overseas training   World Health Organization (every two
programs                                          years, US$ 3 M)
Strengthen maternal and child health and family planning   United Nations Fund for Population
services (MCH/FP)                                 Activities (1992-96; US$ 8 M); (1998-
Reproductive health in 12 provinces               2001; USS 7.5 M)
Strengthen MCH services                           United Nations Children's Fund (1992-96;
US$ 5 M)
Basic health (7 provinces)                        (1997-2000; US$ I M regular (resources)
Hospital maintenance                              UNDP (1995-99) US$ 293,210
STD/AIDS in 10 provinces (1997-2001)              UNPD (1997-2201) US$ 416,736
Strengthen FP services in the northern part of the country   EU 1994-97 (2,450,000 ECU)
Strengthen FP services in post partum             EU 600,000 ECU
STD/AIDS in 15 provinces                          EU (1996-2000) 1 M ECU
Strengthen MCH and neonatal services              EU (1993-96) 9 M ECU
FP and child survival                              USAID (1993-99) US$ 52 M
Strengthen MCH/FP services in the province of Essaouira   GTZ (1996-97) DH 4 M
* M = millions;             Source: MOH, 1997
Ratings IP/DO (Implementation progress/development objectives): HS (Highly satisfactory), S (Satisfactory),
U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly unsatisfactory)



Page 9
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project desig a:
The Health Development Project ICR, the ongoing Health Sector Investment Project and Basic Health Project/BAJ
emphasize the need to address the following issues:
(a)    Early involvement of the Ministry of Finance. Because of past MC)F reluctance to borrow for social sector
projects, this is a critical success factor. MOF has been regularly brieled on proposecd project activities from the
very beginning of project preparation and has expressed its appreciation of being informed and consulted through
its participation in the various committees established during project preparation.
(b)    The degree of autonomy invested-in middle management (regional medical officers and hospital directors).
Granting hospitals effective autonomy in budget management and personnel decisions through a contracting
system with central MOH based on agreed outputs will be an important step to enable effective decision-making
by middle level managers and improve quality and efficiency of the hospital system.
(c)    Lack of qualified personnel. The project will address this issue through a core training program of staff in
management and technical areas and provision of technical assistance for policy analysis, formulation and
decision-making. A major goal of technical assistance will be to transfer competence in these areas to MOH staff.
Redeployment of staff in hospitals selected under the project will also be an important achievement.
(d)    Service quality. Emphasis has traditionally been given to improlting physical structures rather than the
organization of service delivery, training and motivation of personnel, and monitoring and evaluation of services.
While the proposed project will improve physical structures, it w[ll also stress these quality enhancement
techniques and methods.
(e)    System efficiency. Granting in the long run, effective autonomy to hospitals concurrently with improving their
management and introducing contracting arrangements between MOEI and hospitals will significantly increase
operational efficiency.
(f)    Resource Mobilization and Financial sustainability of the system. The project will develop and implement
financing mechanisms and update public hospital fee schedules to reflect actual costs. Over time, these activities
will help mobilize additional resources, thereby facilitating resource reallocation toward basic health services.
This will enable sector gains to be sustained.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
(a)    Improving sector efficiency and financing and improving the quality of services are the central themes of all
recent MOH strategic documents.
(b)    Design of a new insurance scheme is a key element of major speeches delivered by the King. A Committee for
Economic and Social Dialogue was created by the Government with the mandate to study this issue and make
recommendations for implementation. A draft law on health insurance, consistent with the project concept, has
already been approved by the former Government Council but has yet lto be validated by the new one.
c)    Increasing hospital autonomy is an important principle supported by the Government. This project will assist the
Government to define the precise degree and nature of autonomy to be granted.
(d)    The Ministry of Finance has offered strong support to the project, which is overdue in its opinion. The project
also enjoys strong media support and has benefited from extensive and positive coverage during pre-appraisal.
(e)    All major stakeholders acknowledge that the upcoming Government changes are not likely to affect new
orientations and trends in the sector given the acuity of the issues, but recognize that such changes may affect the
pace of reform implementation.



Page 10
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The Bank has played a leading role in promoting the Government's social strategy and in stimulating international support
for social sector reform. The proposed project supports reforrns designed to improve overall efficiency and sustainability.
The Bank's comparative advantage in assisting the Government to define and implement broadsectoral reforms derives
from the fact that they are linked to macroeconomic reforms also supported by the Bank. The Bank's role in promoting
institutional changes is essential since these changes are crucial in facilitating, over time, access of the poor to health
services.
E: Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic (supported by Annex 4):
The proposed project offers the authorities a unique opportunity to implement specific actions to support the Health
Sector Development Strategy (HSDS). Implementation of the project's three components concurrently will improve
system efficiency by gradually increasing allocations to cost effective interventions, upgrade the human capital base and
improve labor productivity as a result of raising the health status of the population; in the longer term, the project will
alleviate poverty by freeing more public resources for the poorest segment of the population in rural areas. Overtime, the
project is expected to have a positive impact on domestic savings through public expenditure rationalization and increased
financial reserves for contractual savings institutions such as insurance firms.
2. Fiscal impact:
As compared to current public expenditure trends, the project is expected to reduce the medium-term fiscal burden as
alternative financing mechanisms are developed. This, in turn, would slow down the rate of increase of health
expenditures at the household level. With total public health expenditures at only 1.3% of GDP today, Morocco's
performance over the next five years will likely fall short of the 2.5% mark where comparable countries such as Tunisia
stands currently; reaching that goal in the next decade would be a remarkable achievement. If the financial mechanisms
proposed under the project are implemented on schedule, it is estimated that total public expenditures could average a
maximum of 2% of GDP. Estimated government counterpart funds average some 3.2% of MOH capital outlays over the
next five years; and recurrent costs are marginal as compared to MOH recurrent budget (less than 0.1% or approximately
MAD 1.2 million per year). These are not expected to be a major fiscal burden. Financing mechanisms included in the
project will allow increases in allocations for recurrent and maintenance budgets. Project costs are estimated at US$76.1
million (including US$4.5 million of import duties and taxes). Project financing would consist of a Batik loan of US$66
million (87% of project costs) and Government contribution of US$10.1 million equivalent which includes a small portion
of foreign expenditures, local costs and taxes. A grant in the amount of US$20 million will be provided through parallel
financing by the European Union.
3. Technical:
The project is based on studies and analyses carried out before and during project preparation. High level international
and local consultants have been recruited to help MOH define its sector strategy for the next five years and project
activities to help implement and sustain the strategy. Project design is consistent with the issues identified and integrates
lessons learned from past and ongoing projects. Project preparation has mobilized extensive local participation from
major stakeholders. It has also mobilized high level international technical assistance financed by a PHRD and other trust
funds.



Page I 1
4. Social:
If the hospital and financing reforms are successfully implemented, the project is expected to have a long term significant
impact on improving social equity through better allocation and targeting of reso=rces between regions of the country and
between levels of care, thus increasing access of the poor to health care. Beneficiary assessments will be carried out to
monitor the impact of project activities.
5. Environmental assessment:  Environmental Category    []A   [X] B (] C
The project is rated B to conform to new Bank guidelines on enviromnent. The project will rehabilitate 11 hospitals (out
of 106 in the country and no new construction is envisaged). Master plans to be prepared for hospital rehabilitation will
include appropriate structures and procedAures for waste disposal and treatment. During the first phase of project
implementation, a limited environmental analysis will be carried out for each hospital selected under the project. this
analysis will: (a) define the new procedures for each hospital (b) identify the person responsible for monitoring the plan;
(c) introduce new regulations and enviromnental guidelines; and (d) recommend investments when needed for
improvement of hospital waste disposal. Furthermore, the introduction of maintenance and quality standards in hospital
operations and training for relevant hospital staff is expected to decrease any potential environmental impact. The
regional health authorities which are about to be created in the context of the regionalization law, will have the
responsibilities for overseeing the implementation of the conclusion of the enviromnental analysis.
6. Participatory approach
|_____ _  Preparation            Implementation           Operation
Beneficiaries & community         COL                      COL                      COL
groups
Intermediary NGOs            IS                      IS                       IS
Academic institutions        COL                      CON                      CON
Local government          COL                      COL                      COL
Other donors          COL                      COL                       IS
Private Sector Other        COL                      CON                      CON
Multisectoral working groups, representing major stakeholders were established during project preparation. Beneficiary
assessments in selected project areas will be carried out at the beginning, mid-term and end of the project to assess client
satisfaction in order to improve hospital administrative performance and services.
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability (see also page 9 para. E2):
Project financing of incremental recurrent expenditures will help establish the transition plan for hospital autonomy
during implementation and the management of the PCU. By addressing efficiency, financing and core institutional issues,
the project will help ensure long run sustainability of the health system gains made under the project.



Page 12
2. Critical Risks:
Risk
Risk                Rating                 Risk Minimization Measure
Project    Government may not be able to             Participation of all key players in project preparation;
outputs to  implement proposed reforms in view       information sharing programs aimed at different market
develop-  of opposition from interest groups         segments, staff training to elicit good understanding and
ment      - physicians, central managers        S    support for reforms; transition plan to implement reforms on
objecti-   - regional and hospital managers,   M     an incremental basis.
ves       public/private insurance, local
governments, beneficiaries)
Expected change in Government ma     M     Early  involvement  in  project preparation  of  local
slow implementation of reforms             stakeholders, the private sector and academic institutions, and
media briefings may mitigate this risk. Discussion of sector
strategy and support of this strategy by the donor community
may decrease the risk of a drastic change in the course of
actions.
An early implementation review will assess this situation.
Lack of mechanisms for effective     S    An agreement on coordination mechanisms between MOH,
decision-making among ky         .CNSS, CNOPS, Ministry of Finance, other ministries and
stakeholders during the                    agencies involved, was reached at negotiations and will
implementation phase of reforms.           mitigate this risk.
Project    Limited experience and skills of local  M  Extensive training and technical assistance, as well as an
compo-    managers (regions and hospitals) in         adequate monitoring and support program from the central
nents to    exercising authority may slow the pace    Ministry will be part of the reform package.
outputs    of introducing new management
procedures and may lead to poor
performance.
Lack of incentives among civil service    M  Development of relevant training programs, performance
physicians to be cost -conscious in        indicators, changing provider payment mechanisms and
utilizing existing resources.              incentive programs based on measurable outcomes may
mitigate this risk.
Implementation of the hospital       M     Introduction of management and administrative procedures
rehabilitation program without             will guide the implementation of the rehabilitation program.
concurrent implementation of new           Dated covenant during the transition addresses this risk.
management procedures.
Defing financing mechanisms for the    s    Addressing this risk requires coordination with the macro-
Defining                       ~~~~~~~economic team workcing on Morocco.
poor may be delayed because this may
require tackling the issue of budget
subsidies.
Despite Government commitmnent to    H     In the  context of the macro-economic dialogue, the
this question, the Mandatory Insurance     Government had pledged to submit by the end of 1998, a
detailed timetable for the development and implementation of
health financing mechanisms including health insurance.
Overall                                      S
Risk
Rating
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)



Page 13
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
Design and implementation of the health financing mechanisms (mandatory health insurance, criteria for targeting the
poor, increasing hospital fees to reflect actual costs), staff redeployment, and redistribution of roles between the central
and regional administration of MOH may cause resistance from various stakeholders who may feel threatened by the
implementation of these measures.
G: Main Loan Conditions
I. At Negotiations, agreement was reached on:
(i)    The terms of reference and on the profile of the PCU Manager and on the organizational chart of the PCU.
(ii)    Key project indicators.
(iii)   Mechanisms to ensure policy oversight of the project.
(iv)   Hospitals which will be targeted during the transition phase (5 hospitals).
(v)    Staffing of project hospitals was submitted.
(vi)   Agreement was reached (a) on the strengthening of the Directorate of Planning and Financial resources in order
to help it fulfill its new and difficult mandate; (b) on the strengthening of the directorate of hospital and
ambulatory care. In this context, the Government (through MOH) has agreed to ensure that a technical audit of
DPRF, DHSA, and DRC takes place as soon as possible at the beginning of project implementation. MOH will
take the means to implement the recommendations of such audit during project duration.
2. By Board Presentation
(i)    Transfer of the PCU to the Secretary General's office completed.
(ii)   PCU operational and PCU manager recruited.
(iii)   Submission to the Bank of a Letter of Sector Policy which summarizes the objectives, main actions, timetable and
key indicators of the sector strategy.
3. Agreements
During appraisal, agreement was reached that:
(i)   the rehabilitation and equipment of hospitals will concentrate on general hospitals and will exclude teaching
hospitals (CHUs);
(ii)   budgetary allocations to hospitals will be based on an action plan with specific performance indicators. These
action plans will be binding agreements between the central/regional ministry and hospitals, once the
regionalization law is operationalized;
(iii)  the following activities will precede physical rehabilitation and equipment of project hospitals: (a) reinforcement
of the SEGMA status of project hospitals; (b) adoption of the law defining public provision of health care (health
map); (c) personnel deployment plans in project hospitals; (d) elaboration of the hospital development plan; (e)
elaboration of plans defining the public provision of health care in the regions selected; (f) elaboration of hospital
master plans; (g) adoption of hospital waste management plans; and (h) introduction of management tools within
selected hospitals. Activities (a) to (g) will be completed at the latest, twenty-four months after the signature of
the loan; activity (h) one year after the signature of the loan;
(iv)   at the end of the transition phase (page 6, para. f) a stocktaking mission will evaluate the implementation of
scheduled activities during this phase. Conclusions of this stocktaking mission will condition decisions to
proceed with the rehabilitation and equipment of the remaining hospitals under the project.



Page 14
HE Readiness for Implementation
Detailed implementation plans per component and a transition plan have been prepared.
L Compliance with Bank Policies
[x]  This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
[signature]
Task Team Leader:    M     .V OAJ;     
[signature]
Sector Director:    Jacques Baudou
[signature]
Country Director:    Christian Delvoie



Annex I
Page 1 of 2
LIST OF MONITORING INDICATORS FOR THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE
HEALTH FINANCING AND MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Objectives/Activities                          Selected Indicators                   Base value    Target value    Data collection and source
(1997)
A. PROJECT DEVELOPMENT OJECTIVES
> Percentage of personnel adequately trained and redeployed  -           100%      - ARH
Improve the efficiency and quality  in project hospitals.                                                            - S. and mid-term review
of care in project hospitals     >   Clients rate of satisfaction.                            *                      - S
>   Personnel rate of satisfaction.                          *             *
-  Mobilize additional resources     D- % revenue increase compared to 97/98.                     *             *        - FRH
>- % cost recovery increase in billing of patients covered by an  *        *       - FRH
insurance or able to pay ( to be determined at implementation).
-  Strengthen MOH policy             > % of operating budget (excluding salaries) allocated to basic
formulation and sector           health care network compared to overall MOH budget.         7%            17%       - Review of annual budgets
management capacity              > % of operating budget (excluding salaries) allocated to
hospital network compared to overall MOH budget.           77%           70%       - Review of annual budgets
> % of operating budget (excluding salaries) allocated to
administration                                              7%            5%       - Review of annual budgets
> conmmitment and issuance rates of investment budget.
B. Project Output
100%      - ARH
-  Management functions introduced   > Number of managers trained.                                             0%        - ARH/ASS
in project hospitals (defined    > Percentage of shortage of drugs.                                          -       - Decision made regarding
guidelines and data for planning,   > Accountability of project hospital managers.                                   delegation of signature
budgeting, managemert of supplies                                                                            -       - Introduction of MIS
and personnel, recruitment of    > Establishment of management information systems (MIS).                            - Annual program budgets for the
managers, creation of boards     > Annual transfer of resources from program budgets defined                         14 project hospitals.
for the 14 project hospitals.                                                                               __.
-  Maintenance plans established in    > Percentage of recorded breakdowns of equipment.                   Reduction in  - ARM/ASS
project hospitals.                                                                                       frequency
-  Improve occupancy rate of project  > Average occupancy rate (1).                              59%           70%       - ARM/ASS
hospitals.



Annex I
Page 2 of 2
Objectives/Activities                          Selected Indicators                    Base value    Target value     Data collection and source
-  Definition of regional MOII in the   > Implementation of regional structures (effective                                - Regional MOII structures
context of the regionalization law.   decentralization of functions at the regional level).                           Operational
> Delineation of functions between central and regional MOH.
-  Data and management tools used    D Pattern of inter-regional allocation of resources.                                 -National health accounts
for decision-making.                                                                                                  elaborated by second year of
project implementation.
Gradual development of health    > Expansion of coverage from 15% to 30% of population.                               - Surveys and analysis
insurance.                                                                                                           - Elaboration and implementation
6     timetable prepared.
Gradual development of           > Increase of public hospitals revenues.                                             - Surveys and analysis.
financing mechanisms for the
economically vulnerable
* Survey to be undertaken at the start and at the closing of the project.
FRHI   : Financial report of hospitals.
ARH : Annual report of hospitals.
ASS     Analysis of service statistics
S       Surveys.
(1)      Excluding diseases requiring extended length of stay.
MIS      Management information system
P:\hd\morocco\5525\ncg\pad\anxIcng.doc



Annex 2
Page 1 of 12
Kingdom of Morocco: Health Financing and Management Project
Detailed Project Description
Context
1.     This project is the outcome of three years of intensive dialogue with the Government of Morocco
and other national stakeholders'. Informed by a number of studies and analyses and on extensive
technical assistance during preparation, the project represents a major breakthrough in the Moroccan
health sector. Through this project, the Government will seek for the first time to address centralsectoral
issues: inefficiency, resource mobilization, and weak management capacity. As part of project
preparation, the Government is articulating a rational and comprehensive health sector strategy within the
context of a constructive dialogue with the Bank, the European Union and other agencies. The project
takes a sector-wide approach and should have a significant impact on the long term sector development.
The project would be the first in a series of operations to support Govermment reform of the health sector.
Substantial technical assistance will be provided to assist MOH in implementing project activities while
strengthening its capacity. This project complements the Basic Health Project, which became effective in
December 1996 and which addresses the equity of rural access to basic health services.
Objectives and components
2.     The project's main objectives are to improve the efficiency and quality of hospital services in the
public sector, mobilize additional resources, while preserving equity, by introducing new financing
mechanisms and strengthen MOH's policy fonnulation and sector management capacity. Thus, its three
components are:
(a) Strengthening Hospital Management and Improving Service Quality
(b) Improving Sector Financing
(c) Strengthening Policy and Decision-Making Capacity
3.     These components are closely linked and interdependent. New financing mechanisms will have a
significant impact on hospital management, and improved policy and decision-making capacity in the
MOH will be essential to the long term sustainability of hospital management and sector financing
reforms. Given the sensitivity and visibility of many issues the project would address and the actions it
would support, successful implementation will also require significant coordination and consultation
among key stakeholders. A transitional phase to facilitate intensive coordination and consultation and
thus ensure smooth and gradual implementation of these actions is included in the implementation
schedule. In addition, because some crucial issues and actions are beyond MOH's jurisdiction, it was
agreed at negotiations that MOH would organize regular meetings with major stakeholders involved in
the hospital and financing reforms in order to elicit the level of coordination necessary to the success of
these reforms.
4.     The Hospital Management and Service Quality component would be implemented in 14 hospitals
which will be used as examples for similar reforms in other hospitals, thus ensuring hopefully a multiplier
effect. Fourteen general hospitals with a minimum level of performance (technical and administrative)
were selected in the 16 regions of the Kingdom. The decision was made to give a national scope to the
project since a regional anchor for the hospital reforms was needed (multiplier effect). Project hospitals
which are not yet SEGMA will be given this status (see page 12 of PAD). Under the Sector Financing
Ministry of Finance, Interior, Labor, Social Affairs, CNSS, CNOPS, Medical Association.



Annex 2
Page 2 of 12
component, an insurance scheme for poor patients would be tested in those hospitals selected under the
first component. The Sector Financing component will also include development of a National Health
Insurance Scheme (NHS) with mandatory enrollment for all public and formal private sector employees.
The NHIS is expected to increase insurance coverage from 15 to 30% of the population over the next five
years and thus to have nationwide impact and visibility. Finally, the Policy and Decision-Making
Capacity component will entail significant changes in the central and regional MOH administration.
Technical assistance for the three components was reduced to the minimum. The bulk of technical
assistance under the hospital component will be financed by the European Commission.
Component 1- Strengthening Hospital Management and Improving Service Quality
Tot,%l Estimated Cost: US$72.2 million
5.     Objectives:
(i) Improve hospital performance by strengthening hospital strategic planning capacity and introducing
organizational and management tools, procedures and information systems needed for decision-making
and resource allocation processes.
(ii) Improve the quality of care in selected hospitals by defining and implementing norms for the
organization and delivery of clinical and other services, establishing quality control mechanisms,
implementing staffing norms and providing training, rehabilitating facilities, and providing equipment.
Current Situation and Issues:
6.     The Hospital Sector. The hospital network includes 106 public hospitals with 25,715 beds (1
public bed per 1060 inhabitants) 170 private clinics and 22 parastatal hospitals and clinics which together
have a capacity of 5,500 beds (in total there is thus I bed per 873 inhabitants). Public hospitals are
categorized by bed capacity and mandate as rural, provincial, regional, or national hospitals. The average
1996 occupancy rate in public hospitals was approximately 56.7%. The legal status of public hospitals
also varies according to categories. Two-thirds of hospitals, hopitaux en regie, depend entirely on
government budget allocations. The remaining third, SEGMA hospitals (services etatiques geres de
maniere autonome), have partial autonomy of financial management. Finally, two teaching hospitals in
Rabat and Casablanca, etablissements publics de sante/EPS, enjoy full autonomy of financial and human
resource management. The project will build on the lessons learned in these teaching hospitals.
7.     Strategic planning processes to define hospital roles within the health system, articulate a strategy
to fulfill this role and define internal operating policies to carry it out are lacking. Important variables are
routinely not considered in current hospital planning exercises, including population andcatchment area,
financial and budget management, and efficiency of services and human resource use.2 Although
decision-making is heavily centralized, hospitals have little contact with the central administration. Nor
do they have the regular contacts with the ambulatory care network or their client populations necessary
to make decisions in either a centralized or autonomous management context.
8.     SEGMA and Regie hospital managers are not accountable to a defined entity and basic
organizational standards are not sufficiently followed. Head physicians are for exampledefacto hospital
managers who often do not report to an oversight Board or any other defined entity. Hospital
organization does not take into account the type and size of facility, workload, or available resources. Job
2.  Other crucial variables include access and availability of services, client satisfaction, relevance and quality of
services, and infrastructure and equipment management.



Annex 2
Page 3 of 12
descriptions are not comprehensive and personnel recruitment, which is heavily centralized, is thus not
performed according to pre-established profiles and positions.
9.     The management information system is weak and prevents effective resource management. Most
managers have no idea of the cost of services provided or of equipment required. The system does not
provide managers and head physicians with the information needed to explain hospital operations and
needs to central decision-makers, conduct daily hospital management functions, assess the productivity
and performance of various hospital departments, monitor billing and cost data, or assess the quality of
care provided. Thus, the system is an inadequate decision-making tool for effectively allocating and using
resources. In addition, appropriate criteria to determine resource needs are neither established nor
applied. Resource allocation is therefore a routinized exercise based on historical budgeting and is not
responsive to facility needs.
10.   In 1989 the Government granted greater financial autonomny to nine hospitals (which became
SEGMA hospitals) in order to alleviate the burden of hospitals on the Government budget. Autonomous
hospitals retain revenues generated through service provision. A 1993 evaluation of these hospitals
showed that: (a) without authority over personnel decisions or human and financial resource allocation,
the partial financial autonomy granted had a less than optimal effect on facility management; (b) the
system characteristics most antithetical to hospital autonomy are central allocation of resources, and
absence of a deliberate hospital management structure; (c) hospital managers in SEGMA hospitals are
more cost-conscious than those in Regie hospitals; and (d) hospital earned revenues represented one third
of total hospital revenues (including Government subsidies). The 1993 conclusions on cost efficiency
and revenue generation prompted the Government to extend financial autonomy to 38 hospitals. It did not
however adopt those conclusions which found significant changes in hospital management necessary for
the success of financial autonomy.
11.    Numerous problems surround cost recovery for hospital services. First, little effort is made to
recover costs in hospitals and the population considers hospital and basic health care to be free. Second,
despite initial efforts to recover costs in SEGMA hospitals, lack of proper management procedures and
tools has impeded progress. In addition, fornal fee agreements between MOH and CNOPS were not
established concurrently with SEGMA hospitals. Third, obtaining reimbursement for services delivered
to insured patients is frequently difficult. Shortfalls in central allocations to CNOPS created liquidity
problems in the agency, resulting in non-payment to some hospitals for CNOPS patients since 1994.
Finally and most fundamentally, hospital fee schedules are obsolete, do not reflect costs, and are not
standardized. Without some rationalization of costs and fees in the near future significant disparities will
emerge. Despite these difficulties, some dynamic hospital managers made significant progress in cost
recovery, in large part through improving hospital management. Project implementation will build on the
experiences those managers gained.
12.    Financial allocations to hospitals are highly centralized (hospital budgetary allocations are
decided at the central level regardless of needs expressed by hospital directors) and are not guided by
appropriate criteria. The budget process precludes managers from adopting a global approach to facility
management and from having reasonable flexibility in execution. Expenditure planning is thus a more
prominent task for facility managers than is adjusting resource allocation in response to needs and
performance. Finally, principles to promote equitable allocation of resources among regions do not exist,
resulting in significant disparities.
13.    Under the project, rather than basing budget allocations on past trends, agreement was reached at
appraisal that comprehensive annual plans would be developed for each hospital. These plans would



Annex 2
Page 4 of 12
define hospital objectives, taking into account the population served, catchment area, hospital mandate,
main activities to be developed, anticipated revenues under fee schedules progressively upgraded to
reflect costs, and expected outputs. The comprehensive plan will be presented to the central MOH
administration as a proposed contract. Payment to the hospital would be based on these contracts and
would be in the form of a global budget allocation which the hospital manager would allocate internally
in response to facility needs. MOH and hospital management would negotiate the level of payment as
well as the expected outputs through the comprehensive plan. Performance would be monitored by
regional MOH officials.
14.    Service quality is low for a number of reasons. Quality control mechanisms are lacking.
Inadequate physical facilities, equigment and supplies also contribute to poor service quality. Shortages
of drugs and other medical disposables are frequent. Neither equipment nor physical infrastructure
maintenance is performed. Approximately all hospitals 35 to 50 years old need physical rehabilitation.
Therefore, because most hospitals are more than 50 years old they cannot fulfill their mandate. This also
accounts for low hospital utilization rates.
15.    Unbalanced personnel deployment and a pervasive absence of qualified staff also contribute to
the poor quality of services. This results from poor planning, the fact that personnel deployment norms
are not followed, and the fact that deployment decisions are both highly centralized and made on an ad
hoc basis. There is also a significant imbalance in the distribution of personnel across regions and by type
of hospital. Forty-three percent of physicians are concentrated in the provinces of Rabat and Casablanca.
Centralization of authority over personnel deployment leaves hospital managers with no ability to hire or
fire staff in response to facility needs or staff performance, and with little ability to influence staffing
decisions made by central MOH offices. This constraint is a consequence of the law defining public
service in Morocco.
16.    Low personnel productivity also contributes to the poor quality of services and personnel are not
motivated. This issue is aggravated by the fact that private facilities, which pay higher wages than does
the public sector, employ only paramedical personnel who work in the public sector. Public facilities
thus are a place where paramedical personnel go to relax so that they can perform adequately in their well
paid private sector jobs. During appraisal, the Minister of Social Affairs informed the mission of his
intention to redistribute a portion of hospital own revenues among staff, based on their performance.
Such decision will require prior approval by the Ministry of Finance. Finally, training and continuing
education are identified by most hospital managers as technically inadequate to improve staff
productivity.
17.    During appraisal, several models for the reorganization of the hospital network were reviewed.
They are presented in annex 2a. It was agreed that the model which will be selected by the Ministry will
take into account the following criteria: (a) improvement in service quality; (b) economies of scale and
cost-effectiveness; (c) the level of laws and decrees required in order to enforce the model; and (d) the
clear articulation between the primary health care and hospital levels in order to avoid the "hospitalo-
centrism" which would be detrimental to the fulfillment of the objectives of the sector strategy.
Furthermore, the choice of the model should also be conditioned upon the results of the study currently
being implemented by the Government on administration (this study is financed by Kuwait and is carried
out by French and Moroccan firms [HAY/IMEG) and the operationalization of the new regional
directorates.



Annex 2
Page 5 of 12
Activites to befmanced under this component
A. Hospital Management
18.    Activities financed under this sub-component will address the issues mentioned above through a
technical assistance and training program, reorganization of hospitals, and provision of materials
necessary to support these activities. Management activities will be adapted to each category of hospital.
Interventions will be conducted in the following areas 1-III:
I.     Technical assistance will complement the financing provicled by the European Commission and
will be provided to:
*  Formulate hospital strategic plans, taking into accounit hospital mandates,catchment areas,
linlkages with the ambulatory care network, and other factors;
* Implement hospital management procedures which are based on efficiency, quality and cost-
containment criteria. An integrated financial management model to be used by hospitals
will be developed, including a financial management rnanual, guidelines for financial annual
reports, and directives to operationalize good financial management principles;
* Define criteria for allocation of financial resources to hospitals and establish procedures to
link budgetary allocation to needs and expected outputs in hospitals selected under the
project.
* Prepare a comprehensive plan for each hospital, including population served, catchment
area, hospital mandate, main activities to be developed, anticipated revenues under fee
schedules upgraded to reflect costs, and expected outputs to serve as a contract with MOH,
and which will be used for budget transfers to hospitals.
*  Implement inforrnation systems providing technical information on diseases (cases) and
treatment and data needed to assess activity cost and productivity, manage personnel, and
prepare reports for the central MOH administration, hospital boards, managers and
personnel. This will require:
- Improving the institutional context. Administrative organization (policies, norms and
standards, communication and diffusion) and technical organization of the system will
be developed (technology and equipment selection, definition of priorities, etc.);
-  Formulating a technology deployment plan, including the types of information to be
centralized or decentralized, communication networks between hospitals and MOH
regional and central offices, and equipment allocation plans;
- Providing the technical architecture, i.e. purchasing computers and software; and
- Supporting necessary preliminary activities, prior to the system's introduction.
* Formulate maintenance plans for physical infrastructure and equipment, including the
possibility of subcontracting the private sector.
II.    A training program to improve the capacity of personnel, including:
*  Overseas and domestic training in development and implementation of inforrnation systems
for relevant personnel at the central and regional levels, and in hospitals;
* Overseas and domestic training at the National Institute of Health Administration (INAS) in
hospital management, of hospital directors and administrative staff from the selected
hospitals;



Annex 2
Page 6 of 12
* Domestic training of hospital personnel in charge of maintenance and of waste
management;
* Domestic training in stock management for hospital personnel;
The training program amounts to 1,400 man-months of short-term training and 256 man-months of long-
term training.
L.    Technical and administrative organization of services including:
* Development of standardized job descriptions;
* Integration of services to promote efficient use of human resources;
* Separation of hospital admission and billing structures;
*  Establishment of management oversight Boards with internal and extemal membership in
selected hospitals;
* Creation of a specified management position in project hospitals, and recruitment of
hospital managers.
IV.    Support for activities included in Activity areas I to III:
e Intensive supervision by the central and regional levels;
* Workshops with hospital personnel, regional and central administration;
* Provision of necessary material and office equipment.
B. Quality Enhancement
19.    The following activities will be implemented in 14 hospitals:
* Development of quality control mechanisms through:
(iii) strengthening medical Consultative Committees (performance and function) established in
hospitals for medical case management but are not operational through: (a) the establishment
(within these committees), of an Infection Control work group to assess the incidence of
hospital-acquired infections occurring in surgical, obstetrical and medical cases; and (b) the
establishment (within these committees), of a therapeutic workgroup to ensure best use is made
of available drugs and therapeutic agents. The work of these groups and effectiveness will be
evaluated after the first year of project implementation in order to adjust their respective
mandates;
(iv) strengthening the role of the General Inspector's office in order to develop an
accreditation system for hospitals and stimulate competition (an annual hospital performance
report will be published; this is expected to be an incentive for efficiency and for obtaining
investrnent grants);
(v) Formulation of a deployment plan for medical and paramedical personnel, according to
projected needs by category of hospitals.
* Physical rehabilitation and provision of equipment in project hospitals, according to agreed
functional plans by category of hospital. Replacement and purchase of necessary medical
equipment would be based on specific mandates of each hospital. At negotiations, it was
agreed that the following activities will accompany any physical rehabilitation: (a)
reinforcement of the SEGMA status of project hospitals (i.e a profile of manager will be



Annex 2
Page 7 of 12
selected to head the hospital; hospital managers and not provincial medical officers will
have the power to sign financial documents on behalf of hospitals: a nursing service will be
added to the hospital organizational chart of 1993; (b) promulgation of the law defining
public provision of health care (health map); (c) elaboration of the hospital development
plan as part of the sector strategy; (d) elaboration of plans definirng the public provision of
health care in the regions selected, in order to ensure the articulation between hospitals and
primary health care structures; (e) elaboration of hospital master plans; and (f) elaboration
of hospital waste management plans. All these activities will be carried out during the
transition phase of the project during which five out of the 14 hospitals will be targeted .
During appraisal, it was also agreed that the project will not finance the construction of
new hospitals or thegrehabilitation and equipment of teaching hospitals (CHUs/centres
hospitalo-universitaires). High technology medical equipment (i.e magnetic resonance
image/MRI and other such equipment) will not be financed by the project.
Refreshment courses for hospital physicians and nurses in the use of treatment protocols
for common diseases and medical conditions; (30 man-months of short-term training and
32 man-months of long-term training)
Responsibility for implementing this component
20.    The Directorate of Hospital and Ambulatory Care (DHSA) of MOH will have primary
responsibility for implementing this component. It will work in close collaboration with regional and
provincial hospital directors, medical officers as well as with Communal Council Branches for Health
recently established under the new Regionalization Law. DHSA will maintain regular contact with major
stakeholders involved in the hospital reforms through the meetings MOH has agreed at negotiations to
hold with these stakeholders as frequently as necessary.
Component 2 - Improving Health Sector Financing
Total Estimated Costs: US$2.1 million
21.    Objectives
(i) Develop and introduce a health insurance scheme with mandatory enrollment for public and formal
private sector employees to increase insurance coverage from 15% to 30% of the population; and (ii)
Develop and test financing mechanisms which ensure access to health care for the poor, particularly
hospital services;
Current Situation and Issues
22.    The Moroccan health care system  is underfunded. Aware of this fact and yet facing
macroeconomic constraints, the Government is attempting to promote mechanisms aimed at improving
the social equity of health financing. The project will help introduce more equitable health financing
mechanisms and mobilize additional resources.
23.    Over the last few years, the Government has begun considering a scheme to extend insurance
coverage of the population through a mandatory health insurance scheme. While Government
commitment to extending insurance coverage is strong, there is a lack of consensus among other
stakeholders (Government, unions, employers). In order to provide a forum for discussion and consensus
building, the Government has created the Commission for Economic and Social Dialogue (of which
MOH chairs the subcommittee on Health Insurance), which includes representatives from several



Annex 2
Page 8 of 12
Ministries and from the three main labor unions.3 Its role includes making recommendations to the
Government on the proposed health insurance law (dated June 22, 1995). The proposed law has been
reviewed by the Bank and proposed changes were discussed with the Government during the appraisal
mission. It was approved by the Council of Ministers chaired by the Prime Minister in July 1995, but has
not yet been made effective by the Government Council chaired by His Majesty The King.
24.    Only about 15% of Moroccans are covered by any type of health insurance. Approximately
eighty percent of civil servants are covered by various schemes operated under the umbrella of the public
health insurance office (CNOPS). Under CNOPS coverage, which is optional and finances medical and
surgical services through either direct patient reimbursement or direct provider payment, most
reimbursement goes to the private:,ector. CNOPS is plagued by several problems: (i) management is
fragmented, impeding proper revenue and expenditure control; and (ii) neither planning to improve cost
structures nor revenue projections are adequately performed. In addition to the CNOPS, 20 private
companies provide insurance to 15% of private sector employees, or 4% of the population. Overall,
currently 20% of civil servants and 85% of private sector employees have chosen not to participate in the
voluntary CNOPS plan and of private insurers. An audit of CNOPS is about to be carried out.
25.    A national social security system mandatory for private sector employees (CNSS) finances
family allocations, incapacity leave, pension funds and lump sum payments for medical services. CNSS is
also a health service provider with 13 well equipped polyclinics. Because CNSS unit costs are higher
than private sector costs and because patients are unwilling to pay fees sufficient to cover these costs,
CNSS clinics operate at a large deficit. Technical assistance not related to this project is being provided
to CNSS to examine potential solutions to these issues. In addition, while approximately 15% of CNOPS
members were formerly treated in CNSS clinics, that arrangement was canceled in 1991 after a major
billing dispute concerning unit costs. CNSS has not been paid by CNOPS for the charges which led to
the 1991 dispute, compounding its financial troubles.
26.    In Morocco, sector financing reforms face several challenges: (a) increase the financial
contribution of households who can afford to pay; (b) ensure that public hospitals will also benefit from
the adjustment of the fee schedules and of the implementation of the insurance scheme (and not only the
private sector); (c) regulate the financing mechanisms for the poor, especially for hospital services; and
(d) limit the financial responsibility of the state in making up for deficits of insurance agencies such as
CNOPS. The proposed mandatory health insurance for formal sector employees is based on three
principles: (a) maintain the current benefits (percentage reimbursed for medical services, free choice of
physician and institution for treatment); (b) give to the participant the choice to enroll in the insurance
agency of his/her choice; and (c) give the financial responsibility to insurance agencies, limiting the role
of the state to regulate the scheme and to pay its financial contribution for its employees.
27.    Uninsured and indigent patients present a major challenge to the health sector. Targetin, is the
primary problem in this regard. According to official statistics less than 20% of the population live below
the poverty line; however, in part because local authorities do not apply objective criteria in certifying
individuals as indigent, approximately 70% of patients in public facilities defined themselves as
'indigents" and are therefore excused from paying fees. The Government has appointed a task force to
define objective criteria for identifying indigents and MOH is currently testing them in three sites. More
3   La Confederation Denmocratique du Travail (CDT), L'Union Marocaine du Travail (UMT), and l'Union
Generale des Travailleurs du Maroc (UGTM). This dialogue is momentarily interrupted during the political
transition.



Annex 2
Page 9 of 12
recently, agreement was reached between MOH and the Ministry of Interior to work more closely on
targeting of indigents. Despite inflated indigence classifications, 43% of households contribute to the
direct costs of in-patient services because disposables are frequently unavailable in public facilities.
Activities to be financed under the project:
28.    Project activities will address the issues identified above through technical assistance and
training, studies and analyses, provision of equipment and material needed to establish new financing
mechanisms and systems, and through activities which support development of financing mechanisms.
The issues the component addresses are complex, politically sensitive and highly visible. Project
activities will thus accompany theprocess of development, testing, and implementation of financing
mechanisms, particularly the careful design of the health insurance scheme. Financial mechanisms
designed under the project will take into account the overall finamcial reforms which have just started in
Morocco, under the Bank's Financial Sector Reform Project. As already stated, the implementation of
this component will require significant coordination among key stake holders.
I.     Technical assistance will be guided by a detailed timetable the Government is currently working
on to develop and implement health financing mechanisms and will be provided (but not necessarily
limited to) to:
  Define the population covered by the scheme and the means for its formal regisnration;
*  Define the coverage provided by the scheme (identification of services covered and not
covered. Update coverage criteria and procedures, including the type and frequency of
services covered, reimbursement rates and annual ceilings, and reimbursement mechanisms
to insured patients and hospitals);
*  Structure  the  financing  of the  scheme  ancl mechanisms  for cost-containment;
Define an institutional framework for management of both the National Health Insurance
Scheme, including the roles and responsibilities of the MOH, CNOPS, CNISS, the Ministry
of Finance, and hospitals, as well as linkages between them. Provide management agencies
with the tools necessary to operate the scheme;
*  Revise criteria for hospital admission and strengthen procedures to identify patients insured
under the NHIS, in order to prevent fraud.
* Identify funding sources for the Solidarity Scheme, considering viable alternatives; conduct a
financial sustainabilitv analysis of the Fund based oll these alternatives and others identified.
*  Define the population eligible under the Solidarity Scheme and evaluate the process of
targeting the indigents;
*  Identify an institutional framework for managing the Scheme
*  Identify and implement hospital cost control mechanisms.
*  Define and establish the information system required to plan, organize and manage the NEIS
and the Solidarity Scheme. The system will be used, among other things, to ensure
accountability among providers and insurers and must ensure data quality and confidentiality.
*  Conduct studies and analyses to identify and test those financing scenarios most appropriate
to ensure payment for indigents in public hospitals.
*  Conduct studies and analyses of current private insurers in Morocco to provide policy makers
with the information needed to conduct sector planning and refine the sector development
strategy.



Annex 2
Page 10 of 12
II.    Training program. Managers and other high level staff from relevant agencies will receive
training including study tours to establish and manage the prospective information system (760 person-
days of training).
III.    Support for activities listed under I-II. The project will provide materials and equipment and
conduct workshops and public information campaigns to engender support among regional and local
authorities, the media, and the population for the sensitive actions envisioned under this component
Responsibility for implementing this component
29.    The Directorate of Planning and Financial Resources and the DRC of MOH will have primary
responsibility for implementing thisrcomponent. It will collaborate closely with CNSS, CNOPS and the
other major stakeholders involved in the health financing reforms, through meetings MOE has agreed, at
negotiations, to hold with these stakeholders as frequently as necessary.
Component 3 - Strengthening Policy and Decision-Making Capacities
Total Estimated Costs: USS1.8 million
Objectives
30.    MOH's capacity to monitor and evaluate the activities planned under the first two components is
crucial if they are to yield the expected results. Successful implementation of this component is thus
critical to project success. Component objectives are:
(i) Assist MOH to adjust and perform its functions in the context of the Regionalization Law:
(ii) Provide MOH administration with the management and data tools required for poiicy formulation,
analysis and decision-making; and
(iii) Help MOH to implement its sector strategy.
Current Situation and Issues
3 1.    MOH is in the process of finalizing its sector strategy for the next five years, with technical
assistance provided by two international consultants. The present strategy provides a general logical
framework and direction for sector organization, development and operations. It requires further
elaboration to identify sustainable financing flows, necessary sector planning mechanisms including
information systems for planning and monitoring, and the types of services to be delivered by the public
and private sectors respectively. In making these deterrninations, MOH will need to ensure both that the
territorial decentralization of competencies and functions is consistent with theRegionalization Law and
that functional decentralization of facility management is sufficient to achieve hospital autonomy. MOH
must conceptualize and agree on the division of functions, authority and responsibilities between it and
regional authorities and at the same time conduct a similar exercise with newly autonomous hospitals.
This will require careful planning within MOH, a specific internal articulation of its own role, and careful
coordination with its regional and facility counterparts. Finally, MOH's institutional capacity will need to
be improved if it is to perform these functions and those which will be implied by the finalized strategy.
32.    The absence of a mediumn term planning and budgeting mechanism necessary to imnprove the
allocation and management of public spending has hampered the irnplementation of sector strategies.
Monitoring development projects and programs requires accurate information on actual expenditures of
individual projects and the entire program, including simple breakdowns by implementing agency, sector,
source of financing, etc. Tools such as standardized project profiles for all on-going projects help to: (i)



Annex 2
Page 11 of 12
relate expenditure information to a financial plan for each approved project and (ii) evaluate the
absorptive capacity for new projects. The absence of these tools has been identified as one of the sources
of implementation difficulties encountered in virtually all sectors in Morocco.
33.    Morocco is decentralizing its decision-making and managernent processes. Sixteen new regions
were created and empowered by the Regionalization Law of April 1997. The law gives regional Councils
authority in health and hygiene related matters and hospital rehabilitation (Chapter; 36 and 8). Details of
how the Councils will interact with MOH in carrying out these functions, and oiF the precise authority
vested in each, are not defined by the law. Decrees to facilitate implementation of the law will be issued
soon. In a speech on July 9, 1997, His Majesty King Hassan 1I voiced his insistence for increasing local
communes' responsibilities in the sacial sectors. Therefore, it is expected that hospital reforms will be
implemented in the context of the Regionalization Law and increasing responsibility and influence at the
regional level. Thus, while the Law's specific impact is as yet undefined, it will bring about a general
decentralization of financial and human resources management and activity planning rather than the
deconcentration of those functions currently practiced. MOH will thus have to redefine its mandate both
at the central and regional level as part of developing a strategy to deal with sector stakeholders (i.e.
Governors, local communes, insurance agencies, hospital managers, the private sector).
34.    Adaptation to greater local control under the Regionalization Law could talce place in two phases.
During the first phase, the regions would not assume the responsibility of purchasing services but would
be involved in activities related to provision management as it is currently the case. Each region could
develop a regional plan and maintain involvement in managing local primary health care activities, non-
autonomous en rigie hospitals and some activities in autonomous SEGMA hospitals. During the second
phase, regions would be less involved (as they currently are) in management of services and institutions,
but would instead purchase services from autonomous providers.
35.    Finally, the lack of norms and information for policy formulation, planning and evaluation and
the insufficient availability of reliable data for decision-making and management systems impede rational
decision-making, good management, and follow up within MOH. This further compromises its capacity
to perform adequately, especially in the context of the Regionalization Law. Improving the reliability,
and increasing the availability to decision makers, of information on national health expenditures is an
essential prerequisite for systematic and sustainable efforts to reforn the health sector.
Activities to be financed under this component
I.     Technical Assistance to:
*  Define MOH's mandate in the context of the Regionalization Law. This will require:
(i)  agreement on the distribution of functions among central and regional levels of MOH;
(ii) definition of the central MOH's role in policy formulation, regulation, control and
evaluation;
(iii) definition of functions assigned to regional health authorities;
*  Complete development of and implement the sector strategy. This will require:
(i) definition of the sector-wide financing system and mapping the flow of funds, specifying
the interrelationship of the numerous funding sources (e.g., central government budget,
NHIS, Solidarity Fund) and the regulations needed to enable and enforce the prescribed
flow of funds;



Annex 2
Page 12 of 12
(ii) determination of the types of services eligible for coverage under each financing source
in a manner which ensures equity of access for the poor,
(iii) definition and establishment of mechanisms and procedures for human resource
planning, inter-regional coordination, and information systems to implement, monitor
and adjust sector strategy on a continuos basis; and
(iv) identification of the private sector's role in financing and providing services.
Develop the tools needed for policy formulation and decision-making. This will require:
(i)  definition of a framework, mechanisms and procedures to link regional and local
authorities (i.e. Govrnors and local- communes) to the decision-making process;
(ii)  development of national health accounts (NHA) to enable officials to better understand
the flow of funds in the system, i.e who pays how much and for what;
(iii) strengthening MOH's monitoring and evaluation tools.
Carry out a technical audit of DPRF, DHSA and DRC which are the main technical directorates
involved in the implementation of these reforms. Technical assistance will also be used, if
needed, to help implement the recommendations of this audit.
II.    A  training program  in policy fornulation and decision-making, executive management,
financial analysis, NHA development, and cost-effectiveness analysis will be provided for managers and
high level staff in MOH central directorates and the regions. The program will be implemented both in
Morocco and overseas and will include study tours to countries where decentralization and
regionalization policies have been implemented effectively (200 man-months of training).
III.    Support for activities under I and II will be provided through workshops to create consensus
among key stakeholders on the issues raised in parts I and II, surveys and analyses, and through provision
of necessary material and equipment.
Responsibility for implementation.
36.    The Directorate of Planning and Financial Resources in MOH will have the primary
responsibility for implementing this component. Its staff will have to be strengthened significantly. This
point will be addressed during negotiations when the sector strategy is finalized. This responsibility will
be shared by the DRC.



Annex 2a
Page I of I
Proposed Organizationtal Scenarii for Ilospital Network
Ist scenario             2nd                    3rd                   4thi                  5tt                    6th
All Hospitals become  Give autonomy to all  Give autonomy only    Give autonomy to 16   Give the SEGMA        Combine the legal
autonomous           flospitals at the     to I-lospital of a     Regional Hospital     status to provincial    status: EPA: big
106 Hospitals.       provincial level: 68    reasonable size: 16  networks': 16         I-lospitals (with a   Hospitals
Hospitals.            Regional Hospitals +   I-lospitals + 4      "protected budget"     SEGMA: Average
4 Teaching H-lospitals.  Teachinig hlospitals.   for national public  size Hospitals
healtih programs).    REGIE: small satellite
Hospitals
one lead l{ospital and small satellite tiospitals



Annex 3
Page I of I
Kingdom of Morocco: Ilealilh Fi'ianicinig and Management Project
Estimated Project Costs
(US$'000)
Local               Foreign                 Total
Project Compiionenti
Strengthening I-lospital Management and         27,581.5              33,720.3              61,301.9
Improving Service Quality
Improving Health Sector Financing                 754.1                1,107.9               1,862.0
Strengthening Policy and Decision Making          812.1                 736.4                1,548.5
Capacity
Total Baseline Cost                             29,147.7              35,564.6              64,712.4
Physical Contingenicies                          1,888.0               1,757.4               3,645.4
Price Contingencies                              4,657.4               3,096.6               7,754.0
Total Project Cost                              35,693.1              40,418.7              76,111.8
* Tolals may not add up due to rounding



Annex 4
Page 1 of 6
Morocco: Health Financing and Management Project
Economic Analysis
1.     Introduction.  The project is expected to be the first in a series of sector reform
operations in Morocco. Its objectives are to: (i) improve the efficiency and quality of hospital
services; (ii) mobilize additional resources by introducing new financing mechanisms to ensure
long run financial sustainability of the health system; and (iii) strengthen the Ministry of Health's
policy fornulation and sector management capacity. This analysis is based on sector work and
inputs from project-related technical assistance both local and international; it evaluates the
project's rationale, fiscal impact, costs and benefits, poverty alleviation impact, and the long tern
financial sustainability of policy reforms envisaged.
2.     Key Sector Issues.  Inconsistencies between the distribution of population and the
allocation of resources by region, income groups and type of service create disparity in access to
health care among regions and income groups. While approximately 50% of the population, and
77% of the poor, live in rural areas, 70% of public resources on health are absorbed by urban
hospitals serving mainly urban populations. Only 30% of recurTent expenditures in the sector are
spent on basic care structures and services serving mainly rural populations. Given the disparities
in access, the main challenge for the Government is to improve the quality of and access to public
services by better targeting public expenditures. This will be facilitated by development of
mechanisms to increase non-household private financing and provision of services,
supplementing public resources. To this end, a comprehensive review of the health public
investment program was carried out during the preparation of the health project; key results
follow.
3.     Main Reform Objective. The ultimate objective of the Moroccan health sector reform
is to increase the private sector role in the delivery of services and to establish institutional
financing mechanisms to supplement the budgetary financing which characterizes the system
today. Publicly financed medical assistance for low income households will continue to be an
appropriate State function in the long term. In the mediurrn term, progress towards revising
provision and financing roles will be gradual. For at least the next decade, the public sector will
need to continue to play a prominent role in service provision. With regard to institutional
financing mechanisms, various financially viable risk pooling mechanisms can be developed and
implemented.



Annex 4
Page 2 of 6
4.     The Health Investment Budget. As highlighted in the main text, the Moroccan health
care system is underfunded. Government budgetary allocations for health are amongst the lowest
compared to countries with similar level of per-capita income. Over the past four years, the
authorities have made a laudable effort to increase both the level and the allocation of investment
resources toward basic health infrastructures (see table I below). Actual payments (emissions) for
health projects have increased by 20 percent
on average since 1994 to reach an estimated  Share of the Investment Budget
MAD 500 million in 1997/98. An analysis               (1994S97198)
by source of financing indicates that the
contribution of the State budget averaged         Administ.
MAD 242 million per year (70.Y%) over the          & Other
last four years, reaching MAD 310 million
in 1997/98. Over the same period, financing  Hospital
from  the World Bank and the African        Netw ork
Development Bank (AfDB) averaged MAD          22%
58.9 million (17.2%) and MAD 42.3 million
(12.3%),  respectively.  A   different                              Pimary
breakdown  of actual expenditures  by                               HeaKh
service/networlc shows that investmnent for
basic health infrastructures (SSB) amounted
to MAD 236.8 million (69.0%) on average,
while that of the hospital network averaged MAD 76.9 million (22.4%). Of the latter, capital
transfers to the two teaching hospitals (CHU) accounted for 13.5% or MAD 10.4 million. Finally,
other investnent expenditures in health education and administrative infrastructures averaged
MAD 29.5 million (8.6%).
Table 1: MOH Investnent Budget, 1994-97/98
(Disbursements, in millions of Moroccan Dirhams: MAD)
g________ ___________   Actual  Actual I Actual I Budget | 4-Year |4-Year  %share
___________________ |1994   1 1995  J 96/97 1 97/98    Total   Avge. 1 Avge.
By Financing Sources                           i _   _
-State budget          232.9   192.5   232.6    310.2   968.2   242.1   70.5
- World Bank            52.4    16.6    58.4    108.1   235.5    58.9    17.2
- AfDB                  10.9    47.3    29.2      81.7    169.1    42.3    12.3
Total disbursements    296.2   256.4   320.2    500.0   1372.8   343.2   100.0
By Type of Services
- Primary health       165.2   173.7   224.2   384.2   947.3   236.8   69.0
- Hospital Network     100.4    56.8    66.3      84.1    307.6    76.9   -22.4
* CHU                (16.4)   (5.0)    (5.0)   (15.0)   (41.4)   (10.4)   (3.0)
* Other hospitals    (84.0)   (51.8)   (61.3)   (69.1)  (266.2)  (66.6)  (19.4)
- Administ. & Other     30.6    25.9    29.7      31.7    117.9    29.5    8.6
Total disbursements    296.2   256.4   320.2    500.0   1372.8   343.2   100.0
Sources: Budget documents (MOF); and estimates of MOH4 staff (DPRF).



Annex 4
Page 3 of 6
5.     The Recurrent Budget.    The favorable trend of investmnent in basic health
infirastructures is not matched with sufficient recurrent resources for rehabilitation and
maintenance of these infrastructures. The most I
recent budgetary statistics obtained from MOH     7Share of te Recurrent 3udget
indicate that for 1997/98, the share of the                   (1997198
hospital network in wages and salaries averaged        Administ.
51.7 percent, while that of the SSB network            & Otner       Health
stood at 36.6 percent. This discrepancy grows            IM            7%
even larger when one considers the non-salary
recurrent expenditure: the share of hospitals is
about 80 percent, as compared to only 7 percent I
devoted to the SSB  network (see adjacent               4
graph). This discrepancy in resources allocation
provides a strong economic justification for
simultaneously reforming the hospital sub-sector             -
and introducing new financing instruments. The                    Hospdal
Netw ark
thorough implementation of this reformn package                    30%
will not only improve the quality of hospital __
services, but it will also render hospitals more
financially autonomous. This, in turn, will generate budgetary savings in the medium-term for
added recurrent budget in favor of basic health infrastructures.
6.     Rationale for Public Intervention.  The project is supported by two public goods
arguments and one redistribution argument. First, creation of institutional capacity in the health
sector allowing the public sector to fulfill functions inevitably and exclusively belonging to the
State - sector governance and policy making - will confer long run benefits not captured by
present day patients and which cannot be created by the private sector. Second, by improving
hospital efficiency the project will allow reallocation of resources to basic services in rural areas
over the long run. Improvement of basic social infrastructure in rural areas is a key component of
the Government's strategy to attract private investment and facilitate development in these areas
and thus reduce migration to and unemployment in urban areas. The benefits of this are not
exclusively enjoyed by rural basic services patients or urban hcspital patients. There is currently
no incentive for the private sector to increase its activity in provision of rural heaith services;
with increasing rural incomes however, the public sector role in rural basic service delivery may
need to be reevaluated to avoid the potential for crowding out. Finally, the project is justified by
the redistributive effects it will have in the long run in shifting the availability of resources to
poorer rural areas, away from the higher income urban areas which currently receive over 70% of
sector resources.
7.     Appropriate Form of Intervention.  This project complements the Basic Priorities
Project (BAJ, LN 4025-MOR) in implementing the ambitious social agenda defured in the CAS
and agreed with the Govermnent. The form of intervention is responsive to the specific rationales
for public intervention. First, development of institutional capacity in the public sector cannot be
achieved other than through direct technical assistance to design an organizational fraiework for
the sector in the context of the Regionalization Law, define the respective roles of the central
MOH, facility managers, regional authorities and private actors, and training to increase the
technical capabilities of the Ministry to manage these processes. Second, lack of incentive for



Annex 4
Page 4 of 6
private actors to increase provision of health services in rural areas is due to rural
underdevelopment manifest in the absence of basic social infrastructure and the inability of poor
rural residents to pay for services. The project addresses a portion of the issue indirectly - lack of
health infrastructure - through creating the potential for reallocation of resources to rural areas in
the long run. It is part of a multisectoral solution to a multisectoral problem. Finally, in the
context of relatively limited budgetary resources for the health sectors, the most realistic means
of contributing to poverty alleviation in rural areas is to increase the efficiency of sector
operations and to mobilize extra-budgetary funds. Direct income transfers to rural residents
would not be as effective in raising the health status of the rural population as would long run
reallocation of public resources to basic services in these areas.
8.     Economic and Sector Linkages.  How to accelerate growth and social development
through deeper reforms is the main development challenge facing Morocco. Major constraints to
long term growth include the fact that the population is ill prepared for the challenges of
competitive world labor markets in the next century and the large and persistent disparities in
social development between urban and rural areas. All recent Economic and Sector Work
(ESW)I has explicitly identified this project as a key development priority for the medium term.
9.     Costs and Benefits. Because it combines policy reforms and infrastructure financing,
quantification of costs and benefits for the project as a whole is less feasible than analysis of
selected project components. The project creates net benefits and is an appropriate use of national
resources at the current stage of Morocco's economic and social development. The total cost of
the project is estimated at US$76.1 million including 6% of import duties and taxes.
Hospital Sector Reform   Hospital sector reform supported by the project is expected to cost
US$72.2 million (99% of project cost) and has two subcomponents, Administrative and Financial
Management, and quality improvement including physical rehabilitation. Costs for the
Administrative and Financial Management subcomponent (US$ 18.1 million) are mostly limited
to technical assistance for design and implementation of a new management model, including
drafting related legislation. The medium term benefits of this activity are expected to include
annual direct budgetary savings averaging MAD 400 million (10%/o of MOH recurrent
expenditures). The adoption of new financial management systems and services fees will help
project hospitals recover an increasing share of their operating costs. The bulk of expenditures
(71% of project cost) will cover rehabilitation and equipment and maintenance for14 hospitals.
The benefit of these activities will consist of improved service quality for the population in
project hospital catchment areas (some 7-8 million people). In addition, increasing the efficiency
of resource use in public hospitals will facilitate resource reallocation to basic services and rural
areas in the long terrn. Hospital utilization rates will be used as an efficiency indicator, and
patient satisfaction surveys as a proxy for quality, in project monitoring.
National Health Insurance Scheme (NVHIS) A payroll based mandatory health insurance plan for
public and fonnal private sector employees will aim at extending health insurance coverage firom
15 to 30% of the population. Based on a conventional indemnity model, it would: (i) restrict
coverage to catastrophic risk; (ii) use coinsurance rates to control demand side moral hazard; (iii)
These include the Poverty Assessment (Report No. 11918-MOR); the Public Expenditure Review
(Report No. 13413-MOR); the Country Economic Memorandum (Report No. 14155-MOR); and the
Rural Development Strategy (Report No. 16303-MOR).



Annex 4
Page 5 of 6
use provider incentives to contain upward supply side pressures on medical costs; (iv) base
reimbursement to public hospitals on the full production cost of service; and, (v) base service fees
on the full cost of service so that prices are not distorted by serving as an income transfer
mechanism. Annual direct premium costs are estimated to average 4 to 5% of total participants'
payroll (MAD 986 million) with equal contributions by emlployers and workers. Direct costs
collected transparently as taxes are expected to be less than the total burden of the current system
(public payments to providers plus the negative effects of distortions and inefficiencies created
by frequent non-payment). In addition to direct savings in the form of reduced transfers to
project hospitals, insurance reserves are expected to contribute to an increase in long-term
domestic savings. Through introduction of the NHIS, those who are able to pay (urban formnal
sector employees) will be required to do so. This will reduce the burden on facility budgets,
making it possible over time to reallocate resources from the hospital sector to basic and
preventive services which have the highest return. Design and implementation of the NH[S
should be consistent with the national financial reforms soon to be implemented.
Solidarity Scheme A publicly financed fund to ensure paymernt to hospitals for services provided
to the poor would be established. Under the assumptions tdat (a) the Scheme would finance
services for half the population and have an initial base cost of MAD 60t per beneficiary, and (b)
the Scheme is created at an early stage of the project, annual direct budget costs are expected to
average MAD 600-700 million (1% of budget recurrent expenditures) over the next five years.
MOH has estimated that if the mandatory health insurance is inot implemented, the percentage of
indigents could increase to 70% and the fund annual budget costs would average over MAD I
billion. This excludes the operating cost of the agency charged with the Scheme management.
Management costs could be minimized if an autonomous provider payment system manages both
the NHIS and the Solidarity Scheme.' Creation of a reliable institutional mechanism to finance
those services provided without charge to recipients will enhance system sustainability and
decrease the prevalence of hospitals operating at a deficit. The Scheme would contribute to
quality improvement in two ways: by increasing hospital resources through ensuring adequate
remuneration and by keeping annual premium in line with inflation to allow for quality
improvement. Increasing hospital remuneration will benefit the poor in particular, for whom
purchasing consumables for use in public facilities is-a relatively greater burden.
Institutional capacity Strengthening MOH capacity is necessary for rational policymaking and
for pursuing resource reallocation towards cost effective interventions, inter-regional allocation
of resources to decrease disparities, and a strong partnership with the private sector for the
financing and provision of services.
10.    Fiscal Impact.  Total counterpart funds and recun-ent costs are estimated to average
MAD 60 million (3.2% of MOH investmnent budget) and MAD 1.2 million (less than 0.1% of
MOH recurrent budget) annually for the next five years, respectively. This is not expected to
impose a major fiscal burden. In addition, establishment of financing instruments, adjustmnent of
hospital fee schedules, and increasing facility financial manaLgement autonomy to allow shifting
of resources in response to needs will increase resources available for recurrent maintenance and
consumables budgets which have been drastically reduced in the past five years.
2   Average cost for medical assistance through the social security system.
3   The project will help define the institutional framework for the management of these financing
inst-uments.



Annex 4
Page 6 of 6
l l.    7?Poverty Impact. Reallocation of resources towards basic health services will require
improved efficiency in the hospital subsector, which consumes over 70% of sector resources.
Measures to increase resources and efficiency in hospitals will thus contribute to long run
sustainability of health interventions targeted at the poor. High infant and child mortality rates
and the prevalence of easily treatable diseases are in large part due to the pattern of system
allocations, which emphasize curative hospital care in cities. By generating direct budgetary
savings which can be used to address basic health care needs, and by indirectly providing long
term capital through increased national savings, in the long run this project will help protect the
poor while supporting Morocco's agenda for economic growth. Reallocation of resources
towards basic care and prevent-w'e interventions will need to be closely monitored through public
expenditures reviews, as part of the Bank macroeconomic dialogue in the country.
12.    Reasonable Level of Risk. The project enjoys strong commitment at the highest level
of authority in a politically stable country. However, given the nature and complexity of actions
envisaged, the project presents substantial risk. Risk factors include:
Institutional Risks: Attempts to decentralize management, administration and systems can be
threatening to senior officials at the central level who may lose resources and decision making
authority. The likelihood of this risk stems from the fact that the hospital management and health
care financing reforms to be implemented would effect all segments of society. To mitigate this
risk, a series of workshops will be held to build consensus among system managers, and a high
level Multisectoral Steering Committee will provide a forum  for exchange among key
stakeholders and for resolution of conflicts. Recent Constitutional reforns increasing regional
and community influence should also mitigate this risk, with effective decentralization
progressively lessening resistance to reforrn. Nonetheless, there is a risk that the law on the
politically sensitive national health insurance may be delayed.
d!-:`-c"cono.ic Risks: External and weather related shocks cannot be ignored. In Morocco, the
burden of expenditure reduction in the face of revenue shortfalls has disproportionally been borne
by the social sectors in general and by health in particular. Implementation of the Solidarity
Scheme presents the issue of ensuring earmarked budget allocations, which is not easy to address
in Morocco. This may also threaten implementation of the scheme. Addressing these risks will
require substantial coordination with the Bank macroeconomic work in Morocco in the context of
the rationalization and programming of overall public expenditure and investment in particular.



Annex 5
Page I of I
Kingdom of Morocco: Health Financing and Management Project
Project Financial Summary
(US$'000, 1997 base year)
_mplementatloru Period
1998     1999       2000        2001         2002       Total
Project Costs
Investment Costs       2,959.4   17,033.3  20,731.5     6,518.8    16,9a9.5    64,232.4
Recurrent Costs            -        60.0      60.0        140.0      220.0        480.0
Total Base Costs     2,959.4   17,093.3  20,791.5     6,658.8    17,209.5    64,712.4
Financing Sources
(% of total project costs)
I1RD                      99.6      86.05     86.2         78.5       89.0         86.7
Govemment                  0.4      13.95     13.8         21.5       11.0         13.3
EC                         0.0       0.0       0.0          0.0        0.0         0.0
Total                  100.0     100.0     100.0        100.0      100.0       100.0



Annex 6
Page I of 5
Kingdom of Morocco: Health Financing and Management Project
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
PROCUREMENT
A.    Procurement Methods
1.    Categories of expenditures and procurement methods have been estimated based on the
activities to be partially financed by the Bank and are summarized in Table A. A procurement
plan has been prepared and is available in the implementation volume. This plan will be updated
semi-annually as part of the progress report to be presented by the Project Management Unit,
before supervision missions.
2.     All Bank-financed civil works, equipment and materials would be procured in
accordance with the Bank Procurement Guidelines for Procurement Under Loans and Credits
(January 1995 and as revised in January and August 1996). Procurement of consultant services
and technical assistance would follow the World Bank's Guidelines for the Selection and
Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers (January 1997 and revised in September
1997).
3.     Civil works would be procured according to national competitive bidding procedures,
which are acceptable to the Bank. Works contracts would be of US$1,500,000 value for hospital
rehabilitation, and would be distributed over scattered regions. Packaging would therefore not be
feasible and on-going operations have demonstrated that local contractors are efficient and
sufficient for carrying out these contracts.
4.     Goods and equipments required for the project will consist of hospital equipment
including laboratory and radiology equipment, furniture, computers, office equipment, vehicles
and other small equipment. High technology equipment will not be financed by the project.
Contracts for equipment and materials estimated at US$500,000 equivalent or more each will be
procured through international competitive bidding (ICB), using the World Bank Standard
Bidding Documents. Goods estimated to cost US$500,000 or less will be procured through
national competitive bidding (NCB) procedures. Contracts estimated at US$50,000 or less may
be procured through National Shopping.
5.     Consultants services will be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of a quality
and cost-based selection.  Technical assistance services below US$100,000 for services
described in Annex 2, may be procured on the basis of Consultant qualifications. Services likely
to be financed under the loan include studies, technical assistance and training for which
proposals will be requested from three to six short-listed firms/individuals.
6.     Training services will follow the same guidelines as described in paragraph S above.
The per diems provided to trainees, civil servants in study tours or special missions will be
calculated and reimbursed following UNDP guidelines for such expenses, on country and city
basis. During negotiations, the Borrower will confirm its agreement on the above.



Annex 6
Page 2 of 5
B.     Bank Prior Review
7.     Investments: The project will finance the rehabilitation and equipment of 14 hospitals
under the first project component. Sites eligible for financing under the loan, during the first year
will be agreed upon during negotiation.
8.     Standard documentation: Bank Standard Bidding Documents for equipment procured
through ICB procedures will be used in the preparation of bidding documents. During appraisal,
the procedure was revised and it was agreed that general conditions (Instructions to Bidders and
General Condition of Contract) will be used without any changes and that only particular
conditions (Bid, Data Sheet, Special Conditions of Contract) and the Schedule of Requirements
and Technical Specifications will be sent to the Bank for non-objection.
9.     For all contracts for goods and works exceeding US$500,000 an ICE (for goods) and
NCB (for works) documentation would be subject to prior review and approval by the World
Bank. It is estimated that this review would cover 80% of the wDrks contracts and approximately
60% of goods contracts. The remaining 20% for works and 40% for goods would be subject to
selective post-award review. For consultancy assignments, including training services, financed
by the loan, there would be prior review of contracts worth US$ 100,000 and above for contracts
with consulting firms and US$50,000 and above for contracts with individual consultants. Terms
of Reference for all services to be provided would be subjec:t to prior review by the Bank.
Finally, all contracts for which sole source contracting is envisaged will require prior approval by
the Bank. This would result in prior review of about 75% of Blank-fnanced procurement. The
contract review arrangements are summarized in table B. C'ontracts under US$100,000 for
consulting firms and under US$50,000 for individuals would be subject to selective post-award
review.
C.    Responsibility for Procurement
10.    As in the two on-going bank financed projects, responsibility for procurement will be as
follows:
(i) For civil works, the selection and contracting of architects and contractors, as well as
the supervision of sites will be the responsibility of the technical department of MOH
(Directorate of Equipment and Maintenance/DEM), of DHSA, with the technical cooperation of
the respective regional Directors of health when appointed and/or hospital administrators. At the
conceptual stage, functional programs will be provided by DEM with external technical
assistance. The DEM will also monitor progress in implementation and processing of payments.
(ii) Medical equipment and hospital furniture, computers, will be handled at the central level by
the DEM, DHSA and hospital Directors. Vehicles, office equipment, computers and small
equipment will be procured by the central directorate in charge of the activity. All these units
have the experience of Bank-financed procurement and have demonstrated their capacity to
handle similar procurement on the two on-going projects. Maintenance of hospital equipment
would be under the responsibility of each hospital which will become autonomous during the
project.
(iii) Services: Terms-of-reference, short lists and draft contracts will be prepared by the various
concerned departments listed in para 4(a), page 5 of the PAD.



Annex 6
Page 3 of 5
I.    Planning, coordination and monitoring of the procurement process, and their linkages
with the disbursement function will be the responsibility of the Project Management Unit. This
unit will be responsible for procurement reports included in the bi-annual project progress report
DISBURSEMENTS
A.    Allocation of Loan Proceeds (Table C)
12.    Allocation of loan proceeds by category of expenditures is based and on the assessment
of investments to be submittedefor Bank financing. The resulting allocation is summarized in
Table C.
B.     Use of Statements of Expenditures)
13.    Full documentation for expenditures under contracts requiring Bank's prior review will
be submitted with corresponding application. Disbursements for contracts valued at less than
US$500,000 for works and goods; US$100,000 with consulting firms, US$50,000 with individual
consultants, and training will be made on the basis of Statements of Expenditures (SOEs). During
negotiations, assurance was obtained that documentation to support expenditures financed under
SOEs, or otherwise mentioned, will be maintained and made available for review by auditors and
Bank supervision missions.
C.    Special Account
14.    In order to facilitate disbursements against eligible expenditures, the Government will
establish a Special Account (SA) in Moroccan dirhams (MAD) under terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank. The Bank would upon request, make an Authorized Allocation
equivalent to FRF30 million. Initially, the allocation would be limited to FRF18 million
equivalent until disbursement reaches FRF60 million equivalent, at which time the full
Authorized Allocation could be claimed. Application for the replenishment of the Special
Account would be submitted monthly or when one third of the initial deposit has been utilized,
whichever comes first. The replenishment application would be supported by the necessary
documentation, bank statements of the special account, and a reconciliation of these bank
statements against Bank records. The SA would be audited annually by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank. During negotiations, agreement was obtained on the provisions for the
operation and auditing of the Special Account. It is important to stress that in Morocco, the
Ministry of Finance manages special accounts and reimbursements from these accounts for
expenses paid through the general budget. As a result of this situation, disbursement lags are
likely to be an issue which is beyond the responsibility of the project's units and of the Ministry
of Health.



Annex 6
Page 4 of 5
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(in US$ million equivalent)
Expenditure Category                     Procurement Method             Total Cost
(including
ICB       NCB      Other (      B) T..F.  contingencies)
1. Civil works                             16.5         0.0       0.0       16.5
(14.0)                           (14.0)
2. Goods                         42.0        0.6        0.1       0.0       42.7
(38.7)     (0.5)       (0.1)               (39.3)
3. Services                       0.0        0.0       12.7       3.6       16.3
Services (including consultants                       (12.7)                (12.7)
services and taining)
4. Recurrent Costs                0.0        0.0        0.0       0.6        0.6
Total                            42.0      17.1        12.8       4.2       76.1
of which BRD                   (38.7)    (14.5)      (12.8)               (66.0)
Notes:
(*) Other = National shopping and consultants procedures
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Amounts and totals have been rounded.
Figures in parentheses are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan/IDA credit



Annex 6
Page 5 of 5
Table B: Prior Review Threshold (USS)
Expenditure Category        Contract Value         Procurement   Contracts Subject to PriorReview
(Thresholo             Method
1. Civil Works        > USS3,000,000                  ICB         All contracts>USS350,000
<= USS350,)00                   NCB        All contracts>USS3250,000
2. Goods              >  USS350,000                    ICB        All contracts>USS350,000
<= USS350,000>USSSO,000         NCB        No prior review
<=  USS50,000                   NS         No prior review
3. Services
*  Firms            >  US$100,000                 Consultant    TORs*, Short list, LOI and conwas
<= USS100,000                Guidelines    TORs only
*  Individuals      >   US$50,000                 Consultant    TORs, Short list. LOI and contracts
<=  USS50,000                Guidelines    TORs only
*  Training         >   USS50.000                 Consultant    TORs, Short list, LOI and contracts
<=  USS_0.000                Guidelines    TORs only
- TORs: Terms Of Reference
Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Expenditre Category          Amount in FRF million       Percent of Expenditures to be
Financed
Civil Works                            84.960            85%
Goods and Equipment                   202.590             1.00% of foreign expenditures,
85% of local expenditures
Services and Training                  72.770             100% of total expenditures
Fees                                    3.963            Section 2.04 Loan Agreement
Unallocated                            36.017
Total                                 400.300



Annex 7
Page 1 of 1
Kingdom of Morocco: Health Financing and Msauagement Projiect
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget (US$000)                      Planned               Actual
(At final PCD stage)
$419.4               383.6
B. Project Schedule                             Planned               Actual
(At final PCD stage)
Time taken to prepare the project (months)        120.3                103.8
First Bank mission (identification)            March 1994           March 1994
Appraisal mission departure                     10/06/97             09/11/97
Negotiations                                    01/13/913             09/08198
Planned Date of Effectiveness                   07/01/983            03/15/99
Prepared by: Ministry of Public Health, with the technical assistance of international and national
consultants
Preparation assistance: PHRD #: US$ 323,000
TF (Canada) US$91,000
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Maryse Pierre-Louis, Sr. Population and Health Specialist (Task Manager, Team Leader)
MNSHD
Christian Rey, Sr. Portfolio Officer, MNSHD
Kouassi Soman, Economist, PREM
Francesco Sarno, Sr. Implementation Specialist, AFTS3
Nicholas Presscott, Principal Economist, EA1HR (Peer Reviewer)
Willy de Geyndt (Retired Bank staff) Principal Hospital Management Specialist (Peer Reviewer)
Claudine Kader, Language Team Assistant, MNSHD



Annex 8
Page I of 1
Kingdom of Morocco: Health Financing and Management Project
Documents in the Project File*
A. Project Implementation Plan
1.    Detailed project description (implementation schedule and cost tables will be
available after appraisal
2.    Aide-memoire of preparation and appraisal missions
3.    PCD
B. Bank Staff Assessments
1.    Aide-minmoire from missions (since identification)
2.    BTO reports
3.    Detailed tables for economic analysis
C. Other
*Including electronic files
Jolly D.     Reformes de l'hospitalisation publique au Maroc (2 reports)
Soucy G.     Rapports de mission au Maroc concernant la reforme des hopitaux
publics au Maroc (1995)
Rapport sur le volet assurance-maladie et des economiquement faibles
(April 1997)
Guedira N.   Evaluation du Fonds national d'assistance medicale (FNAM)
SECOR        Detailed Reports, on Health Financing and Hospital Reform in Morocco
February 1995.
Various Bank Background reports on Economic Analyses
SARs         From Health Sector Investment Project
Basic Health Project
Morocco      CAS
Bengoa R     Health Sector Strategy, 1997 (DRAFT)
Nichols D.



Annex 9
Slatus of Hanik Group Operations in Morocco                                                                 Page I of 2
Oleratioims Ilortfolio
Difference
Between expected
OrIginal Amounit In US5$ Millins              and actual
Fiscal                                                                                                               dishursements a/
Project ID    Year              Borrower                    Purpose
IORD       IDA     Cancellations  Unidisbursed  Orig    Frm Rev'd
Number of Closed Projects; 102
Active ProJecta
Nh-PE-40566    1998   GOVT OF MOROCCO                  RURAL W.S.4                10.00       0.00            0.00         10.23     2.00        0.00
SANITATH
MA-PE-5521     1998   GOVT OF MOROCCO                  WATER RESOURCE             20.00       0.00            0.00         20.46      1.25       0.00
MGMT.
MA-P6-5523     1998   FEC                              MUNICIPAL FIIAUICE         70.00       0.00            0.00         61.85    16.74        0.00
11
14A-PE-38978    1997   GOVERNMENT OF MOROCCO           PSO III-VOC TRG.           23.00       0.00            0.00         20.78      8.12#       .62
MA-PE-43725    1997   ONCF                             RAILWAY RESTR i            85.00       0.00            0.00         69.32       .51       0.00
PRIV
tA-PE-42414    1996   GOVT OF MOROCCO                  COOK/MON SOCIAL PRO        28.00       0.00            0.00         27.86      2.58       0.00
MA-PE-42415    1996   GOVT OF MOROCCO                  SPI - IIEALTH              68.00       0.00            0.00         59.24      -.92       0.00
MA-PE-5501     1996   GOV. OF MOROCCO                  SPI - EDUCATION            54.00       0.00            0.00         36.20     2.93        0.00
MA-PE-5503     1996   KING00M OF MOROCCO               SEN.& WATER REUSE          40.00       0.00            0.00         39.21      4.80       0.00
fl
MA-PE-5489     1995   KINGDOM OF MOROCCO               SECONDARY ROADS            57.60       0.00            0.00         51.72    39.26        0.00
MH-PE-5435     1994   KINGDOM OF MOROCCO/ONEP          WATER SUPPLY V            160.00       0.00           40.00         82.55    65.54        4.51
WA-PE-5499     1994   GOV. or MOROCCo                  IRf. AREAS AGR.            25.00       0.00            5.00         16.1S    16.11        6.42
SERV
MA-PE-5504     1994   KINGDOM or MOROCCO              ENVIRONMENT                  6.00       0.00            0.00          4.29     3.41        0.00
MANAGEME
NA-PE-5462     1993   GOVERNMENT                       SECOND LSI                215.00       0.00           71.12         66.48   39.81         6.02
IMPgOVEME
HA-PE-5514     1993   GOV. OF MOROCCO                 IJND DEVEI.OPMENT          130.00       0.00           24.00         44.68    61.89       38.64
MA-PE-5517     1993   GOV.OF MOROCCO/FEC              MUNICIPAI FINANCE 1       104.00       0.00            4.00          3.96      7.97       1.47
MA-PE-5495     1991   MOROCCAN BANKS                   FINANCIAL SECTOR          235.00       0.00           16.60         16.49    33.30       16.47
DEV
Kk_pe_s40A    1990   KrCr.noM OF MOROCCO               HEALTH SECTOR             104.00       0.00            5.00          8.36    13.35        0.00
INVEST
Total                                                                          1,434.60       0.00          165.92        645.83   318.65       74.15
Active Proiects      Closed Pr0jeCts          Total
Total Disbursed (l1RD and IDA):               632.56           5,712.59            6,345.15
of which ham been repald:                40.60           2,936.26            2,976.6
Total now held by lORD and IDA:             1,228.08           2,834.65            4,062.13
Amount sold                    :                0.00              20.11               20.11
0t whIchl repaid            :                0.00              20.11               20.11
Total Undisbursed              :              645.83              46.17              692.00
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
Note:
Disbursement data Is updated at the end of the first week of thie month.
Generated by ihe Operalions Informalion S/stem (OIS)



Annex 9
Page 2 of 2
Morocco
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Committed and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 30-Sep-98
(in US Dolla Milions)
Committed                        Disbursed
IFC                              IFC
FY Approval             Company          Loan   Equity   Quasi  Partic   Loan  Equity  Quasi  Partic
1987/90                CIH                    20.72    0.00     0.00     1.13   20.72    0.00    0.00    1.13
1987/93                SETAFIL                 3.15    1.20     0.00    0.00    3.15    1.20    0.00    0.00
1990                   ENNASR                  .94    0.00      0.00    0.00      .94    0.00    0.00    0.00
1994/96                Mediafmance             0.00    1.16     0.00    0.00    0.00    1.16    0.00    0.00
1995                   Attijari                0.00     .50     0.00    0.00    0.00    .26    0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:                   24.81    2.86     0.00     1.13  .24.81    2.62    0.00    1.13
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan   Equity   Quasi  Partic
Tomal Pending Commitment            0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00
Generated by the Opauions Informalion Systmn (OIS) on 11/03198



Page 1 of 2
Morocco at a glance
AL East   Lower.
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                        & North  mnddd 
Morocco     Aftica   Income       D.viopmiUUi dlamoud
1997
Popuiadon. mid-ye  (millions)                      27.5       283      2.2S5
GNP per ceapita (Asg metod, USS7                  1.250      z6o        1.23
GNP (Adas meto. USSL bKns                          34.4        583    281l
Average annual growt9 . 19S147
Popuation (%)                                        1.9       2.3        1.2     GNP                           G
l    or me ()                                        2.5       3.2        1.3      p                            Gross
I per                          pnnary
MoK recent as nm  (lt year iluae 111921J7                                         capita          e<n              tonw
Poverty (% of popubdon bekow n  1OfN6powy Mie)       13 3
UrOan population (% of C populaiM)                   53         57        42
Life exoectancy at birhn  evs)                       67         57        59
Infant montaity (per 1.000 1  bs)                    51        48         36
Child marnulbon (1 of U,,n unew6)                    10          ..                       Acc   1 t safea
Aa#ss to safe water (1 of popuatin)                  52         71        84   i
lb teacy (% of populaton age 15+)                   S5          39        19          -
Gross pnnary enrollment (6 of sciolge population)    83         97       t11   ,            °
Maie                                               94       102        116          -  L -m11ontegroup
Female                                             71        91        113    _
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TM  TRENDS
1971    198S       1996      1997
GOP (USS billions)                          9.3    17.0       36.7      33.S
Grss comesic mnvesunenGDP                  28.1    22.8       19.8      20.6                    Taae
Exports of gooes ano servicesJGOP          18.5    22.1       25.7      30.4
Gross comestic savings/GOP                  8.7    16.7       16.9      16.8
Gross national savingslGOP                 14.6    17.4       19.0      20.0
Current ac=ount balance/GOP               -14.9    -1.0       -1.1       -.4      Domestic                   vtrt
interest payment&/GOP                       1.2     3.8        3.6        3.8     Savings                   Ivsmnt
Total oebtlGOP                             33.2   103.6       592        57.0
Total debt servicelexpons                    .-       *-      27.7       24.4                     V
Present value of debtGOP                     ..      ..       53.8
Presert value of debtexports                ..       ..    169.7          ..
197S46  1987-47    1996       1997   1998-02
(average annual grwth)J
GOP                                4.3      2.6    12.6       -ZO        4.6              _
GNP per capita                     1.6      0.7    10.9       -4.4       2.9         -     Low emiddle4ncome grouP
Expors of goods and services       4.3     6.9      8.4        6.3       7.3  1,__
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY                                                        _______-
1976    1986       1896      1997      Growr rs of out ant Invement (
(% of GDP)
AgncAuMre                                  19.2    19.1       19.3       15.3       7
Industry                                  32.5    32.3        30.3      33.2   i
Manufactunng                             16.5    17.2       17.0       17.6       A.          /,.\
Servces                                    48.3    48.6       50.4      51.5 °
Pnvate consumpton                         68.9    68.0        68.0      85.3   , .
General govemrment consumption             22.5    15.4       16.7      17.9
Imports of goods and sevces               37.9    28.2        30.0      33.9
197646  1987-97      1896       1S97     Grwth  s of xporis and Imports %
(average annual growh)
Agneulture                                  3.6    -0.2       78.0     -25.6   Ia.T
Industry                                    2.5     3.0        3.4       8.4
Manufactunng                              4.3      3.3       3.0        3.1             \
Services                                    5.6     3.2        4.9       0.0     s.
Pnvate oonsumpton                           3.1     3.3       19.3  t10.1        o
General government consumption              5.0     1.1      -15.2       5.2   14         s             os
Gross domestic investent                    0.6     2.1       12.1       2.2
IMports of goods and services              -1.1     5.9       .4.0        1.8
Grss naiol product                          3.9     2.7       13.2      .2.0    __ _
Note: 1997 data are preirmny estimates.
* The diamonds show four key indie tor in the tountry Cn bold) compared with its income-goup average. It data are rrmissing. De dimond wi
be incomplete.



Morocco
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Damowc prices                     1976    1986        1998     1997   !Infldwon(%
N4 mange)                                                                      ,r 
Consufwf ionclis                            ..        _        3.0       1,0   i      
limpbit GOP defltr                         1.5    10.3         o.a       2.0
(% of GP. indd cSgswMnt gaq                                                       ta
Cunent revenue                            20.3    18.5        24.3      25.2                       u          g    7
Current budget balance                     0.8    -1.7         0.9       1.6                 G0P oelz   -
Overal surpiusldeficit                   -18.1    -8.6        -3.4      .3.7   i
TRADE
(USS millions}                          w 1976    1986       1996      1997      Exwrt and import leves (USS millions)
Totm exors (fob)                             ..   2.606      6.83      7.039   ! sw.
Ot0w agncultum                             ..    792       1.634     1.374
Phol3proius                                       412        348      435    10.0*   -
MSanufacturS                               *. 654          1.531     1.49       1 50
Tot imoorts (CM                             ..   3,925      9.726     9.521   ,o0* 
Foox                                       ..    478       1,287     1,065
Fueo ano energy                                   595      1.724     It';N     2-     i       i i           I i
Caotl a goen                               ..     59       1.2       12681        0
Exooft once index (1995S100)                 .       fi7       so        84
Import pnce index (1995stOO)                 ..      76        9S        89               UExons      eInOOns
Tenrs of trade (79951OO)                   ..       89        85        9S
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(USES millions)                           1976    1986       1996      1997      Cunins aw4oum Dalance to GDP reo (%)
Expor* Of goods and seviMCes             1,696    3.757     9.433     9.483 '
Imports of goods and 3erces              3,450    4,796    10.991    10,632   '                    U        *   '
Resoure aance                            .1,754   -1,039    -1.558    -1,148      T-          I     In
Net income                                .127    -688    .1,211    .1.179
Net current transfers                      499    1,549     2.352      2.205   '                   U
Current account balance                  -1.382    -178      -418      -123      ' f    
Financng items (net)                     1.385     545        465       679
Changes in netresees                        18    -387        .47      -556
Mento:i
Resves including gold fUSS  lons)            ..      ..    3.988      4.154
Conversion rate (DEC. b1caKISS)            4.4      9.1        8.7       9.5
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE RFOWS
1976    1986       1996      1997
(tiES m11,ons)                                                                   Composuon of toul cet. 1997 (USS milions)
Total deot outstanding and diutd          3.084   17.601    21.710    19.096
IBRD                                     289    1.859     3,732     3.271
IDA                                       35      42         32        31                             A: 32Jt
Total debt service                          ..       ..      3.219     2817 
IBRO                                      34     233        599       532
IDA                                        0        1         2         2
Comgosition of net resoue flows                                                   F: 5.074
O0ffi; grants                             47      57        356       100
Olcmal creditors                                            1 ..  124  -490
PFvate creditos                            ..      ..       190      .140
Foreign airect invesment                  38      89        397     1.210t
PorYio equity                             ..       0        134         0                               . ..e7
World Snk pogam
Commitents                               1S0     3e6        213       1S5     A-I8RD                     E -84a2
Disiourse"its                             64     363        380       141     3-ID      0 - O0w mulOlel   F .  Pnvw
Pnnclal repaymnt                          i5     109        342       295     C- iF                      G - Shrttn
Net flows                                 49     254         38      .154
interest paymen                           20     125        2S8       238
Net transfers                             29     128       -221      -392
Dese9.x  jent                                                                                                   10/1198



