Report No. PID5413
Project Name            Morocco-Health Financing and Management Project (@+)
Region                           Middle East and North Africa
Sector                           Basic Health
Project ID                       MAPA5525
Borrower                         Kingdom of Morocco
Implementing Agency              Ministry of Public Health
Contact                          Mr. M. Laaziri, Director of Planning
and Financial Resources
Dr. Essolbi, Director of Hospital and
Ambulatory Care
335, avenue Mohamed V
B.P. 812
Mechanar, Rabat, Morocco
Tel: 212.7.76.16.75
Fax: 212.7.76.94.80
Date initial PID prepared        December 1994
Date this update prepared        December 18, 1997
Projected Appraisal Date         November 10, 1997
Projected Board Date             May 1998
Background
1.      Over the past decade, Morocco's significant achievements in
economic stabilization and modernization contributed to improvements
in living conditions. In the health sector, however, physical
access, quality of services, and health education, need further
development. Both fertility and infant mortality remain high in the
poorest rural areas, where most pregnant women do not seek prenatal
care nor deliver with medical assistance. Disparities in the
effectiveness and quality of services exist between regions and
between urban and rural areas, in part because of a bias towards
large public hospitals which primarily serve the urban population
and which absorb a high share of public spending. Although some
public health programs such as immunization and family planning have
been relatively successful (despite a heavy reliance on external
funding), a long-term solution to overall sector problems can only
be achieved through development and implementation of a
comprehensive health sector reform program, including public
resources being targeted to those most in need, i.e. the poor and
rural population.
Government Strategy
2.      As part of the government's effort to develop a Strategy for
Social Development, the Ministry of Health (MOH) has centered its
strategy around two main themes: (i) strengthening and expanding



preventive and basic curative programs, with a priority for rural
areas, women and children; and (ii) implementing structural reforms
to improve the efficiency of the overall sector and to ensure the
sustainability of health programs. Specific action plans and
prospective resource allocation patterns to achieve these objectives
are being developed and important initiatives have been taken in the
following areas: (i) priority recruitment of physicians for rural
health centers; (ii) redeployment of redundant personnel to
facilities needing specialized staff; and (iii) reorganization of
the MOH in an attempt to better cope with the challenges ahead.
Structural reforms under preparation include: (i) establishment of a
mandatory health insurance system to cover a package of essential
services and would initially be targeted to the salaried population
(civil servants and formal private sector employees); (ii) creation
of a "Solidarity Fund" to match health insurance mechanisms for
indigent populations; and (iii) management reforms, initially in
hospitals, to provide public facilities with greater autonomy and
more effective management procedures.
3.      Such a broad agenda can be addressed only in the medium to long
term and through the implementation of well targeted actions.
Because health financing and health management reforms are key
instruments for the overall reorganization of the health care
system, the Government has identified them as priority areas for
action. The Government has requested the Bank to support its agenda
through the proposed Health Financing and Management Project.
Project Objectives and Description
4.      The project's overall objectives would be to support Government
efforts to: (i) address major hospital efficiency issues while
improving service quality; (ii) introduce new health financing
mechanisms capable of increasing the level of resources available
and promoting equity; and (c) strengthen institutional capacity for
policy formulation and decision making. The proposed project would
include the following components:
(a) Strengthening Hospital Management and Improving Quality.
The project would support the development and implementation of: (i)
a Management Information System that would provide the necessary
information needed to determine unit costs and fee schedules to
adjust to new financing mechanisms and to implement uniform
financial management and performance evaluation procedures; (iii) a
new legal and organizational framework for hospitals, based on the
Services Etatiques Geres de Maniere Autonome (SEGMA)'s (See 1/) experience,
that would reinforce management and financial autonomy and promote
performance oriented procedures; (iii) a medium-term strategic plan
for hospital development, to rationalize future investments; (iv) a
program of in-country and overseas training for managerial staff in
all areas related to the new management procedures, as well as
information and orientation workshops for both managerial and
technical staff; (v) introduction of management tools; (vi)
significant improvements in the quality of services need to be
achieved in order to make the above-mentioned reforms implementable.
The project would therefore support: (1) the definition of technical
- 2-



procedures, supervision and quality control mechanisms; (2)
improvement in the physical setting through the replacement of
priority medical equipment, physical rehabilitation of priority
facilities and provision of furniture for patient accommodation.
Particular emphasis will be given to improving facility and
equipment maintenance capacities through development and
implementation of specific management tools and staff training. For
the largest facilities, the project will also support the
preparation of architectural master-plans that will guide physical
rehabilitation; and (3) improvement in medical staff effectiveness
and productivity, through technical assistance and training aimed at
rationalizing the definition and distribution of tasks, and
improving quality management. Criteria for targeting physical
investments to the areas most in need, as well as the development of
project performance indicators have been agreed upon during project
preparation.
(b)   Improving Health Sector Financing.   This component
focuses on revenue raising and coverage. The project will support:
(i) the development and gradual implementation of a mandatory health
insurance system through technical assistance and required hardware
and software. The Government has appointed a task force to oversee
finalization of a new law and decrees in this area. This task force
includes key representatives from the social security agencies and
private sector employers as well as from unions. Technical
assistance was contracted during project preparation to work with
all actors involved in this process. A consulting firm has been
appointed by the social security fund (Caisse nationale de securite
sociale - CNSS) to analyze several aspects of the proposed health
insurance law. (ii) analytic studies needed to finalize a proposal
for financing health services for indigent patients. Preliminary
work on this has been done by the MOH. (iii) pilot testing of
mechanisms to cover medical indigents; and (iv) review and
implementation of a new fee schedule to better reflect the costs of
services provided at the hospital level.
(c) Strengthening Health Policy and Decision Making. The
project would support: (i) the development of National Health
accounts to improve effective policy formulation; (ii) consensus
building on public and private responsibility for financing and
delivery of health care; and (iii) finalization of studies on the
burden of diseases and cost effectiveness of various interventions;
and (iv) the implementation of the Government sector strategy with
emphasis on the regionalization law.
Project Cost and Financing
5.      Total project cost is currently estimated at US$126 million, of
which about US$60 million would be financed by the Bank, and US$24
million by the European Commission in parallel financing.
Project Implementation
6.      Past Bank experience has highlighted the need to set-up a
strong and dependable implementation unit. Implementation
-3 -



arrangements have been defined during appraisal.
Rationale for Bank Involvement
7.      The Bank has been active in the sector through the Health
Development project (Loan 2572-MOR of US$28.4 million) which closed
in December 1993, and through the Health Sector Investment Project
(Loan 3171-MOR of US$ 104 million), which became effective in
September 1990. The Bank is also supporting the development of a
coherent social policy framework which will ensure that all
Moroccans are given the opportunity to build their basic human
capital. In the health sector, this will entail strengthening
preventive and low level curative services, in particular in rural
areas. This will be addressed through the Social Priorities Project
under preparation and subsequent similar operations, while the
definition of longer term health policies should be initiated
through the Maghreb Health Priorities Study. The proposed Health
Management and Financing project would complement these approaches
by concentrating on management (in particular at the hospital level)
and financing reforms. The Bank's experience in lending for
institutional restructuring, developing management tools and
training, and introducing health information and financing systems
offers a substantial advantage over other external agencies active
in the health sector.
Project Benefits
8.      The project will address several critical and long-term issues
confronting the Moroccan health sector.    Major progress is expected
in: (i) hospital management, through greater autonomy, personnel
training and better financial management which will enhance internal
efficiency and contain costs; (ii) equity of health financing
through increases in health insurance coverage and the development
of other financing mechanisms; and (iii) the quality of health care
in public hospitals benefiting the segment of the population served
by the project.
Environmental Aspects
9.      The proposed project was reviewed under the procedures
specified in the Bank's Operational Directives and was determined to
be in Category B. No Environmental Assessment (EA) will be conducted
for this project.
1/    Already an attempt was made through the transforming of some
hospitals into Services Etatiques Geres de Maniere Autonome (SEGMA),
a legal statute that provides public entities with increased autonomy
to manage financial resources.
Contact Point            The InfoShop
The World Bank
- 4-



1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433.
Tel: 202.458.5454
Fax: 202.522.1500
Note:   This is information on an evolving project. Certain
components may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending January 23, 1998.
- 5 -



Annex
ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS
The project would support Government efforts to address major
hospital efficiency issues, improve quality of care at the hospital
level, mobilize additional resources for the sector and strengthen
institutional capacity for policy formulation and decision-making.
The project does not have any negative impact on the environment. It
will rehabilitate approximately 15 hospitals (out of 100 in the
country). No major expansion is anticipated and no new construction
of hospitals will take place under the project. Under the project,
the basic functions of these hospitals will remain the same; the
physical rehabilitation plans will put particular emphasis on
medical waste disposal and hospital staff will benefit from
adequate training in waste management. The project was upgraded
from category C to B to comply with new Bank's environmental
guidelines and not because of any change in the project's design.
- 6-



