RESTRICTED
FILE      COPY                    Report No.    P- 91
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO
THE PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
FOR A
HIGHWAY PROJECT
March 31, 1971



INTERNATIONAL DE7ELOH IENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT TO
THE PEO?LE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
FOR A HIGHWAY PROJECT
1.        I submit the followi,ng report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit in an amount in various currencies equivalent to
US $1.6 million to the People's Democratic Republic of Yemen for a high-
way project.
PART I - HISTORICAL
2.        The proposed project would be the first Bank Group lending opera-
tion in the People's Democratic Republic of Yemen, which became a member of
the Bank in 1969 and of IDA in 1970. An economic mission which visited the
country in February/Miarch 1970 recommended assistance for the transporta-
tion sector and also defined in detail a project which the Bank Group could
consider. The project was appraised by the Association in August 1970.
Since the United Nations Development Program (UNDP) had already provided
some assistance for highways and as there were prospects of additional
UNDP financing for some components of the project, IDA staff also assisted
the Government in applying to the UNDP for finance for them.
3.        Negotiations for the proposed development credit took place in
liashington between March 3 and 10, 1971. The Government was represented
by Mr. Farag Bin Ghanem, Director General of the Planning Board,
Mr. Nadeem Hussein Ali, Director, Department of Statistics and Planning
of the M1inistry of Works and Communications, and Mr. Mohamed Omar Ben
Sahl, Legal Advisor to the Economic Organization for the Public Sector
and National Planning.
4.        The Government has requested Bank Group assistance in identi-
fying and eventually financing projects in agriculture, fisheries,
industry and transportation.



PART II - DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSED CREDIT
5.        Borrower:                    People's Democratic Republic of
Yemen
Amount:                      US $1.6 million equivalent
Purpose:                     To finance the foreign exchange
cost of feasibility studies for
about 500 miles of roads, detailed
engineering of selected roads,
spare parts and accessories for
highway maintenance, and workshop
and related equipment
Amortization:                In 50 years, including a 10-year
period of grace, through semi-
annual installments of 1/2 of 1 per-
cent from May 15, 1981 through Novem-
ber 15, 1990 and of 1-1/2 percent
from May 15, 1991 through November 15,
2020
Service Charge:              3/4 of 1 percent per annum
PART III - TH- PROJECT
6.        A report entitled "Appraisal of a Highway Project in the People's
Democratic Republic of Yemen" (No. PTR-70a) is attached.
7.        The proposed project consists of:
(a) feasibility studies of selected roads totalling about
500 miles;
(b) detailed engineering of about 150 miles of roads,
identified by the feasibility studies as having high
economic priority for construction;
(c)  highway workshop and communication equipment and
spare parts for existing highway maintenance and
workshop equipment;



(d) provision of a technical assistance team to advise and
assist in improving the organization, operations and
methods of the Public Works Department (PirSD); and
(e)  overseas fellowships for F.D staff.
8.        The proposed project is estimated to cost about US $2.7 million.
The proposed development credit of US $1.6 million wsrould cover the foreign
exchange component of project items (a) through (c) of paragraph 7 above,
the total cost of which is estimated to be approximately US $2.0 million.
UNDP has agreed in principle to provide about US $680,000 to finance
project items (d) and (e). The total cost of these items is estimated at
about US $740,000. Thus, betwJeen the Association and UNDP, approximately
85 percent of the cost of the project would be covered.
9.        The Government's application to UNDP wrill be formally submitted
to the Governing Council for approval in June 1971, with provision for
advance financing to enable the technical assistance team to be in the
field around May 1971. The Government and UNDP have requested the Bank
to act as Executing Agency for the portion of the project to be financed
by UNDP. The availability of UNDP financing and the employment of the
technical assistance team are conditions of making the development credit
effective.
10.       Most of the highway maintenance and workshop equipment, and
the spare parts connected therewvith, would be procured on the basis of
international competitive bidding. HIowever, for equipment and spare
parts estimated to cost about US $160,000 equivalent which are required
to rehabilitate existing equipment, international comDetitive bidding
would be unsuitable and quotations for supply would be requested from
selected manufacturers.
11.       The PWD, supported by the technical assistance team, would be
responsible for implementing the proposed project.
12.       The existing network of roads in the People's Democratic
Republic of Yemen is extremely limited. There are only 260 miles of
paved roads, of which 40 percent are in Aden. The remaining roads are
merely tracks. Because of the shortage of funds as well as of competent
road planning and maintenance staff, the existing roads are in need of
maintenance and highway maintenance and workshop equipment is partly
unusable for lack of spare parts. In 1969, a consulting firm did
detailed engineering of about 390 miles of roads without any prior
feasibility work and proposed uneconomically high construction standards.



- 4 -
The country therefore lacks satisfactory road plans suited to its present
and future needs, particularly those in agriculture. The proposed project
would provide the necessary technical assistance and training to improve
the staff, organization and operations of the PWD, would rehabilitate and
supplement existing equipment to enable effective road maintenance work
to be done, and would help to establish a proper base for a priority road
construction program. For this type of project, benefits are difficult
to quantify in financial or economic terms, but these are indicated in
qualitative terms in Chapter 5 of the appraisal report.
PART IV - LEGAL INSTRUMIENTS AND AUTHORITY
13.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the People's
Democratic Republic of Yemen and the Association, the Reconmendation of
the Committee provided for in Article V, Section I (d) of the Articles
of Agreement of the Association, and the text of a Resolution approving
the proposed Credit, are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately. The provisions of the draft Development Credit Agreement
follow the usual pattern of credit agreements for similar projects.
PART V - THE EC 010H
14.       An economic report entitled "The Economy of Southern Yemen"r
(No. EMA-24a) was distributed to the Executive Directors on October 23,
1970 (R 70-201). There have been no special developments since that
date which would effect the report's conclusions. A basic data sheet
is attached as Annex 1.
15.       Prior to independence in November 1967, the country's economic
life centered around the British military base in Aden and the oil refining,
bunkering and entrepot trade in the port of Aden. The loss of activity
from the port after the closure of the Suez Canal in 1967 and the termina-
tion of British budgetary support after independence in that year
confronted the Government ',fith severe financial difficulties. There was
an immediate decline in the output of goods and services, GNP fell by
one-third, and foreign exchange earnings by two-fifths. Per capita GNP
is estimated to be about US $100 equivalent at present. The discontinua-
tion of British budgetary support alone reduced the total Government
receipts by more than half. Unemployment rose sharply, especially in
Aden. In the succeeding years, the Government took rigorous measures to
cope with this difficult situation. By increasing the rates on existing
taxes, it managed to increase domestic revenues despite the fall in



national income. As a result, the budget deficit has been narrowed
down to manageable proportions. Howtever, the expenditure cuts were
made largely at the expense of public investment, which almost came
to a standstill.
16.       The Government aims at building a socialist society, in which
economic activity is corcentrated in the public sector with the private
sector confined to a subsidiary role.  As a Lirst step towards this objec-
tive, most of the foreign companies operating in the country (banks,
insurance companies, trading and shipping firms and local petroleum dis-
tribution companies) were nationalized at the end of 1969 and merged into
a newly created Economic Organization for the Public Sector and National
Planning. Under the nationalization law, these nationalized enterprises,
mainly owned by British, French and Indian nationals, are to be compen-
sated by the issuance of government bonds. A U.K. firm of independent
auditors of international repute has been engaged by the Government to
audit the accounts of the nationalized enterprises in order to determine
the compensation to be paid. This work is likely to be completed in the
near future. Government thereafter proposes to contact the parties
concerned in order to discuss the compensation to be offered.
17.       Because of the uncertainties surrounding the resumption of acti-
vity of the service trades and a limited physical resource base, the
economic report recommended that the country should concentrate its
efforts on developing a commodity production base, including some light
manufacturing industry, besides taking steps to exploit the existing
potential of agriculture and fisheries. A good transport system,
principally roads, is regarded as a key for such development.
18.       The possibilities for raising development funds and obtaining
trained manpower from within the country are limited. However, there
have been offers of aid, both in the form of low-interest-bearing loans
and technical assistance, from some Arab countries, USSR, Mainland China,
and some Western countizes. A sizeable UNDP program is underway in
agriculture, vocational training and highways.
19.       External debt statistics are in the process of being systema-
tically compiled. From the data already available it is apparent that
the external debt is small and the annual debt service in 1971 is esti-
mated to be less than 3 percent of export earnings. Nevertheless, in view
of the extreme constraints on the Government's budget and the balance of
payments, the rather limited resource base and the consequent limited
potential for future economic growth, Bank Group assistance to the People's
Democratic Republic of Yemen should be provided on IDA terms.



- 6 -
PART VI - COMPLIANCE WITH THE ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT
20.       I am satisfied that the proposed development credit would comply
with the Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VII - RECOMMENDATION
21.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
development credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
March 31, 1971
Washington, D.C.



ANi\]EX 3I
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEEN
BASIC DATA
Area:                                   290,000 square kilometers
(112,000 square miles)
Population:                             1.4 million (1969)
Rate of growth:                       2-3% per annum
Density per square kilometer:         5 (12 per square mile)
Gross National Product:
Total (1969):                         SYD 56 million (US $134 million)
Per capita GNP (1969):                approximately US $100
Gross National Product by Branch:       1965      1969      Change
(SYD million)     (percent)
Agriculture                            13        12         - 8
Industry                               12         6         -50
Transport                               8         4         -50
Trade                                  15        10         -33
Public Administration                  12         9         -25
Other                                  19        15         -21
Total GNP                              79        56         -29
Balance of Payment  (in million SYD):            1966         1969
Foreign exchange earnings, net                   34          20
Retained imports                                -55         -31
Balance on goods and services                   -21         -11
Transfer receipts                                15          10
Official loans                                    -           1
Changes in reserves                             - 4           2
Errors and omissions                             10         -2
Goverrment Budget (in million SYD):              1966/67    1969/70
Revenue                                          10          11
Expenditure                                      23          14
Deficit                                         -13         - 3
Foreign Aid                                      12           1
Foreign Reserves:                                    December 31,-1969
SYD million                                                  28
US $million                                                  67
IMF Position (in million US $):                      December 31, 1969
Quota                                                        22
Drawings                                                    none
Bank Position: Member of the IBRD since October 1969, and of the IDA since
October 1970.
Rate of Exchange:  1 Southern Yemen Dinar = 2.4 US Dollars
March 31, 1971



