CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 240 YDR
Development Credit
Agreement
(Highway Project)
BETWEEN
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED APRIL 21, 1971


﻿CONFORMED COPY
0
CREDIT NUMBER 240 YDR
Development Credit
Agreement
(Highway Project)
BETWEEN
0
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED APRIL 21, 1971


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 21, 1971 between PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of Part I of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by
extending the Development Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B)   The Borrower has also requested the United Nations Development
Program (UNDP) to provide additional assistance towards the financing of Part
II of the Project, and the UNDP has indicated its willingness in principle to provide
an aggregate amount equivalent to about six h-ndred eighty thousand dollars
($680,000);
(C)   The Borrower and UNDP have requested the Bank and the Bank has
agreed to act as the Participating and Executing Agency for Part II of the Project
under a Plan of Operation to be mutually agreed upon; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the foregoing,
to extend the Development Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions
hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the deletion of Section 5.01 thereof
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective


﻿4
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "Consultants" means the consultants referred to in Section 3.02 (a) (i)
of this Agreement.
(b)   "Technical Assistance Team" means the team of experts referred to
in Section 3.02 (a) (ii) of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to one million six hundred thousand dollars
($1,600,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as
such Schedule shall be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for Part I of the Project and to be financed under
the Development Credit Agreement; provided, however, that, except as the
Association shall otherwise agree, no withdrawal shall be made on account of
expenditures in the territories of any country which is not a member of the Bank
(other than Switzerland) or for goods produc-d in, or services supplied from, such
territories.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1974 or such other date
as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.05. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on May 15 and
November 15 in each year.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn from the Credit Account in semi-annual installments payable on each
May 15    and    November 15    commencing    May 15, 1981     and   ending


﻿5
November 15, 2020, each installment to and including the installment payable on
November 15, 1990 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of such principal
amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%)
of such principal amount.
Section 2.07. The currency of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project, or cause the Project
to be carried out, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with sound
engineering, financial and administrative practices, and in accordance with design
standards satisfactory to the Association, and shall provide, promptly as needed,
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. (a) (i) In carrying out Part I (u; and (b) of the Project, the
Borrower shall employ competent and experienced consultants under terms of
reference and upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association; (ii) the
Borrower shall employ or cause to be employed under Part 1I (a) of the Project
a competent and experienced Technical Assistance Team under terms of reference
mutually satisfactory to the Borrower and the Association; and (iii) the Borrower
shall not amend, assign, waive, suspend or terminate any contract entered into
pursuant to this paragraph so as to substantially affect the carrying out of the
Project, without the prior agreement of the Association.
(b)   The Borrower shall cooperate fully with the Consultants and the
Technical Assistance Team in the performance of their services for the Project
and make available to them all information relevant to the Project.
(c)   The Borrower shall, upon request from time to time by the Association,
cause the Consultants promptly to furnish to the Association copies of the
documents prepared by the Consultants for the Project, including reports and drafts
thereof, plans, designs, specifications, work schedules and estimates of costs, in
such number as the Association shall reasonably request.
(d)   The Borrower and the Association shall from time to time exchange
views with respect to the evaluation and implementation of the recommendations
and other conclusions contained in the documents referred to in the preceding
paragraph (c).


﻿6
Section 3.03. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwie agree, the goods
and services required for Part I of the Project (other than services of consultants)
shall be procured on the basis of international competition under procedures
consistent with the Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA
Credits published by the Bank in August 1969, and in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
(b)   The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make adequate provision for
the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery
thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity
shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to replace or repair
such goods.
(c)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used
exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
upon their preparation, the plans, specifications and work schedules for the Project,
and any material modifications or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association
shall reasonably request.
(b)   The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the
progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose the use thereof
in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's representatives to inspect the
Project, the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association all such information
as the Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project, the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and services financed out of such
proceeds.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records
adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting
practices the operations and financial condition, in respect of the Project, of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.


﻿7
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall, with the assistance of the Technical
Assistance Team, collect, record and analyze in accordance with appropriate
statistical methods and procedures such technical, economic and financial
information including traffic data as shall be reasonably required for proper planning
of maintenance, improvement and extensions of the national highway systems of
the Borrower.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall, with the assistance of the Technical
Assistance Team: (i) assess the appropriate level of annual investments in the
highway sector in accordance with the needs of the Borrower's economy; (ii) assess
the appropriate level of recurrent highway expenditures needed to enable the
Borrower to satisfactorily maintain its public highway system in accordance with
sound engineering practices; and (iii) investigate the various types of appropriate
road user charges which could be considered by the Borrower in order to increase
the contribution of the road sector to the national budgets for each future fiscal
year.
Section 4.04. (a) The Borrower shall provide in the annual budget for the
Borrower's fiscal year 1971/1972 an amount of at least 150,000 Democratic Yemen
Dinars for road maintenance and for each of the Borrower's fiscal years 1971/1972
and 1972/1973, a sum of 80,000 Democratic Yemen Dinars for the purchase of
spare parts for the workshops of the Borrower's Public Works Department.
(b)   Thereafter, but not later than March 31, 1972, the Borrower shall
appropriate from its annual budget for each of the following fiscal years such funds,
as may be consistent with the assessment referred to in Section 4.03 (ii) of this
Agreement.
Section 4.05. (a) The Borrower shall consult with the Association on the
recommendations and conclusions of the Technical Assistance Team and, in
consultation with the Association, shall initiate the implementation of a program
to improve the maintenance of its highway       system  in the light of such
recommendations and conclusions.
(b)   Upon completion of Part II (a) of the Project, the Borrower, in
consultation with the Association, shall review the progress achieved from said Part
II (a) and assess the need for further technical assistance.
Section 4.06. The list of the roads under Part I (b) of the Project shall
be agreed upon by the Borrower and the Association promptly after the feasibility
studies in Part I (a) of the Project have been completed and such list and the
list of roads included in Part I (a) of the Project shall be subject to change by
mutual agreement of the Borrower and the Association.


﻿8
Section 4.07. The Borrower shall take such steps as may be necessary to
ensure that the dimensions and axle loads of vehicles uing the national highway
system do not exceed the limits appropriate to the design standards of the highways.
Section 4.08. The Borrower shall, with the assistance of the Technical
Assistance Team, review transport rates and regulations and as soon as practicable
thereafter revise such rates where necessary with a view to ensure, among other
things, that they shall be reasonably related to costs of providing transport services.
Section 4.09. The Borrower shall take such steps as may be necessary to
ensure that the staff sent for overseas training under Part II (b) of the Project
remains in the Borrower's service for at least two years after completion of their
training.
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 5.01. The Borrower and the Association shall cooperate fully to
assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the
Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either
party:
(a)   exchange views through their representatives with regard to the
performance of their respective obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the administration, operations and financial condition, in respect of
the Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out the Project or any part thereof, and other matters relating to the purposes
of the Credit; and
(b)   furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such
information shall include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower, including its balance of payments,
and the external debt of the Borrower, of any of its political subdivisions and
of any agency of the Borrower or of any such political subdivision.
Section 5.02. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the operations and financial condition, in respect of the Project, of
the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.


﻿9
(b)   The Borrower shall promptly inform the Association of any condition
which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the accomplishment of the
purposes of the Credit, the maintenance of the service thereof or the performance
by the Borrower of its other obligations under the Development Credit Agreement.
Section 5.03. The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for
accredited representatives of the Association to visit any part of the territories
of the Borrower for purposes related to the Credit.
ARTICLE VI
Taxes and Restrictions
Section 6.01. The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes imposed under the laws of
the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.02. The Development Credit Agreement shall be free from any
taxes on or in connection with the execution, delivery or registration thereof,
imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.03. The payment of the principal of, and service charges on, the
Credit shall be free from all restrictions, regulations, controls and moratoria of
any nature imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
ARTICLE VII
Remedies of the Association
Section 7.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
shall occur and shall continue for the period, if any, therein set forth, then at
any subsequent time during the continuance thereof, the Association, at its option,
may by notice to the Borrower declare the principal of the Credit then outstanding
to be due and payable immediately together with the service charges thereon and
upon any such declaration such principal and service charges shall become due
and payable immediately, anything to the contrary in the Development Credit
Agreement notwithstanding.
ARTICLE VIII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 8.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 10.01 (b) of the General Conditions:


﻿10
(a)  The Consultants and the Technical Assistance Team    have been
employed pursuant to Section 3.02 of this Agreement.
(b)  The Plan of Operation referred to in Recital (C) of this Agreement
shall have been duly executed and delivered and the Governing Council of the
UNDP shall have agreed to finance Part II of the Project.
Section 8.02. The  date August 20, 1971   is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections 4.01, 4.02,
4.03, 4.04, 4.05 and 4.07 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the
date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date
twenty years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE IX
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 9.01. The Deputy Prime Minister for Financial and Economic Affairs
of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 9.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 9.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Deputy Prime Minister for Financial
and Economic Affairs
P. 0. Box 270
Crater, Aden
People's Democratic Republic of Yemen
Cable address:
Deputy Prime Minister for Financial
and Economic Affairs
Crater, Aden
People's Democratic Republic of Yemen


﻿*                                 11
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
By /s/ Abdul Malek Ismail
0A uthorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Simon Aldewereld
Vice President


﻿12
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the categories of imported items to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit and the allocation of amounts of the Credit
to each category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated               % of
(Expressed in             Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)        to be Financed
I.    Consultants' services          525,000            100% of foreign
for feasibility studies                           expenditures
II.   Consultants' services          400,000            100% of foreign
for detailed engineer-                            expenditures
ing
III.  Spare parts for exist-         200,000            100% of foreign
ing highway maintenance                           expenditures
equipment and machinery
IV.   Machine tools, commu-          325,000            100% of foreign
nication equipment and                            expenditures
related workshop
equipment
V.    Unallocated                    150,000
TOTAL         1,600,000
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of:
(a)   expenditures in the currency of the Borrower, or for goods produced
in, or services supplied from, the territories of the Borrower;
(b)   expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and


﻿13
(c)   payments for taxes imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws
in effect in its territories on goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture,
procurement or supply thereof.
3.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit set forth in the
second column of the table in paragraph I above:
(a)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall decrease,
the amount of the Credit then allocated to such Category and no longer required
therefor will be reallocated by the Association by increasing correspondingly the
unallocated amount of the Credit;
(b)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall increase,
a corresponding amount will be allocated by the Association, at the request of
the Borrower, to such Category from the unallocated amount of the Credit, subject,
however, to the requirements for contingencies, as determined by the Association,
in respect of any other expenditures.


﻿14
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is comprised of the following Parts:
Part I
(a)  Feasibility  studies, including preliminary  engineering based on
appropriate design standards, and economic viability, in respect of the following
proposed roads or such roads as may be mutually agreed upon by the Borrower
and the Association from time to time.
Approximate
Proposed roads:                                    Length (miles)
1.   Al Mukalla-Saywun and connecting
roads in the Hadhramaut Valley                     200
2.   Al Husn-Naqeel Al Kalla - Yemen
Arab Repiblic Border                               95
3.   As Said-Ataq - Nisab                                 50
4.   Ataq - Beihan                                       96
5.   Lawdar - Mukayras                                   25
6.   Thumair - Dhala                                     20
7.   Dhala - Yemen Arab Republic Border                   12
TOTAL             498
(b)  Detailed engineering, cost estimates, review of economic viability and
preparation of bidding documents suitable for international competition, for about
150 miles of roads, which will have been determined by the aforementioned
feasibility studies as having economic priority for construction and which are
mutually agreed upon by the Borrower and the Association for detailed engineering
following completion of the said feasibility studies.


﻿15
(c)  Purchase of spare parts for existing highway maintenance equipment
of the Borrower and miscellaneous materials for machine tools necessary therefor,
in accordance with a list to be finalized by the Borrower with the assistance of
the Technical Assistance Team and submitted for the Association's agreement by
not later than October 31, 1971.
(d)   Purchase of machine tools, workshop tools and equipment, service
station equipment, stores equipment, four mobile workshops and four four-wheel
drive vehicles of about 1-1/2 tons, and accessories and spare parts thereto, radio
and other communications equipment needed for the Borrower's Public Works
Department in accordance with a list to be finalized by the Borrower with the
assistance of the Technical Assistance Team and submitted for the Association's
agreement by not later than October 31, 1971.
Part II
(a)  Technical assistance to improve the organization    and highway
operations of the Borrower's Public Works Department and highway usage and
matters related thereto, through the engagement, on terms of reference mutually
satisfactory to the Borrower and the Association, of a competent and qualified
team of about five experts in the field of transportation.
(b)   Fellowships for the training abroad in the field of highway operations
and administration of up to eight members of the Borrower's Public Works
Department.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1973.


﻿16
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
Spare Parts, Workshop Machine Tools and Equipment and Communication
Equipment
1.    Identical or similar items will be grouped together wherever practicable for
purposes of bidding and procurement, and such groupings of items will be submitted
to the Association for its approval before inviting bids.
2.    Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, for
its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and other
bidding documents, together with a description of the advertising procedure to
be followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedure as the Association shall reasonably request. Any further
modification or addition to the bidding documents shall require the Association's
concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
3.    Before awards of contracts are made, the Borrower will send to the
Association for its approval an evaluation of the bids received and the Borrower's
proposals concerning the contract and award. If it is proposed to award the contract
to a bidder other than the one offering the lowest evaluated price, the reasons
for such proposal will be given.
4.    For certain minor items or groups of minor items, the total cost of which
is estimated not to exceed $15,000, international competition may be dispensed
with, provided the Borrower will send to the Association for its approval, details
of the proposed procurement procedures together with periodic lists thereof
indicating their expected price and the intended suppliers thereof.
5.    For certain items or groups of items tied to the make of equipment already
available with the Borrower and involving expenditures not to exceed $160,000
unless otherwise agreed between the Borrower and the Association, international
competition may be dispensed with, and quctations for the supply of such goods
will be requested from selected competing suppliers, where possible. The Borrower
will send to the Association for its approvai details of the proposed procurement
procedures together with lists of the items or groups of items and their expected
price and details of the suppliers selectee for quotations.
6.    If a contract shall be awarded over the Association's objection or if its terms
and conditions shall, without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from


﻿17
those on which bids were asked, no expenditures thereunder shall be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit.
7.    Two conformed copies of each contract will be sent to the Association as
soon as signed and before submission of the first withdrawal application thereunder.


