Document of
The World Bank                        FILE COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2766-ME
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN.
TO
NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S. A.
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
UNITED MEXICAN STATES
FOR THE
APATZINGAN IRRIGATION PROJECT
May 9, 1980
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Since September 1, 1976 the Mexican peso has been floating; it has
fluctuated around Mex$ 22.60 to the US dollar since mid-1977. On April 1,
1980, the peso traded at 22.60 per US dollar.
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
2
1 hectare (ha)                         10,000 m  = 2.47 acres
1 kilometer (km)       2               0.62 miles
1 square kilometer (km )          =    0.39 sq. miles = 100 ha
1 kilogram (kg)                   =    2.2 pounds
1 liter (1)                            0.26 gallons
1 metric ton (mt)                      1,000 kg = 0.98 long ton
ABBREVIATIONS
BANRURAL:   National Rural Credit Bank
(Banco Nacional de Credito Rural)
CAEVA:      Agricultural Experimental Station for the Apatzingan Valley
(Campo Agricola Experimental para el Valle de Apatzingan)
COPLAMAR:   Commission for Marginal Areas
(Comision para las Areas Marginadas)
ERR:        Economic Rate of Return
FIRA:       Agricultural Trust Fund of the Bank of Mexico
(Fideicomisos Instituidos en el Banco de Mexico en Relacion
con la Agricultura)
ICB:        International Competitive Bidding
LCB:        Local Competitive Bidding
NAFINSA:    Nacional Financiera, S.A.
PEMEX:      Mexican Petroleum Company
(Petroleos Mexicanos)
PIDER:      Integrated Program for Rural Development
(Programa Integral para el Desarrollo Rural)
PLAMEPA:    On-farm Improvement Plan in Irrigation Districts
(Plan de Mejoramiento Parcelario)
PNDR:       Plan for Small Scale Agricultural Infrastructure Development
(Programa Nacional de Desarrollo Rural)
SARH:       Ministry of Agriculture and Water Resources
(Secretaria de Agricultura y Recursos Hidraulicos)
SHCP:       Ministry of Finance
(Secretaria de Hacienda y Credito Publico)



MEXICO                      FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
APATZINGAN IRRIGATION PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:           Nacional Financiera, S.A.
Guarantor:          United Mexican States
Beneficiary:        Secretariat of Agriculture and Water Resources (SARH)
Amount:             US$160 million equivalent
Terms:              Payable in 17 years, including 4 years of grace, at an
interest rate of 8.25 percent per annum.
Project
Description:       The project would promote development of intensive
irrigated agriculture on about 110,000 ha in the State
of Michoacan, in Irrigation District No. 107, through:
(a)   construction of the Chilatan dam, on the Tepelcatepec
river, in the western part of the valley;
(b)   rehabilitation of the existing Cupatitzio system
in the eastern part of the valley, with a possible
back-up for diverting additional water from local
streams;
(c)   construction of distribution and drainage systems,
rehabilitation of diversion structures, and irriga-
tion canals and drainage works, construction of
feeder roads and other infrastructure works to
service the irrigation district;
(d)   land clearing on about 11,500 ha and land leveling
of about 74,000 ha of the project area;
(e)   strengthening of agricultural support services
(extension, research and training); and
(f)   equipment and machinery for operation and mainte-
nance of the project facilities.
The project would directly benefit 9,806 families compris-
ing 8,889 ejidatarios 1/ and 917 private farmers. Of the
beneficiaries, 61 percent have holdings of 10 ha or less;
32 percent between 10 and 20 ha each; the remaining 644
holdings, about 7 percent, are larger than 20 ha each.
On full development, farm incomes would increase by 60
to 100 percent in the project area. There are no major
risks associated with the project because of the Mexican
experience with irrigation and dam building.
1/   Ejidatarios are members of an ejido, a form of group land tenure based
on usufruct.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated Cost:                                         US$ millions          % Foreign
Local  Foreign  Total  Exchange
I. Civil works
and engineering           128.5   82.6    211.1        39
II. On-farm development
and agricultural
extension                 23.3   12.1       35.4      34
III. Equipment for operation
and maintenance            0.3    3.3        3.6      92
IV. Indemnities                   5.6     -        5.6       -
V. Total Baseline Cost         157.7   98.0    255.7       38.3
VI. Contingencies
Physical contingencies    22.8   16.0         38.8      41.0
Price contingencies         68.3   46.0    114.3        40.2
TOTAL COST                 248.8  160.0    408.8        39.1
Financial Plan:                                     US$ millions        %
Government                        248.8         61.0
Bank                              160.0         39.0
TOTAL                          408.8         100.0
Estimated
Disbursements:    Bank FY            1981  1982  1983  1984  1985  1986  1987
------------- US$ millions -------------
Annual              7    13    24    36    41    29        10
Cumulative         7    20    44    80   121   150    160
Rate of Return:       15.5 percent
Staff Appraisal
Report:            Report No. 2915-ME dated May 2, 1980.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMNENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.A.
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF UNITED MEXICAN STATES
FOR THE APATZINGAN IRRIGATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to Nacional Financiera, S.A. with the Guarantee of United Mexican States for
the equivalent of US$160 million to help finance the Apatzingan Irrigation
Project. The loan would be repaid over 17 years, including 4 years of grace,
with interest at 8.25 percent per annum.
PART I: THE ECONOMY I/
2.        The Mexican economic situation and major issues of economic policy
were analyzed in "Special Study of the Mexican Economy: Major Policy Issues
and Prospects" (2307-ME), distributed to the Executive Directors on May 30,
1979. The most recent economic mission visited Mexico in February 1980 and
is now preparing its report. Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
Past Performance
3.        For the three decades preceding the mid-seventies, Mexico was very
successful in achieving rapid economic growth while also maintaining stability
in prices and the balance of payments. From 1940 to 1970, GDP growth exceeded
6 percent per year in real terms, inflation averaged less than 5 percent per
year from the mid-1960s to 1972, and the dollar value of the peso, fixed in
1954, was maintained until 1976. The Government's economic role in this
achievement was to carry out direct investments in infrastructure and in key
industries such as power, steel and petroleum, while creating a stable regula-
tory and institutional framework, as well as good profit prospects, to induce
private sector growth.
4.        This strategy produced considerable progress and better living
standards for many Mexicans. The absolute income levels of the poorer house-
holds rose more or less apace with those of their richer countrymen, but there
was little reduction in contrasts within the Mexican economy. While land
redistribution has continued, most of the peasants who received land could
not significantly improve their economic status as they received only limited
benefits from infrastructure, credit and technical assistance. Rapid popula-
tion growth which reached a peak of almost 3.5 percent per year by the mid-1970s,
made social equity even more difficult to achieve. Even Mexico's sustained
economic growth was not sufficient to absorb the rapidly growing labor force in
productive employment and by the 1970s some 50 percent of the labor force was
either relatively unproductive and poorly paid, or openly unemployed.
1/   This section is substantially unchanged from the President's Report for
a Small and Medium-Scale Mining Development Project (Report P-2735-ME
of March 6, 1980).



- 2 -
5.        During the 1970s Mexico experienced increasing public sector
deficits, inflation, large balance of payments deficits, capital flight and
a marked slowdown in the real rate of growth of GDP, which dropped to less
than 2 percent in 1976--the lowest rate experienced since the mid-thirties.
On September 1, 1976 the authorities abandoned the fixed exchange rate of
12.50 pesos per dollar that had remained unchanged since 1954 and let the
peso float; since then it has remained rather stable at rates fluctuating
around 22.60 pesos per dollar. Following the devaluation, Mexico obtained
major support from the IMF. The new Government ratified a three-year extended
facility agreement with the Fund shortly after taking office on December 1,
1976, and was generally successful in adhering to it.
Recent and Current Situation
6.        The present Government inherited a difficult situation.  High
inflation, large public sector deficits, increasing foreign indebtedness
and lack of confidence in economic management indicated a need for economic
stabilization. However, the situation also called for more expansionary
policies; economic activity had slowed down, net private investment was
virtually nil, and the gap between new job creation and growth of the labor
force was increasing. Rich new petroleum discoveries and high world prices
offered profitable investment opportunities in the petroleum sector; indeed,
increased production for export of these products seemed by far the only way
to meet a large part of Mexico's high debt service requirements in the coming
years.
7.        Faced with these conflicting needs and opportunities, the Mexican
authorities adopted a mixed strategy aimed at reducing lower-priority public
expenditures and increasing public revenues, while proceeding with petroleum
and other high-priority investments. The objectives of the Government's
program included control of inflation to be followed by a return to high
rates of economic growth. Better management of public sector expenditures,
tax reform, more rational pricing and cost control in public sector enter-
prises, promotion of private savings, limiting wage increases to justifiable
levels, and more effective cooperation with the private sector were important
parts of the Government's economic strategy.
8.        This approach succeeded in bringing inflation down to 18 and 20 percent
in 1978 and 1979, respectively, as against an annual rate of almost 30 percent
in 1977. The deficit in the current account of the balance of payments peaked
at $4.2 billion (or 6 percent of GDP) in 1975 and declined to $1.9 billion
(equivalent to 2.5 percent of GDP) in 1977. Favorable oil prospects and
increasing capital inflows brought about a rapid increase in imports reflecting
both the resolve to reduce protectionism and the growing demand for capital
and intermediate goods upon which the expansion of the economy depends. The
current account deficit increased to US$2.9 billion (or 3.1 percent of GDP) in
1978 and further to an estimated US$3.8 billion (under 3.5 percent of GDP)
in 1979. The public sector deficit also peaked at about 9 percent of GDP in
1975 and declined to about 6 percent in 1979. Mobilization of savings by the
banking system has recovered at a strong pace. GDP growth is estimated at
about 7 percent in 1978 and 8 percent in 1979 as compared to less than 1 per-
cent in 1977.



9.        The growth outlook for 1980 continues to be favorable and the
economy should increase at about 8 percent, but inflation will remain a
problem, essentially as a result of investments which are increasing at a
rate of more than 15 percent a year in real terms. These investments call
for continued increase in imports of capital and intermediate goods and, while
foreign exchange will not be a constraint on account of the recent increases
in oil prices and the strong creditworthiness of Mexico in international
capital markets, the import program will put a severe strain on the existing
infrastructure capacity, especially ports and rail transport in which bottle-
necks already exist. Additional strain on the transport system is likely to
come from the large imports of grains as a result of a bad crop this year.
10.       Another threat to the efforts of the Government in reducing inflation
below 20 percent may come from the wage area. The recently agreed increase in
the minimum wage of about 21 percent, after three consecutive years of decline
in real wages, while not automatically reflected in the total wage bill, is
likely to establish a floor in union bargaining within the modern sector and
contribute to a cost push which might be passed on to consumers.
11.       The Government will not have an easy task in maintaining price
increases within acceptable limits. The cumulative increase in the consumer
price index in 1980, through March 31, of about 9.5 percent, resulting in
part from seasonal factors and in part from the newly introduced value-added
tax, may adversely affect expectations about inflation. At the same time,
the need to expand public investment in the key infrastructure sectors and
to maintain in real terms the current programs in the en:rgy sectors, leaves
relatively little scope for significant adjustments in tie level of public
expenditure.
Economic Problems and Prospects
12.       Mexico has the institutional and natural resources necessary
to attain her ambitious goals of rapid growth and alleviation of poverty.
The short-run disequilibria that affected the country during the mid-70s are
being brought under control; the new petroleum riches will greatly relax
the financial constraints on growth. The proven oil and gas reserves are
estimated at about 50 billion barrels. Exploitation of these reserves should
allow Mexico to substantially increase production of crude oil and natural gas
from the equivalent of about 1.2 million bbl/day in 1976; the stated goal
of the Government is to reach a production level of about 2.5 million bbl/day
by end of 1980, and more or less maintain it at a level that will enable
exports of 1.1 million bbl/day. The challenge is how Mexico can mobilize its
resources--not only petroleum but also its human skills, institutions, and
experience--to help resolve its long term development problems. The most
serious of these relate to poverty, unemployment, stagnation in agriculture,
and urban-regional imbalances.
13.       Poverty:  Mexicans have unevenly participated in the remarkable
economic growth of the last several decades. According to preliminary esti-
mates for 1977, at least 2.4 million households (22 percent of the total)
lived in absolute poverty, while at least 2.8 million (25 percent of the total)
had incomes less than one-third the national average. The root causes of this
persistent problem are three: rapid population growth, past neglect of rainfed
agriculture (where some two-thirds of the poor are principally employed), and
slow absorption of labor in high-productivity jobs (mostly in industry).



-4-
14.       The Government is acting on all three fronts.  A family planning
program, started in 1972, has already helped reduce population growth from
3.5 percent per year to an estimated 2.9 percent at the present time. The
program is being further strengthened by the present administration, with the
ambitious goal of reducing population growth to 2.5 percent per year by 1982
and to 1 percent by the year 2000. New approaches are also taking hold in
regard to rainfed agriculture (see para. 17). On the employment front, new
tax incentives have reduced the anti-employment bias, and the expected rapid
growth of output should also create jobs more rapidly. In spite of this
progress, however, the rapid growth of population and of,the labor force made
unavoidable by the high percentage of children in today's population, renders
the eradication of absolute poverty a goal attainable only several decades
from now.
15.       Open and hidden unemployment, which are now respectively at 8-9
percent and 40 percent of a labor force which is growing at about 3.7 percent
per annum, will remain major problems in the years to come. With the expected
GDP growth rate of 8 percent p.a. the economy will be able to absorb the
additional labor force, assuming no significant change in the participation
rate (now at about 29 percent) and taking into account an increase in labor
productivity. In absolute terms the present level of under employment and
unemployment are therefore likely to remain.
16.       An Employment Development Plan was published early this year.
It calls for a number Jf measures to strengthen the so-called informal sector
both in the urban and the rural areas. To increase the productivity of those
employed outside the modern sector, and their employment opportunities, a
major effort will be required in the area of vocational training. Technical
assistance programs are also needed to stimulate more organized and structured
forms of activities,.especially in the services sector. While there is no
doubt that the authorities are concerned about unemployment and underemploy-
ment, and while the institutional structure to carry out some important
programs already exist, a concentrated effort will be required to take effec-
tive action and make better use of human resources by substantially reducing
the level of hidden and open unemployment.
17.       In agriculture, crop and livestock production has shown little
growth since the mid-1960s. Faced with diminishing returns to expensive
new large-scale irrigation works, as well as the continuing low productivity
(and income per capita) in the non-irrigated ("rainfed") sector, the present
administration has re-organized the parts of the Government that deal with
agriculture in order to design and implement a new strategy. This strategy
emphasizes production increases through a balanced development program.
Greater emphasis is being placed on technical assistance, demonstration,
and credit to develop the underutilized rainfed agricultural potential.
Programs to rehabilitate existing irrigation serving nearly one million ha
are underway. Small-scale irrigation development is being promoted. Construc-
tion of new large-scale irrigation units continues at a relatively reduced
scale as economically justified projects are now more scarce. The banking
system is being encouraged to provide greater support to agricultural production



- 5 -
and processing programs.  These initiatives should lead to an acceleration
of production growth, more equal development opportunities for Mexico's
farmers, and an improvement in the living conditions of the rural poor.
18.       The main urban-regional problems are two-fold:  (a) growing conges-
tion, pollution, high-cost services (especially water) and other manage-
ment problems that stem from continued rapid growth of Mexico City (already
the third most populous metropolitan area in the world) and other areas in
the dry, densely populated central plateau, and (b) retarded development,
poverty and great difficulty in providing either better jobs or adequate
public services for the one-third of all Mexicans who live in towns of less
than 2,500 inhabitants. The present Government has taken many positive steps
to confront these problems, including an administrative re-organization,
elaboration of a comprehensive plan, and introduction of a strong package of
incentives to promote growth in a few well-selected growth poles.
19.       The expected high growth rate of the economy in the years to come
is the country's strongest weapon to reduce poverty and unemployment. Industry
will be a leading sector in expanding domestic production and exports. A
National Industrial Development Plan was published last year and it reflects
the serious effort of the present administration in identifying the long-term
prospects of the industrial sector and its implications for the employment
picture. Industry has the potential for considerable expansion in many areas,
including efficient import substitution in chemicals, petrochemicals and
capital goods as well as exports of many different manufactured products. The
Mexican Petroleum Company (PEMEX) has already started an ambitious investment
program to produce a variety of primary petrochemicals on a large scale for
both domestic consumption and exports anid an equally vigorous expansion is
expected in investment for the production of secondary petrochemicals.
Touirism export earnings are also expected to increase substantially.
20.       A National Development Plan is in preparation.  This plan would mark
the final step in the planning activities which the current administration
has undertaken in order to obtain a more structured picture of the economic
and social problems facing the country. In the past two years, a National
Urban Development Plan and the already mentioned Industrial Development and
Employment Plans have appeared; the forthcoming National Development Plan aims
at formulating a national development program reconciling the sectoral targets
and making them consistent with the general economic and social strategy of
the Government and with the availability of domestic and foreign financial
resources.
21.       Mexico's public and publicly guaranteed debt service ratio has been
increasing over the recent past and peaked above 60 percent in 1978-79.
This high ratio reflects the low level of exports relative to GNP and the
high proportion of Mexican borrowing from commercial banks; the ratio of
external public debt to GNP is average for middle-income countries. The
public debt service ratio is expected to decline to around 40 percent in the
early 1980s, mainly as a result of rapid increases of petroleum exports. Debt
service on Bank loans amounted to about 2.8 percent of public debt service in



-6-
1978; this ratio is projected to remain about the same during the early and
mid-1980s. The Bank currently holds about 5.5 percent of Mexico's total
medium and long-term public debt, and this ratio is not likely to change
significantly over the next few years. Mexico is creditworthy for borrowing
on conventional terms.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MEXICO I/
Bank Operations
22.       As of March 31, 1980, Mexico had received 62 loans from the Bank
amounting to US$3,635.9 million net of cancellations and terminations;
of these, 36 loans totalling US$1,710.4 million were fully disbursed. On
March 25, 1980, the Executive Directors approved a US$40.0 million loan to
assist a Small- and Medium-Scale Mining Project. The Bank presently holds
US$3,029.2 million of which US$1,238.0 million have not yet been disbursed.
Some 38 percent of Bank lending has been for agriculture and rural development
(20 loans for US$1,356.4 million), 20 percent for power (12 loans for US$704.8
million) 19 percent for transportation (13 loans for US$666.7 million), and 17
percent for industry (10 loans for US$687.5 million); the remaining 6 percent
has been for water supply (US$130 million), tourism (US$114 million), and
urban development (US$16.5 million) projects. Annex II contains a summary
statement of Bank loans as of March 31, 1980 and notes on the execution of
ongoing projects.
IFC Operations
23.       As of March 31, 1980, IFC had made investment commitments in
19 companies in Mexico, for a total of US$250.8 million, of which US$168.5
million had been sold, repaid or cancelled. A summary statement of IFC
investments as of March 31, 1980, is presented in Annex II.
Bank Strategy
24.       The main objectives of Bank lending in Mexico have been to:
(i) support policies and programs leading to a wider distribution of the
benefits of economic growth; (ii) help finance projects that make directly or
indirectly, significant contributions to output and employment; and (iii) help
resolve critical adjustment problems that Mexico is currently facing. There-
fore, the Bank is preferentially supporting projects of high social priority
that help the rural or urban poor, projects that promote higher levels of
employment and production and those that help to decentralize economic activity.
1/   This section is substantially unchanged from the President's Report
for a Small- and Medium-Scale Mining Development Project (Report
No. P-2735-ME of March 6, 1980).



- 7 -
25.       Because of the difficult structural problems of Mexico's agricul-
ture and the sector's crucial importance to the country's further development,
the Bank has made agriculture the leading sector for its lending. The Bank's
agricultural lending program for Mexico has four goals: first, to increase
productivity of presently cultivated lands through selected programs of irri-
gation rehabilitation and on-farm improvements; second, to improve the pro-
ductivity of small farmers through programs for (a) rural development,
(b) rainfed agricultural development, and (c) bringing new areas in the humid
tropics under cultivation; third, to complement infrastructure investments
with general support services including agricultural extension and marketing
programs and provision of medium-term credit; and fourth, to promote employment
opportunities in rural areas through programs of agro- and rural-industries.
The Bank has made eleven loans in FY74-79 totalling US$1,012 million for
irrigation, rural development and agriculture, agro-industries and livestock
credit programs. Several projects for water control and irrigation, rainfed
agriculture, rural development and support services and agricultural credit
are in preparation, one of which (Agriculture Credit VII) is expected to
be ready for presentation to the Executive Directors in the coming weeks.
26.       Past Bank lending for industry has been aimed at (a) assisting
the Government's efforts to reduce the balance of payments deficit, (b)
decentralizing industrial activities away from the major and increasingly
congested urban areas and (c) promoting greater employment in the sector by
supporting medium- and small-scale industry. A steel project which the
Bank helped structure and finance is now operating in a previously under-
developed area on the west coast of Mexico. The fertilizer sector has been
strengthened by two Bank assisted projects which the state-owned fertilizer
company (FERTIMEX) is carrying out. Loans for projects to promote the develop-
ment of small- and medium-scale industrial enterprises and to support an
industrial equipment fund (FONEI) were approved by the Executive Directors in
FYs78-79; they offer support to the private sector at a time of rapid expansion.
The Executive Directors recently approved a project for the mining sector which
up to now has received insufficient resources from the financial system. A
small and medium scale industries project has been appraised and will be sub-
mitted to the Executive Directors in the coming weeks. A capital goods
industry project is under discussion for possible Bank support.
27.       As regards infrastructure, the Bank's operations have been focused
on investments in key areas of the country as well as on institutional reforms
and sector policies aiming, inter alia, at suitable pricing mechanisms to
help generate additional resources for investment financing. The airports
development project (FY74) was designed to support the Government's policy
of regional integration; the third railway project (FY76) supported improve-
ments of institutional aspects and financial management of the sector. The
Mexico City (FY73) and medium cities (FY76) water supply projects have been
instrumental in the establishment of specialized institutions for efficient
provision of drinking water and in the pricing of water at levels more closely
related to costs. A highway sector project was approved by the Executive
Directors in FY79. A medium-size cities water supply project has been
appraised and a railways project is currently under discussion for possible
Bank support.



28.       The Government and the Bank have long recognized the regional
economic disparities prevailing in Mexico. In June 1976 the Government
adopted the Law of Human Settlements to provide a new institutional frame-
work to deal with the pressing problems of over-cor.;-itration of economic
activities in the larger metropolitan areas. The Government has recently
adopted a National Urban Development Plan that spells out its regional develop-
ment priorities in operational terms, and several projects are now being
prepared to meet the needs for basic urban services for poor families and to
provide key regional infrastructure in selected priority cities. One such
project, to assist in the development of the Lazaro Cardenas conurbation area
on the West Coast, was approved by the Executive Directors in FY78, and
another project for the southeast part of the country has been appraised.
29.       The Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) is the second largest
source of multilateral aid to Mexico. The IDB has made loans totaling
US$2,148 million to December 31, 1979. Over sixty percent of this lending has
gone for agricultural and rural development projects, and the balance for
transportation, industry, and tourism infrastructure. In 1979, the IDB
approved five loans totaling US$251 million for industrial credit, irrigation,
human resources, highways and export promotion projects. The IDB and the Bank
have worked in parallel on several projects; most recently the IDB and the
Bank have each made loans for the National Program for Small-Scale Agricultural
Infrastructure, the Program for Integrated Rural Development (PIDER), agricul-
tural and livestock credit, small- and medium-scale industries, and hotel
development. The International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD) is
processing a rural development project in the state of Oaxaca which was
appraised by the Bank's staff.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Background
30.       Agriculture is the most important source of income for Mexico's
rural population of approximately 24 million. It employs about 34 percent of
the labor force in the country, despite increasing migration to urban areas.
The sector sustains about 4 million families, of which 1.3 million are land-
less. The number of landless families is increasing because of the limited
availability of farm land. The majority of the primary sector labor force,
however, is engaged in activities with very low productivity, with about
two-thirds of agricultural labor earning incomes below the minimum wage.
31.       Agricultural external trade remains favorable and exports in 1979
amounted to about US$1.78 billion, or 20 percent of the total merchandise exports
(almost 35 percent of non-oil exports), while the share of agricultural imports,
US$0.83 billion, in total merchandise imports was about 7 percent. However,
the combined effect of rapid population growth and the declining growth in
agricultural production has resulted in a significant increase in food imports,
particularly of corn, wheat, sorghum, and oilseeds.



-9-
32.       The Mexican agriculture is marked by wide disparities in resource
endowment, technology, productivity and income. As a consequence of the wide
range of conditions in the country's two million square kilometers, Mexican
agriculture is characterized by sharp contrasts, such as that between the
subsistence farms in the Sierras and the technology intensive commercial
farms in the western irrigated zones. Comparing the 0.2 million modern
farms with the 1.5 million subsistence farms at the other end of the
spectrum, income per ha in the former is 2.7 times of the latter, and
income per capita about 20 times as high.
33.       Since adoption of Government policy to promote irrigation and the
creation, in 1946, of the Secretariat of Hydraulic Resources, three different
phases can be distinguished in the development of agriculture. During the period
1945-55, crop production grew at a rate of 7.3 percent per annum; most of the
rapid increase coming from opening nearly 110,000 ha per annum to intensive
irrigated cultivation. The growth of livestock production during the same
period averaged 3.7 percent per annum, resulting in a combined growth rate of
6 percent for the sector as a whole. In 1955-65, the expansion of irrigated
land declined to about 65,000 ha per year, and agricultural and livestock
production sector expanded at a more moderate rate of 4.2 percent per annum.
Since 1965, the cropped area has remained constant at about 15 million ha.
Agricultural production grew only at a yearly average of 1.4 percent between
1965 and 1978, while livestock production continued to expand at about
4 percent per annum. Along with progressive deceleration in growth of irriga-
tion facilities, the share of agriculture in national GDP has declined from
14 percent itl 1965 to just over 9 percent in 1978 (or about 11 percent of the
non-oil GDP).
Government's Policies and Programs
34.       The present administration has perceived the dimensions of the
problems of the sector and has stated its commitment to improve the living
conditions of the poorer sections of the rural population and to focus on
agricultural diversification. Self-sufficiency in grains is still one of
its main goals, although its achievement by the end of the current six-
year term is now considered somewhat unrealistic. The strategy is based
on obtaining higher productivity in existing lands and expanding the cropped
area, both irrigated and rainfed.
35.       In order to achieve both self-sufficiency and improved living
standards, the Government has designed a strategy aimed at making fuller use
of water and land resources, giving priority to rehabilitation of those irri-
gation districts where infrastructure is inadequate or land is in poor con-
dition. The rehabilitation programs have received important support from
Government agencies, the Mexican banking community, and participating farmers.
New lands are also expected to be brought into production, mostly under
rainfed conditions; increasing attention is being given to rainfed agri-
culture through the 123 recently established rainfed districts. The Govern-
ment has given high priority to integration of technical assistance and
extension services with marketing and credit in rainfed areas. The Bank has



- 10 -
worked closely with Mexican officials in preparing the recently appraised
rainfed agriculture development project in support of the national rainfed
district's program. The program is designed to increase farm production and
productivity, generate employment, provide technical assistance and improve
rural infrastructure. The Government is also taking action to meet the needs
of the indigenous population and of the people in marginal areas, expanding
significantly the program of the Commission for Marginal Areas (COPLAMAR) to
extend infrastructure support and public services (such as health, water,
schools, and food distribution) to these groups.
36.       Additionally, the strategy for development in the agricultural sector
calls for investment in training, applied research, rural infrastructure, irriga-
tion, land clearing, access roads, as well as marketing and storage facilities.
To reduce income disparities in the rural areas, the Bank has supported an
integrated approach along these lines by participating in the Integrated Program
for Rural Development (PIDER) and the National Plan for Small Scale Agricultural
Infrastructure Development (PNDR). Furthermore, to provide impetus to agricul-
tural development, the Government has substantially increased credit resources
for production and investment purposes.  Also, it has taken measures to
strengthen the credit and technical assistance delivery systems as well as to
promote participation of private banks. Through its credit program, the Govern-
ment is also making resources available for the promotion of agroindustries.
37.       In parallel, the Government is bringing new areas under irrigation
and improving availability of water and its management in the existing irriga-
tion districts. The proposed project would support rehabilitation of an
important irrigation system, contribute to increased crop and livestock produc-
tion and increase employment opportunities in the area.
Experience in Previous Projects
38.       In the past six years (FY74-79), the Bank has made 11 rural develop-
ment and agricultural loans amounting to US$1,012 million:
Irrigation (Panuco, Sinaloa, Fuerte/Sinaloa and
Bajo Bravo/Bajo San Juan) - US$291 million;
Rural Development (PIDER I and II and Papaloapan
Basin) - US$280 million;
Credit (V and VI Project) - US$325 million;
Area Development (Tropical Agriculture)
- US$56 million; and
Small-Scale Agricultural Infrastructure Develop-
ment - US$60 million.
As noted in Annex II, by and large, these projects are progressing satis-
factorily. Implementation of the above-mentioned irrigation projects was
delayed mainly because of budgetary constraints. Accentuating these



- 11 -
delays were large cost increases unforeseen at appraisal done prior to oil
price increases of the mid-1970s. The Government and the Bank jointly reviewed
these problems and agreed that the projects be financed over a longer period
of time. This review led to reformulation of the Bajo Rio Bravo/Bajo Rio San
Juan project with cancellation of US$100 million from the origina± loan of
US$150 million. A supplementary loan of US$25 million was approved by the
Executive Directors for the Panuco Irrigation Project on July 11, 1978.
Sinaloa Irrigation project was redesigned, and the Bank made a new loan in
FY79 for additional works in Sinaloa and the adjoining Rio Fuerte irrigation
districts.
Operations Evaluation
39.       Beginning in 1961, eight irrigation projects have been supported by
the Bank. Four of these have been completed, two of which have been audited
by the Operations Evaluation Department (OED). One of these two--Third
Irrigation Project (Loan 450-ME of May 1966)--has been revisited by an OED team
for impact evaluation. The observations of the two OED audit reports 1/ and
the impact evaluation report 1/ are summarized below:
-    On balance, both projects have been very successful, as the
ex post economic rates of return exceeded the appraisal esti-
mates (except in a section of the Third Project, accounting
for 17 percent of the investments). Original project objectives
have been exceeded in terms of production, employment and social
benefits of strengthening commercialization and industrialization
of ejidos. The Third Project led to more equal income distribution
in its area of influence.
-    Both projects suffered from delays in implementation and cost
overruns.
-    Quality of project design, appraisal, management and supervision
are important for success of the project. OED reports emphasize
the importance of joint programs for exploitation of ground and
surface water resources of the project area.
-    Under the Third Project, the Borrower had not fully com-
plied with conditions regarding controlling groundwater
extraction, recovery of operation and maintenance in part
of the project area and recovery of additional investment
charges in the whole project area.
1/  1.   Project Performance Audit Report:  Mexico Third Irrigation Project
(Loan 450-ME); SecM76-147; March 8, 1976.
2.   Mexico Rio Colorado Irrigation Project (Loan 527-ME); SecM79-498,
June 29, 1979.
3. Mexico Impact Evaluation Report: Third Irrigation Project Report
No. 2559 of June 18, 1979.



- 12 -
40.        Experience with past lending for irrigation projects has influenced
the the proposed Apatzingan Irrigation Project. Technical services and
on-farm investments are now included in project costs and sensitivity analyses
are being made for construction delays and for changes in costs and benefits.
Bank staff have also become more involved in project preparation. Special
efforts were made by the Government and the Bank to ensure proper design for
this complex Apatzingan Irrigation Project and coordinated exploitation of
ground and surface water resources (see para. 45) of the project area. Also,
based on the previous experience in Mexico, the planned implementation period
for the project has been extended from a proposed five-year period to six
years.
41.        The Bank has completed audit reports on the first four agricultural
credit loans to FIRA, and a completion report on the fifth loan is now being
prepared. The trend of agricultural credit operations has been characterized
by increasing lending to lower income producers, increased emphasis on crop
rather than livestock production, and emphasis on sector orientation in
project design. Altogether, the credit loans have absorbed US$600 million
of Bank funds.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
42.        The proposed project was prepared by the Planning Division of
Secretaria de Agricultura y Recursos Hidraulicos (SARH) with the assistance of
a Mexican consulting firm. After a preparation mission in June 1979, appraisal
took place in November/December 1979. Negotiations took place in April 1980.
The Mexican negotiating team was headed by Mr. Arturo Ortiz and included repre-
sentatives from Secretaria de Hacienda y Credito Publico (SHCP) and Secretaria
de Agricultura y Recursos Hidraulicos.
43.        The Staff Appraisal Report (No. 2915-ME) of May 2, 1980 is being
distributed separately to the Executive Directors. A brief description of the
project may be found in the Loan and Project Summary at the beginning of this
report. (Please see the attached map for location of the more important
works.) Annex III provides supplementary data on the project.
44.        The project is part of a long-term  program  to develop water manage-
ment and agriculture in the densely populated Balsas river basin of the
central zone of Mexico. The Apatzingan area (197,000 ha) of the Balsas
basin has a population of about 280,000, of which 47 percent is rural.
Of the 26,800 rural families, 17,000 are landless; about 8,900 hold land
in "ejidos" and 920 have private land titles. Balsas basin is the hinterland
of the rapidly growing industrial port of Lazaro Cardenas (around 18 percent a
year population growth), and is in close proximity of several tourist centers
including Acapulco and Ixtapa-Zihuatanejo. Along with creating greater
off-farm employment opportunities, one of the objectives of the Government is
to promote intensive agriculture and stock raising in this area. The growing
market within the region along with easy availability of labor and the potential
large water resources justify such a strategy.



- 13 -
45.       The present irrigation works in Apatzingan area are in poor state of
maintenance and operation, and serve only a part of the land in the irrigation
district, leading to low cropping intensity and poor yields. Potentially the
area has access to 3 billion cubic meters of water a year, and the rehabilitated
project will uLilize 70 percent of this potential, or about 2.1 billion cubic
meters, consisting of 250-300 million cubic meters pumped from the aquifer and
the balance drawn from a large reservoir to be created on the Apatzingan river
at Chilatan and from several small rivers. As stated earlier (para. 40), the
project is based on integrated planning of surface and ground water. The
alternative of postponing the dam and reservoir and of making greater use of
pumping from the aquifer was studied and discarded; at the economic cost of
energy (over US$0.06 per kwh), the pumping system would yield lower present
value of incremental net benefits than the combination of ground water extrac-
tion with gravity canals from the reservoir constructed under the project.
46.       The project involves three broad types of activities.  One:  Chilatan
dam, reservoir and other civil works related to main canals, distribution
network and drainage system. About 80 families will be relocated from the
reservoir area and detailed plans for their rehabilitation were reviewed
with the Government during negotiations. Two: land clearance (11,500 ha) and
land leveling (74,000 ha) that will enable more efficient use of the irriga-
tion water. Three: Technical assistance.
Technical Assistance
47.       Agriculture extension services are provided by SARH, complemented by
a research service provided by the agricultural experimental station for the
area (CAEVA). The proposed project would support expansion and strengthening
of the extension services through the establishment of six extension centers,
intensified and additional staff training in improved maintenance and oper-
ational procedures, and studies for expansion of irrigated agriculture in
the basin.
48.       A new extension program will be prepared by the Irrigation District
and would be similar to that developed for the Rio Fuerte and Rio Sinaloa
projects. The program would include technical assistance packages prepared
by CAEVA covering use of improved seeds, land preparation, fertilization,
and insect and disease control. Also included in the program would be dem-
onstration in farmers' fields for application of research results from the
experimental station and for establishment of a quick feedback to the
researchers for further improvement of the effectiveness of the extension
program. The technical assistance program would also include livestock and
pasture specialists to assist livestock farmers to expand and improve irrigated
pastures. Their efforts will be directed mainly at the development of dual
purpose cattle (milk and meat) in the project area. Because of the availability
of training facilities inside and outside the region, recruitment of trained
personnel would not be a problem.



- 14 -
49.       PLAMEPA would provide farmers with a much needed service.  Teams
would be formed to make soil and topographical surveys at the farm level.
They would prepare plans and supervise all works related to on-farm irriga-
tion, land levelling and drainage. This activity would assure that each
farmer's irrigation and drainage system would be operating at the level
needed to obtain the highest possible results and efficiencies.
50.       Assurances were obtained for adequate agricultural credit being
provided, mainly by BANRURAL, to support the farming activities under the
project (Section 3.07 of the draft Guarantee Agreement).
Marketing
51.       Adequate marketing, storage and transportation infrastructure exist
in the project area to meet the substantial increase in production resulting
from the project. The growing urban population in the region will provide a
ready market for these products. The extension staff would relay timely
marketing and price information to project beneficiaries.
Project Implementation
52.       The project would be implemented by SARH through its regular channels.
The Office of Major Infrastructure Programs in the District would have lead
responsibility for project execution. Within the office, specific teams would
manage project planning, design, and construction phases. These teams are
supported by specialist staff of SARH from the State and national headquarters.
Responsibilty for operation, maintenance, and administration of completed
works would rest with each chief of an irrigation district. The chief would
be head of an executive committee consisting of farmer representatives and
technical staff from related Government agencies. The head of infrastructure
programs and of the irrigation district would report to the State representa-
tive of SARH. This mechanism promotes delegation of responsibility to the
field level while allowing appropriate central management.
Accounts and Auditing
53.       SARH would maintain separate accounts to reflect the financial
situation of the project, and would provide the Bank an annual summary state-
ment (draft Guarantee Agreement, Sections 4.02(a) and (b)). Such accounts are
subject to periodical internal audits conducted by a special audit division of
SARH, in accordance with Government practices.
Dam Design and Safety
54.       An independent governmental body of recognized experts on dam design
and construction, called Consultivo Tecnico, is functioning since 1962 with
the responsibilities of reviewing the adequacy of all dam designs prepared by
SARH and carrying out periodic reviews during final engineering and construc-
tion of these structures. This group is fully capable of performing the
duties required by Bank guidelines on dam design and safety. In relation
to the project, their responsibilities will be to review the final design
of the Chilatan dam, continue with periodical reviews during final engineering
and construction stages, and make recommendations for maintenance, inspection
and safety of the dam during its operation.



- 15 -
Operation and Maintenance
55.       There is a Maintenance Section in the Irrigation District, but it
lacks suitable equipment, which has resulted in poor maintenance of the
irrigation works and facilities. The project would provide adequate main-
tenance equipment to help improve the maintenance program.
Monitoring and Evaluation
56.       Monitoring and evaluation is routinely conducted by staff of each
irrigation district as a part of its program of operations. Basic data, the
most important of which concern cropped areas, cropping patterns, water use,
yields, prices, operation and maintenance activities, extension activities,
ground water levels, progress of work and reservoir storage are collected
and used in the management of the districts.
57.       Additionally, monitoring and evaluation of the proposed project
would be an essential component during and after the development period.
Operation and management would be handled by the Office of Drainage and Irri-
gation in the Irrigation District. Likewise, the technical assistance program
wouild be monitored and evaluated primarily through monthly reports prepared by
the Extension Service. The reports would be concerned, first, with the exten-
sion agents, and, second, with progress of the farmers. Because each unit
would have social workers, sociologists and economists, family budget data
would also be secured.
58.       Quarterly reports on the progress made on construction, operation
and maintenance, agricultural development and the technical assistance program
would be available to the Bank for review and comments. Not later than one
year after the completion of loan disbursements, a project completion report
would be submitted to the Bank (Section 3.04(c) of the draft Guarantee Agree-
ment).
Project Cost and Finance
59.       Total project costs are estimated at about US$409 million, of which
US$160 million would be foreign exchange cost and financed by the Bank. The
Bank loan would thus finance 39 percent of total project costs and the balance
would be financed by the Government through standard budgetary allocations.
Approximately US$6.2 million from the loan amount would be earmarked for
agricultural extension services and other technical assistance to enable
close monitoring of these important activities.
Retroactive Finance
60.       To accelerate project implementation, retroactive financing of
ul) to US$2.5 million is proposed for preparation of final design of the
Chilatan Dam, preparation of bid documents, construction of roads, work
camps and land leveling and clearing. To be eligible for retroactive
financing, such activities would be contracted in accordance with Bank guide-
lines (draft Loan Agreement, Schedule 1, Section 3).



- 16 -
Cost Recovery
61.       Project costs would be recovered through a combination of water
charges, income taxes, and production taxes.
62.       While previously water charges were set at low levels and large
subsidies were provided to irrigation districts, the present administration
has moved to increase water rates and make the districts more self-sustain-
ing. The Government's policy is to recover the full cost of operation and
maintenance through volumetric water charges and, in addition, to recover
as much as possible of investment costs through levies from private farmers and
up to 30 percent from ejidatarios. The portion of investment costs recovered
will be set after completion of a socio-economic study of the district to
determine the beneficiaries' capacity to pay. This study is normally conducted
after the district begins to supply water to the fields.
63.       Assurances were obtained that the Government will collect water
charges to recover: (a) the full cost of operation and maintenance, and
(b) that portion of capital costs which is reasonable in light of the bene-
ficiaries' capacity to pay. The portion of capital cost to be recovered would
be determined after review of a study to be carried out by SARH and submitted
to the Bank by December 1985. The study would be periodically updated and
water rates appropriately revised (draft Guarantee Agreement Sections 4.04(a)
and (b)).
Procurement
64.       About 85 percent of the contracts for the principal irrigation and
drainage works, amounting to about US$342.5 million would be procured by
international competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with the Bank Guidelines.
Civil works, insofar as possible, would be grouped into contracts having a
minimum value of US$2.0 million. To expedite the construction of civil works,
small jobs (telecommunications, buildings, houses), which, because of timing
or nature of the work, could be better handled if not included in major
contracts, would be contracted under local competitive bidding (LCB), following
ordinary Government procedures. The maximum value per contract would be
US$0.22 million, with the total of all such contracts not to exceed US$50.0
million; about US$20.0 million from the loan could be disbursed for works
covered by such contracts.
65.       Contracts for on-farm development works, about US$40.0 million,
would be procured under local competitive bidding, or through negotiation
following Government procedures which are satisfactory to the Bank. SARH
will provide engineering services and supervise such contracts. It is
intended that large tracts of land and part of the reclamation of new
lands be included in the packages of ICB contracts.
66.       The estimated cost of vehicles, farm machinery and equipment is
about US$7.2 million, of which about US$5.0 million would be subject to
international competitive bidding. A 15 percent margin of preference
or the applicable import duties, whichever is lower, would be allowed for



- 17 -
equipment and vehicles produced in Mexico. About US$2.8 million worth of
minor equipment would be procured by local competitive bidding on the basis of
the Government's procurement procedures which have been reviewed by the Bank
and are satisfactory (Schedule 2 of draft Guarantee Agreement).
Disbursements
67.       The proposed loan is equivalent to the overall estimated foreign
exchange cost of the project; the disbursement percentages for the respective
categories reflect convenience of disbursement and monitoring rather than the
precise estimates of foreign components of the individual items. Disbursements
would be made on the basis of 42 percent of expenditures for civil works,
on-farm development, and engineering, 40 percent for technical assistance, and
90 percent of total expenditures for machinery and equipment for operation and
maintenance. The loan is expected to be disbursed over a six-year period from
September 1980 through December 31, 1986. A schedule of estimated disburse-
ments is provided in the Loan and Project Summary.
Project Benefits
68.       The table below summarizes some of the important changes that will
occur as a result of this project.
Without Project       With Project
Overall Improvement
1.   Cultivated area (ha)                    97,300            108,800
2.   Total cropped area (including
multiple cropping) (ha)               94,100            158,400
3.   Total agricultural and livestock
production (thousand mt)                 559              1,044
(us$ million)               32.9               80.2
4.   Agriculture labor requirements in
a year (million man-days)        2.5                3.9
Improvement in Efficiency
5.   Cropping intensity                        96%                 158%
6.   Change in product mix
(value of one mt of product in
US$ thousands)                          58.8               76.8
7.   Agricultural productivity
(production mt per ha of
cultivated area)                        5.7                9.6



- 18 -
The project is located in a thickly settled area with about 27,000 rural
families of which 17,000 are landless and dependent on seasonal farm employ-
ment supplemented, to a large measure, with income from off-farm jobs.
Farm employment, on full development of the project, is estimated to increase
by 56 percent, from 2.5 million man-days per year to 3.9 million man-days.
The project will provide fuller employment to family members of smallholders
and generate employment opportunities for the landless rural families. However,
the pressure of population and unfavorable land/labor ratio in the project area
call for a strategy of intensive, irrigation based, agricultural development.
Potentially the area has access to 3 billion cubic meters of water, of which
about 2 billion cubic meters would be utilized by year 10 of the Apatzingan
project. The proposed loan would assist studies for future investments in
the area.
69.       About 91 percent of the beneficiaries are ejidatarios.  The table
below summarizes the land tenure in the project area:
Above 50
Type of    Up to 10 ha          10-20 ha           20-50 ha    (average 100 ha)        Total
Farm     No.   '000 ha    No.   '000 ha    No.   '000 ha   No.    '000 ha   No.  '000 ha
Ejido    5,580      35    2,987        36     322       11       -         -     8,889    82
Private    418       2       177        2      122       2      200       20       917    26
Total    5,998      37    3,164        38     444       13      200       20     9,806   108
About 61 percent of the beneficiaries are small farm holders, having less
than 10 ha each.  Another 32 percent are medium landholders with up to
20 ha each. Both these categories in Cajones and Tepalcatepec will double
their annual family incomes on full development of the project, and those in
Paracuaro zone of the project will increase their incomes by 60-65 percent.
of the remaining 6.5 percent farmers, 4.5 have holdings of up to 50 ha each,
and 2 percent over 50 ha each (on the average 100 ha); their incomes also
will double in Cajones and Paracuaro, and increase by 80 percent in Tepalcatepec.
The Government intends to recover from the larger landholders in the project
area their share of the investment costs through water charges and incremental
revenues.
70.       The proposed project would expand the cropped land from 97,300 to
about 109,000 ha and increase the cropping intensity to about 158 percent.
Furthermore, the project would have indirect favorable effects on the Apatzingan
region through the stimulation of agroindustries involving extraction of oil
from oilseeds and the utilization of the cake for animal feed.



- 19 -
Economic Evaluation
71.       The economic rate of return (ERR) for the project is estimated at
15.5 percent. Sensitivity analysis shows that the rate would remain accept-
able at 12.5 percent, if project costs were to increase by 10 percent and,
at the same time, benefits were to decrease by 10 percent. A switching value
test was also performed and indicated that if total project costs would
increase by about 23 percent, or benefits were to decrease by 22.5 percent,
the project's ERR would still be 12 percent.
Environmental Impact
72.       The project is not expected to have any harmful effects on the
environment.
Risks
73.       The project design took into account the potential problems relating
to: (a) unsatisfactory state of maintenance of the irrigation systems; (b)
the insufficient availability of water in the El Cajones System; (c) over-
watering; and (d) water logging. Adequate operation and maintenance plans
are being formulated for project facilities; alternative solutions for efficient
water use in El Cajones and use of local water sources have been developed;
design of drainage systems to minimize overwatering along with programs to
monitor the wells have been suggested, complemented with the training of
farmers to make judicious use of the water. These measures would minimize the
potential problems involved. There are no major risks associated with the
project.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
74.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and Nacional Financiera,
S.A., the draft Guarantee Agreement between United Mexican States and the
Bank, and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section
4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately.
75.       Special conditions of the project have been described in Part IV of
this report and are listed in Section III of Annex III.
76.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.



- 20 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
77.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
by Ernest Stern
Attachments
May 9, 1980



ANNEX I
- 21-                                                    Page 1 of 5
tAJLE 3A
MEXICO - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SNCET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AYIR.MES
LAND AREA (TROUSAtO SQ. X)                       CO                              MOS- N0T RECENT ESTIlMATE)!
TOTAL            1972.5                                                    SAME         SAME    MNM  RIGHEI
AMRICULTURJ      944.9                                  teST RECENT      C1OGLCW9IC   INCOmE         SNCOtE
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b       REGION /I   CROUP /d   GCWUP it
GNP PEIR CAPITA (us$)                 380.0        7to.0    1290.0            1124.4     1097.7       1942.6
ENeRGr CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAWIS OF CCAL EQUIVALeNr)     770.0       1047.0    1227.0            943.1       730.7       1646.7
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEART (ILLIONS)      36.4         50.3      63.3
URAn  POPULATION (PERCEN  OF TOTAL) 50.3          59.3      63.2            59.3        49.0         51.2
POPULATION PROJZCTIONS
POPULATION IN TEAW  2000 (MILLIONS)                      116.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                         204.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REAoC                     2075
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                        18.0         26.0      32.0             23.5        44.6        28.2
PER SQ. QM. ACRICULTURAL LAND      36.0         52.0      67.0             80.5       140.7       100.5
POPULATION ACE STRUCT     (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          45.6         46.5      45.9             40.9        41.3        35.4
15-64 YRS.                          51.0         50.0      50.6             54.4        55.3        56.3
65 YnS. AND ArOVE                    3.4          3.3        3.5             3.9         3.5         5.1
POPUATiON cGowTR iRATE (PRC )
TOTAL                               3.1          3.3       3.3              2.4         2.4          1.7
URBAN                               4.9          4.8       4.6              3.7         4.5         3.0
CRUDE RIRT I RATE (PER THoDSAND)     45.0         42.0       38.0            32.8        31.1        27.5
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER rITOUSAND)      12.0         9.0       8.0              8.3         9.2         9.1
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               3.2          3.1        3.0             2.4         2.2         1.8
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS. ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)        ..         25.1     608.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARIED WOMEN)    ..             ..      21.0             17.7        34.7
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)           87.5        100.0      96.1             99.4       104.4       102.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                   107.0        105.0     117.0            107.0       105.0       120.8
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           65.0         65.0      66.9             60.4        64.4        80.9
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        29.0         28.0/f    27.3             28.3        23.5        31.3
CHILD (ACES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE      14.0          9.8       6.0              6.7         8.6          5.1
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT B1RTH (YEARS)    58.0          62.4      64.7             63.6        60.2        65.6
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                            78.0         74.0        ..             76.1        46.7        45.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                *-         54.0      62.0             63.4        60.8        69.4
UR3AN                                *          71.0      70.0             79.5        75.7        85.1
RURAL                                ..         29.0      49.0             38.6        40.0        43.0
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENrT
OF POPULATEON)
TOTAL                                 ..          ..         ..            58.8        46.0        70.1
UR3AN                                ..           ..                       77.8       46.0         98.3
RURAL                                *-         13.0      14.0             Z4.5        22.5        33.2
POPUlATION PER PHYSICIAN           1700.0       1440.0        ..           1841.9      2262.4      1343.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON           ..      1570.0        ..            933.7      1195.4       765.0
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
1OTAL                            1900.0        930.0     860.0            563.4      453.4        197.6
UR3Af                                ..        780.0     770.0            279.4       253.L       260.2
RURAL                                ..       1310.0   1090.0            1140.9     2732.4       1055.0
ADNIssIONS PER dOSPITAL BED            ..           ..         ..            25.7        22.1         17.3
3OUS*NG
AVERACE SIZE OF HOUSESOLD
TOTAL                               5.4          5.7         .              5.0         5.3         4.7
URBAN                               5.7          5.7        ..              4.8         5.2         4.4
RURAL                               5.2          5.8        ..              5.3        5.4          5.1
AVERAGE NUsNER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
-TAL                                2.9          2.5        ..              1.3         1.9         1.1
'URAN                               2.6          2.2        ..              1.3         1.6         1.2
sRUAL                               3.4          3.2        ..              1.5        2.3          1.2
ACCZSS TO -LECTRICIT  (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                               ..         59.0        ..             54.3        50.0        66.0
URBAN                                ..         0.?        ..             80.1       71.7         S5.I
SURAL                                ..         28.0        ..             14.2        17.3



ANNEX I
-22-                                                               Page 2 of 5
TABU 3A
XICO - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA ShZZT
MRXco                     RZFIUNCZ OU0LPS (ADJUSTED A^ILACES
-MOST RECENt *5STIMATt)-
SAME        SAME      NKXT HIlCHER
MOST UCENT       GIOCURAIC    DJCOtt        INCOME
1960 /b     1970 /l  RSTIMATE /b       RZCIOF /c   GROUP /d    CtOUP /a
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ZOLLtZNT RATIOS
PflIAIT:     TOTAL                  80.0       104.0      116.0            107.3       102.5        101.7
KALE                  82.0        107.0     116.0            109.1       108.6        110.0
FMJALS                77.0        102.0     114.0            107.4        97.1         92.8
SECOtDUAT:   TOTAL                  11.0        22.0       37.0             40.5        33.5        51.2
FF62.                 14.0         27.0      40.0             40.4        38.4         36.4
Ff148Z                 8.0         17.0      34.0             39.0        30.7         43.7
VCATIoUWL CN1OL. (2 0  SZ0WlDAIT)  24.0           24.0        ..             18.5        11.3         18.3
PWPLM-TIAI1 RATIO
PRItULY                           44.0         46.0       46.0             37.1        35.8        27.1
SECONDAILY                         13.0         14.0       17.0             17.9        22.9        25.3
ADULT LITERACY KATZ (PERCENT)         65.0         74.0      76.0             77.4        64.0         86.1
cotIsursPTioN
FASSENGR CAIS PnL THWSAND
POPULATION                          14.0        24.0       41.6             29.1        13.5        53.4
RADIO RECZIVCSI PSI TIOUSAND
POPVLATION                          95.0       276.0      301.0            172.1       122.7       225.9
TV RECEIVERS nPl THOUSAND
POPULATION                          19.0        59.0       84.0             67.9        38.3       102.6
NEWSPAPER ('DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PEE
THOUSAND POPULATION                   79.0          ..         ..             76.1        40.0         78.3
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PEQ CAPITA 10.0           5.0        4.2              4.2         3.7          3.6
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (T9OUSANDS)    11300.0       13000.0   16600.0
FEMALE (PERCEIrT)                   15.2        17.4       18.5             21.5        25.0        24.3
AGRICULTUU (PERCENT)                55.1        39.4       34.0             30.2        43.5        28.9
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  19.3        22.9       25.0             23.8       21.5         30.6
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 30.2         28.8      28.8             30.9        33.5         33.8
KALE                                  51.1         47.4      46.8             47.3        48.0         51.3
FEMALE                                 9.2        10.1       10.7             13.3        16.8        16.3
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.6          1.9       1.8              1.5         1.4          1.3
INCOME DISTRI8UTIol1
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED RY
RItCHEST 5 PERCENT OF ROUSENOLDS   28.7/h       27.9       23.9             23.7        20.8
RICHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSZhOLDS  58.37W        58.3       54.4             58.7        52.1        57.6
LOWEST 20 PERCEtlT Oe IOUSEROLDS    3.s7W        3.4        2.9              2.9         3.9         3.4
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   10.37iW       10.3       10.4              9.9        12.6        11.0
POVERTY TARKI'r 1:R WPS
ESTIMArED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URRAN                                 ..          ..      270.0            265.6       170.0
RURAL                                ..           ..      216.0            185.1      183.3
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..          ..      332.0            396.3      282.5        550.0
RURAL                                 ..          ..      332.0            308.1      248.9        403.4
ESTIMATED POPULATION 9ELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..          ..         ..             35.2       20.5
RURAL                                ..           ..         ..             46.6       35.3
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/s    The adjusted group averages for each indicator are Population- eighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
oslues of che ladicacor and the nova  p.uIated country in each group.  Coverage C, . 11cries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is zot uniform.
lb    Unless  therswise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year betveen 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
snd 1971; and for M4ost Recent Ismate, between 1974 and P477.
c  Latin Amrica 1 Caribbean;  /d  int.rndiste hiddle Income (S551-1135 per caplt.,  1976);  /e  Upper
M iddle Income ($1136-25.0)  per capita, 1976);  If  Av. 1964-66;  /g  Data refer to rural health centers only;
/h L963.
host Recent Estimate of CN7P per capita is for 1978.
August, 1379



- 23 -                                                                        ANNEX I
oha g s~W. MIxCANU                                                                 Page  3 of 5
let.   Attsog  th  dta  redets  from a ooe  geroerib  Jdged the  -t Hothottatlr  .4 roliable, it ohmsod aiao be mted t1st they eq  not be iotedTha-
~I~sl1ye~e.hleb-m. of to. 1-ok Of  t-ad.Odld dsWtiatome ed eme"ut  -". bT' differet os tis.   -11ollott,4 the data. Th. dots w., m,9thti-.,
oaeftal to docrihe orders of   eoltnod, lodleto t.od., en4 obert-i-a  osetals   2o  dlfferinse  hbtwe   estries.
Th. adloeted -.--    for a..OO Ladlnt-r                                      S-trioatoonlhtd5501  -e., ooludta  tk. .-t-  ve,oo  of the  oioa..or .5  the  -t popolate
..tryL. .h V-I.   D-to look of data, gessp  --ga.  of  1  iodi-ntar  foe Cepital SmI..oa  O1l E.Poe1e   ed of   410.0cr-  of A0.-5 t Watr sOd FOReta
DiWpocl. Honoin, 1-             D1. ltphiotlo  hOo %-vwy for other .-mtry grSop. ur  pop latibo-oighjtei ge~tro mo  ~itho,ot ssouoia  of the satrsm  valoie and
t.he m.t pc5lat.d .o-otty.  Sia. the ovapof coutries 500  the iodioatcra 4MMA4  on  -oi.lbilltY  of tt. aed is o.                         ofcn  caaion mot bs erisOd
he niatn    vsa    of c.   ni-ot.? to sOth.,.  Ibseaessee  o,ojflaaoritooof'oqt?rbstenootn the valoos  ofo
loam ARIA (thoao.eot etha.)                                    Aooosstodroreta~~~~~~~~~~~D.p.g.gg1jJpsycet of popltion) - ntota. trba. an  rra
-F-j    Total eofoo  a..oer d 10d ore  sod inl1nd oat..'..                                    Nb 1oef eoiIl)0t.l,ob-  . so    -Iral   --d by  oetdips  n
UAariculn-ol -  Voet -set es%tlet  of ogicutoat-.  ore  used t.aporaily                    p*rosot..es of their rsPective Pplp,lti.o.  oEbr.ta d! o, .el eq  100104
or p.-mostly for  -rpe, potoes   ak.t 0.d 40t0h.  gardOt   Os to                         th. ocoletib. and dispos l,tth or  ith-t0 tr.atfOt, -. Ona  soorta
U.e falo.                                                                                 od nate-eter by flitr-born   sytm.  or the use of pit privies   ad sai-le
~113 PERCU  ~ S$)- GN PC p-bita ..timntto  at ouvet 5,kst pbi...,                     9Puw g4ti      uf  i4ie-    PoPoation divided by ootr of preotiilg physician
i15)Ia±.d by .a.   --lsrboestd   WOorld eA-k Atio  ~1975-77 baot.);                       qo,iti6TdRg   im.   -..  .h-00  at  siveroity Jev-l.
1960, 1970,-50  19177 dftS.                                       -                                  V-toato   e  DoomIng Pees0n. - falatio  divided by ootso- of preotielae eaL.
Wso   rzuff   PDM CAMIA - en..-Lon.etoof er11 wsgy                                 m-A fol5. SeAdot.  -S..s, p?0tLe.1 mor... Iend sasletat 00?505.
colad Itel.,    -I-o.., ontua1 g00 ed hydroc, ooo.u  and go-                     Ppaalc   .   opita  badi  total. utb!n,oo   rurl   Popoolation  (tota, urba,
ibsesm   electicity) inOlogro     of ..oal eqoo ,a-t per oapito; 1960,               .6ra)divdd  -ytei  sPeci.n                      ro  ho pit.1 bed.  -iObl.b1L.
1970, and 1976 doaV oblit  end pri-toe   g-er,  ed epevilised h..tpitt1 and -ehoilit.tiio.. eOs
H.osplt4al  mo  ..tshble.nt. psoseetly stePfd by at la.-t coo phy.i.i-
POPU1ATIOU AIFD offAL 3TAT5d1C2                                                               Zatb0lik.-t. p-oviding  prinoipalp ototdial car.  r            t oi.looded>  Rosal
~~~~~~~~wu .  - A. of Jo1ly 1; 1960, 1971, and                                      b.spitso, howeve, 1i01.4. healti and medicl Oet.rs Oot p0..astly  tarffd
IR77d*t                                                                                  by_a phyalo.n~ (buot by o mdioa .1      lean,  o.., midife, etc.) whioh offer
Uib-             t  f tA~~.11    .      f urba  to total popooati.ootL opatien   -.-o5dtdio and pr-od. a Ilj.tod rSn   of -asOll faoilitie..
dIiff.r7eot-ds-flit1oeof73r-ben 00  eq effect oompenbil.ity of dat.                    Ada.4-oa,  ork OHepitbYL Bed - Total -tO- of Odm.i...o to or dieoh00sse fro
sf4_    ootrg  s  10,1970, end 197  data.                                                h.icpta   divded by   emb.r Of bd.".
PopooAt onIIY.-mr10  - forret pooosprojotiooe  -r batod co                            "JING
Eiol.h641)5sby eo end  no and tOslo frOl1ty 00  ferility                       All,ag  iO ofhoebld ornspr  ocehi -tta.uban  end ruzral -
rae.Potetio, pso.intsr  for soetllty rt.o ia of thrSO                            A  osoodcsiteo 'ro,fldvi,01   0    br  lco    oot    0
levels           li,o.  f. -Vepetancy  t birth 10-?eaolg  itto oo-otry,s               tooi, mn ama..  A bordar or lodgr -q  or eq  act be i-cldOd 1. toe
P.r otpite i00cm. lee, ed f-.1o Life  .Ietwoy stobilliaag at                           h-hoehld for etatitical prposee..
77.5 year.  Ths ;,oeat-r  for f-rtility rate aec hav  thre  lIv-l.                   Ac!feg  tomb.? of ceea           om-tta.r               ra oel-Aemsnno
a.omls  decli.s 10 fertility accordlig to booS- level ad peat                         ofproopr om1                   0ra, so  rural occuMie I    Ovetiol  oaUe.
enily clooala  pororT    -s  Eho cosotry is t000 atoig.od oe of toese                  -po,etA?i-y,  Disoliage  -oclde ooa-peom,nt Otruturs  and onocopi.d pmo
0100  -bi-tln-  of -rtoity and fertility tread. for pro-sti..                       All,. to flcrot   crsto   olig)  - tot    0000   0.1  rural-   on
l005-  5.v0tool  ollog    it  oetrioty1   1145atr .                                                                                                     pt,  ate,;o
statloc  opb`wletito - To.      t.iOO   wtR.latio  toO.-  L. to 00th                     tot.1, o-bo, sod rurs  doseligo  ss1 oolvlp
0000?- the birth r-te 10 spoo  to the  .0.th rote, and aSO  the age
btrortr -rnatsocttot. ThIs 10  hollerd oly site? fertility rates                EitDATIIN
deobo  to tie repleOOt leve  of ..ot cot reproootioc rate,  ,h..                    dtoe oclmntPto
-ah goscertio  vi ees  r        -lce  .toif  -oatly.  The sttioaocy PoPo-              Irmr   col-ttl01   o   .as-500ttl  -al  ed romle  nol
totlc ooe  eo erl.tedon  he baeio of the prjt.Otd obrrebro                        eco   l  gsa  h    re~lvlt   eoose    f respet,ivepsr
ofthepopolt-  io the year 2D00, so dth  rate of 1-1.o  of fertility                    coolepopolatloe ..m. .l  iclde   hildren aged 6-11 y-e-ro  ut
rate to reisesntlee.                                                                     odj000td for differ-t 1-sgtho of primary edobo; for  -utriee cith
Yes ztatiocar  colti. to rearhed - rhe year ta   stationary popsoition                       --sveas  sdcolo   orolm t oy exced 1hO  peren   ibe   -o  pupils
ole -a be  rehbiv.                                                                  a- teoz     r     -hv  the offlolal adhco1 age.
Po.o,liaoios County                                                 Snooo~~~~3 d-oy e-eno  _o-nS, sale ad-em       - Sopten.bov-;aeooday
Pe   t   n      i-yre  poopoitioo per ots-  oilonter 1 ItNO ctar-.) of            educatios rursat le..t fo-  year  of  ppro-d Pria-r   -torotiot;
total soot                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~prorde. genra   -oti ...l, or teoher tr-.Iog  i.tr-tioas for popil.
Per s~     j~~uslln       vptda   bo-  for egri-ltoal lend                                 uzo11y of 152 to 17 T-m,  of age; ooree..Dnd-.nce  .ore  are ge.         rl.
o-1y.                                                                                    e-olded
)15-lyeas),  nd  etird  05 yeas . d o 0e) topersts    of sid-year                 tecbital, indutrol, or other progr..  Mhih bpsrts o-dp-sdetly or 
poyosatiioo; 1960, 1)72, eni 19"7 iOta.                                                    depa-t.et  of sscsdory iotltotloa-
toocol.tbo  iroG~th Oat<,I   t0p    .t..30b   A domo oost rate, of total -id-              9opi1-t..h.or ratio-Pie,  o  secoda   - Total atudet,  -orold 10
ysm, P-'tlatoofo   t5hO    75-i   n  1970-77.                                               pLeoY sod seodr   ees dodd by  -b.-,erao  teachers io the  cer
'Pi.t itbo  lroOt  Onte               -b-'t, 00  ,  005  groot  rte. of orbs                 spoedig lI.-l.,
9P,lIio                              -a 90-b   70-  n  L9"i-'5.                          Adult lit-r-o r-ts (per,nt, - Z,terat. odlt.   blle to red tod -rite) 
CZrude tslth Rob   p9er 1tbhcueotd) -otA-I Lire birtho per thoood of eid-                     np-roetog  of total adult P.P"taioo aged 15 year.adoer
year RPolobi.... 1_015, 197. aDd 137 into.
Crude Dentb Rote  Per thboboenol_ A- 50.1 ..eatb. per toot-o  of oid-y-a               COSNUMPi720
75p-psoat,b.l 1-)60.   6SM,   d977, itab.                                              Pee        Cr0  Pe  tbou-ad  .poelntion) -                                -to ar   opie .0to  c,.
hr -0Oproout too Rob-Aergetite   feinughters t,- coso iU Itbear                            setwn Ie.ton eight perso....  eD-oe   mclno,basssd   ilitary
--ortowa  repr-du-ti -Perid 'f  le  oP-riec -,-rset age-                             vehicle.
b97t, add -757.                                                                          Arso.tt4orlRoioprtosn   f popsoltio; ...ludee  -ib-.elsd
Foxily~ Pl.rdtoo   ; Aocvpt-r   A-Ion   -boad.  - Annua  ste?  of                          r-eveeito            -s?e  sd i. y-57  oh.a  Ieiotrotno   ai   eso
aooeptor  of birth,-octr-  te-b-e  -oe   upi-e  of .atlotal fenlfefo;2t   o   .rtyasmpotO  oopma I - sic                                                    t oatie.
pla-io   Progr-n                                                                         sooltobd  -ic-.lg.
Fsmhiy 01.0010g - VersReoct of1 oard 0000  -cer-ectag  of -rrvle                                  ....eler  o..r t1-000  ,pOpultion) - TV  feeiee  o  broedret to genra
of  ih  i-boatu   ae t .,er ob   0   lt-ctt   er.p010Per_                                        oeo   ouaio   oldsollsodi   scvr   r  core
ttI  r-i5o enet  1  os    ge grop.                                                   end -o year  eo rglctrstIoa of TV aets soa   boaffeot.
FOOD AND VITyplF:tI                                                                          of'a'gnvlitrs   eoae'   eIe   oaProioal publicato
Lades  f 700  Prdotiasr Cnpitn  1963-Tl-1O0) -IDdeo of per -pitO                           devted p,bfrby to r--odiag gearaloe.   tt   -icdered to he 'daly'
- .1 P-~ti-       fLl fOod  ton .ite. Prcdotibos               ..lue    e  sod      if it aPe.-. at lot fOO  ODi- aveD
feed d -  I    ., on  nedar yea  boos.  C-oditles 00-0  prifl.y gOOd.                    Oa0001AtnAc   t   aiaorta-bsdo  h                                  tro   Ikt
e.g.roeatan  toeeadof sgar  00100 ar  edible and  -ot.Th oobr-t.se               01   .m   theyer  isldlogtcdloolc    to drv--to oi-a   -d0 mobile
e.cff-e sod te    ,   xldd.Aggregate prdotica of e-h  -tOnfy                         -21..
Is, based oo aotlo... Lvereg  produoc  prics asights.
esere eqlveroc   f bt fod ouplis ac,Al0ls  0_ctoty per bopita          Total  -ao   oe    buaaz              smolyhtire perso., tocldlog ared
per dsp.  Avallabi  oupplies c.Veri.. dom.tio production,                I..trt   le,   ore  an   nlYs   bt  ocidleg                         t,soos ,stdeot..  to. Definitl.a.
eo -t.ed obhogeS  to otoo.   et supplIes .-clod  -.10.l feed, aest,                ,i varoou   -cor       r  tot c-wprnh.s.
qootttiee  -otd to food  Lro,ss,  o  loe.  ndetO tiOO. Reqalr.-                      Ekl.  n-.t) - F-.Ie labor furos as prceteg. of total la,bor forc..
m_ats wev  soclea_e  by FAO  ..   npsooia   ed  for ocemal                              loatosr-b) - Labor=             rs.sfr O f....Ocy-  hutig end
sotivity sod b..1thtbon.idertag  -avro-tal t.mpermt-r, body ceghto,                    fihonp -rotge  of total 10-0 force.
ag   04as  iteibubi-  of ppooat-a, and oliosig 10 Percet for                  tdor    ecn)-lbrfreI   ito,oatooDs   ooatro    a
eat   t Ioobl h  le1ne-.                                                           slecor-ty, oat? end ga oper-fsoge of total laosr fr-..
Per -pita supply of  =rt-i  a,-s.  pe d) -Prtea cetat of per                           Fartictoatita bate 1ec-t) -total- -I.e  sd f.sale  - Prtlcipati.. or
ovlta  -e  supply of fooo per Oar. tt supply of food i. UmOt-d en                      htiOity rates ar  -uot.d so total. as., add fm-Lo lbor f-rs  - pe--
shor. Rsquireet. for nil  -ti.o.tre  -stblibod by 50110 provide f. 0?a                  stagee of total, asle ed feal. pop.lsti- of n1l age.  -sp.ctlvly;
sin. alon-c  of 00 gre.  of total protoo  per d.p ad 20 gom  of                    1960. 1970, sod 1975 data.  These ar  !WIa prtiipsti.a  -ate relcing
soiml sd plSeoroein  ofchiO  L grme  losod he nodal protein,                 age-e   strucur  of the PoPoaltlo* sod bag time t-.d.  A fe   sioe
TheS  stendard   re lowe  tohn thos  of 75 gra   of total proteom  ad                   refrom t010.1   oret
27 nS-ma of soof  protei  an         remg  for the word, propsee  by rAO             3E g96_        e0at4     -   ot%oc 0f pop.0.tton und   15 -nd 05 0d ove  t
L. too Third Wbold Food Surry.                                                        0bi*? iI.g groop of 15-66 years.
Per oalta crtela iszPlyfrom   in-l sod p,0.5. -p_ot.la spply of food
deivd fro   a-o.e end pus,  Dgex  perib
2al   sc   -i) thrtality  1bate  ;Re?thoood)- Aa,    etopr th-.ooa                 Poo .tm  of 96lvt.5yj0     (both -0csh ed kiod) - hso.icW  by riohst
in  ge oop 1-i years  to c              tlde 10nb. age group; for   at leve-IS p.0-t, rl                  t 2prst   ore   0pR---t, ad Pooreet -.0 percet
opogooot-o. iota derbe    fr-  lIfe tbles.f .o.hla
rninioo  at birth; iRbO, 173, 000 li77. dmta.                           AEtiltd  pbocsrtp-10.  ee   o  ht000   ee  b low                    b1kas~.
Lafat Mkrtality hate 're  thotaed)   A.-Idoca.tishe of isfete  nder oa                     ntritlcaa.Uy ad"st. diet plu .  .....tia1 ooa-fod r-tolr ts Is cot
yer  f age pee thouSad liv  Olobo.                                                     aff.ralo.
A=ee  t  Safe P te   peca   focuaia      otlubn   ndrrl-tietod Relative- .rvZo   Level V                                            IR (    ar p ali)- it  rhe  so'd rurlI
sofe  -ae  eapplo   . 10 d0.. orestod  afr   str rt-Otroat   Wtu                         pereme  olbOm  of the  -ootry. Rrbe  lenl is lericed fro  the rura  le-1
ooot-mio.t-   t.atr  -uh -e ebt from protected b-rbolee, oprige,                         stb  adjutmt for highr coet of living to urbhe  are.u.
so 2aitary sell) as Poocetogs  of Obsir ... petiv  Pe)eulti- o. to'IaedPOtsto   edaAelte  oet  loocom  lel pso )- uransd
en,beneo   pbohli  fosotit  or st.nd,et loaotd wct  -or then- drrl-Preto 200solaion  urha  atrrl)eeae  noltePo
.tas' fro-    hosooe e   be ooaaderd so belog .ihia ewo0sh.              ...e
of0      L huo    .  -.01 ac=   - "I.ol   -oOed    .Isd i.hy bOat the
hoewi -or .r of the bsasaehed As  o  ha.. to  Vpd a dispropa-                                                           Hofleed Soeial Data  lva
tioate prof to. day to fetoson  bbo AFNi4, 5siea.e.                                                                         Ioami  A-.alyso   at  romeos_ Osahet






-24
ANNEX I
P.s. 4 of 0
MEXICO: ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DAT.s SHEET
peIteitnery
Actual             lEWloER                                 F-cls--d                                             Grcth Rates                      As Percen  of CRY
0       1       97            19tu7W                        1979            1980           1982                          1970/75      1975/7H     1978182      1970        1978        1982
NATIONAL ACCC0'TS                                                                                   Conatent 1972 Presin, us$ Millions
Gress Do.ntic P-oduct                                 36,970.4       48,510.8        50,969.6       54,436.2       58,791.1       63,670.8        74,705.7       94,956.7            5.6          3.9         8.2      99.8         99.3        95.7
GCins frt= Terms of Trade                                 91.8           685.5          404.7          389.1        1,102.0        2,799.6         3,378.8        4,518.3           49.5        .17.2        71.7       0.2          0.7         4.3
Cross Noeesnic Inco=-e                                37,062.3        49,196.2       51,374.3       54,825.2       59,093.1       66,470.4        78,084.5       99,475.0            5.8          3.7         9.2    IRO.0         100.0       1o01.0
Iports                                                 3,851.3        5 ,8823.7       4,18.0         5,608.2        6,867.4        8,285.9       10,458.0        13,847.5            8.8        -1.6         16.9      10.4         10.2        ]3.4
Esports (Import cspscity)                              3,094.1        4,148.1         4,479.1        5,312.6        6,592.6        8,917.1       10,765.4        13,882.3            6.0         8.6         19.3       8.3          9.7        13.8
Rsmoer..  -sp                                            757.2         1,735.6           38.9          295.2          274.8        - 631.2        - 307.4         - 34.8            18.0       .44.6          -         2.0          0.5        -0.4
Consonpcloc                                           30,650.7       40, 404.9       42,036.6       44,287.5       47,276.6       50,885.3       58,684.0        74,943.0            5.7          3.1         7.3      82.7         80.8        75.2
fIxed Trusts. nst                                      7,168.7       10,526.9         9,376.6       10,833.0       12,891.3       14,953.9       10,093.1        24,497.2            8.0          1.0        15.2      19.3         19.8        24.5
Gross -oceeni Raenes                                  R,411.5         8,791.4        9,337.7       10,537.7       12,616.5       15,585.1        19,400.5       24,532.0            6.0          6,2        16.0      17.3         15.2        24.P
Crose Naticusi Osolugs                                 5,984.6         7,693.7        R,306.7        9,308.9       11,097.4       13,997.3       17,792.0        22,841.7            5.2         6.6         07.6      86.1         17.0        22.8
TRADE IN COODS AND N1S                                                                              Crurent Prices    $ D81 Millions
IMPORTS, TOTAL                                             3,416.9         8,636.7        7,855.0       10,589.7       14,676.7       19,571.5       29,090.3        46,845.1           20.4          7.0        28.7     100.0        100.0       130.3
Foed                                                      74.6          443.0           532.0          658.0          756.7        1,170.6        1,739.9         2,801.8           42.8        14.1         27.5       2.2          6.2         6.0
Petroleum sod Products                                     04.2          201.1          127.0          157.0          188.4          200.0          200.0           322. 1          40.0       -18.6          6.2       1.6          1.9         27'
Other GReds                                             7,223.4        3,079.7        5,261.7        7,398.6       10,023.9       14,031.8       20,952.6        33,742.3           21.5          8.0        29.7      65.1         69.9        72.J
Non-_1ator S_e_ins                                      I,0u4.7        2,022.0        1,034.3        7,376.1        3,207.7        4,169.1        6,196.8         9,978.9           13.7          5.5        27.1      31.2         22.4        21.3
EXPORTS, TOTAL                                             2,745.4         6,081.7        7,795.1       10,036.5       14,089.6       21,062.1       29,945.0       46,962.6            17.2         18.2        30.0     100.0        100.0       190.0
Selsoted Agricult-rsl GCods                              711.6           932.4        1,439.1        1,600.2        1,888.2        2,265.8        3,221.4         4,934.6            0.6        19.7         19.1      21.9         15.9        10.8
Petrolett  and Product,                                   38.4           460.8        8,020.4        1,805.0        3,020.0        8,665.8       12,605.0        20,4C1.]           64.3        57.7         62.6       1.4         18.0        47,1
Selesctd Miose-ls                                        244.3           423.4          444.9          531.9          727.6          873.1        1,241.3         1,901.4           11.6          7.9        23.6       8.9          5.3         '.1
M-cofsntorss                                             353.5         1,769.3        1,611.0        2,008.9        2,374.5        2,844.6        4,044.3         6,195.1           24.8        23.4         19.1      12.9         20.0        13.5
Otber Coeds                                               -              119.3           70.8          120.4          142.1          170.4          242.3           371.2            -           0.3         19.1       _            1.2         0.6
Nec-Esotor OsrSices                                    1,397.7         3,077.2        3,190.5        3,970.2        5,035.3        6,042.4        8,590.8        13,159.2           17.1         8.9         21.3      50.9         39.6        20.2
TRADE INDICES
Erport Prics Icde:                                        91.4          175.6           191.3          203.8          206.8          344.3          405.4           501.5           13.09         0.         18.8
Import Pcislcd IIso                                      88 7           46.0            173.9          188.8          213.7          736.2          278.2           338.3           10.6         8.7         10.2
Term.  of Teade                                         103.0           119.6           110.0          107.9          120.1          145.8          145.7           148.2            3.0        -3.4          7.8
VALUE ADDED NY SECTOR                                                                                Ceestoct 1972 P,i-es, US$ Milliomm
PriRlmrp                                               4,139.8        4,404.0         4,769.8        4,946.9        5,R4.0         5,146.8         5,354.7        5,682.4            1.6         3.3          2.0      11.2          9.1         7.2
.se..dary                                             12.417.1       16 952.3        18,236.7       20,026.7       21,925.8       24,063.5       28,988.1        37,801.0            6.4         5.7          9.6      33.4         36.8        08.0
Cert-try                                              20,413.5        27,174.0       27,063.2       29,462.5       31,219.5       34,400.5       40,432.9        51,393.3            0.8         2.9          8.2      55.2         54,1        04,1
Tutu1 (GDP)                                           36,970.4       48,510.8        50,969.6       54,436.2       58,791.1       58,791.1       63,670.8        94,956.7            5.6         3.9          8.2     100.0       100.0        100.0
CONSOLIDATED PUBLIC SECTOR FINANCES
Ourcent Receipts                                       5,405.5        9,100.7        10,278.8       11,716.3       12,663.3       14,165.5       16,641.0       21,237.3            10.6         9.2          9.2      14.7        21.4         21.3
Corrsnt Eopecdf:ucss                     3,921.8~      ~~~~~~~~~~~ 8,424.  8,090.     9 ,32.0       10,694.4        11,6630        13,627.0       17359.             16.3          5.4         8.7      1.1387,
Poblic Saciogs                           ~~~~~~~     ~    ~~~~~~      ~~~1,533.7  884.2  8382.9  194.2  1,05.0       2: 2,47.       3,015.4         9,897.4-1.                    42715                   41363.
blsSavris forI, steo                             11,611.7         754.8         1 479.5        2 022.5        2,824.1        2,556.0        3,104.9         3 ,987.1        -14.2         39.4         11.3       4.3        327           4.
InyssOseot                                             2,227.8        5,032.3         4,387.8        5,007.2        5,508.0        6,334.2        7,664.4         9,920.6           17.1         0.1         11.3       6.1         9.1          9.8
Deficit (Nat)                                            666.1        4,297.0         2,908.2        2,984.8        3,484.0        3,778.3        4,558.6         5,938.6           44.9       -11.1         11.2       1.8          5.4         5.8
ALLOCATION OF GROSS PUBLIC SECTOR EXPENDITURES                                                                                                                                                                                  A. P-J...t If OT11
",,Ity 11115,304.9                                                                 6,51.3         7518.2                                                                                     12.0                                302
Transport cod Ooesicccotieoe                                           1,746.8        1,511.9        1,330.4
Sodal Eslfsr4 4,211.5                                                                 4,628.4        4,881.9                                                                                     5.0                               19.6
lodastry                                                              1,630.9         1,464.0        1,376.5                                                                                    -5.65
Agricmlt,rs  nd Purl Decepoont                                        1,972.3        1, 626.8       1,446.6                                                                                    -9.8                                 5.8
Ce=sral Ad.injictstti- aAd DSsHf-                                      3,282,7        5,190.4        6,554.5                                                                                     25.9                               26.3
Cosserce                                                             1,528.0         1,445.2        1,725.2                                                                                     4.1                                6.9
Teourls                                                                   63.0           73.9           51.6                                                                                    -6.4                                 0.2
Total                                                                 19,795.2       22.451.7       24.884.6                                                                                      7.9                              100.0
Period Avaras
SELECTED INDICATO2 S                                                                                                                                                                    70/73        75i78     78/82
ICOR                                                       2.82           5.30            6.92           2.70           2.48           2.64                                          4.11        6.75       2.9
Import Elasticity                                          1.29            0.05          -4.78           3.50           2.81           2.49                                          1.58        _0.40      2.06
Marginsl S-tio8s Ratio                                        -            0.01           0.06           0.31           0.37            0.45                                         0.14         0.23      0.36
Val.e Added p-r Works           . (1972 o ..)
In  Millions         As . of Totai       1960-1970                                              7 of A-cr-ia
LA30R FORCE AND 00TPU1 PER 001CR                           1960     1970       1_9T       17        Grt  tae            1960          1970              1960          1970         crtOc cole
AriIlt-re                                              5.4      5.1       50.0        39.2         0.56              608.8         939.0            34.7           33.0            4.4
Induatry                                               2.1      3.0       19.6       23.1           3.6            2,468.9       4,134.9           140.6         145.8             5.3
canines                                                3.2      4.9       29.9        37.7          4.4            3,222.8       4,044.8           183.6         142.0             2.3
,otal                                                 10.7     53.0      100.0      100.0          2.0             1.775.6       2.847.6           180.8         100.0             5.0






ANNEX I
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE AND DEBT                                                      Page 5 of S
(15s million at current prices)
Actual                            Preliminary Estimates                              Projections
1970           1975             1976            1977                1978                 1979            1980            1982            1985
SUMMARY BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Exports (including NFS)                               2,745.4          6,081.7         6,836.3         7,795.1            10,036.5             14,089.6        21,062.1        29,945.0        46,962.6
Imports (including NFS)                               3,416.9          8,636.7         8,421.7         7,855.D            10,589.7             14,676.7        19,571.5        29,090.3         46,845.1
Resource Balance                                      - 671.5         -2,555.1        -1,585.4         -  59.9              - 553.2             - 587.1         1,490.6            854.7           117.5
Interest, net If                                      - 307.0         -1,266.5        -1,551.2        -1,811.0            -2,311.8             -3,236.5        -3,738.6        -4,505.1        -5,765.1
Direct Investment Income                              - 267.5          - 657.5         - 666.7         - 401.4              - 477.4             - 572.9         - 687.5         - 907.5        -1,275.0
Workers' Remittances                                    122.7             174.6           239.6           251.0               277.0                332.4           398.9           574.4           807.0
Current Transfers Net                                     55.3            123.4           156.0           168.5               192.3                230.7           276.8           365.4           513.4
Current Account Balance                              -1,068.0         -4,181.2        -3,407.7        -1,852.8            -2,873.1             -3,833.4        -2,259.8        -3,618.1         -5,602.2
Private Direct Investment                               322.8             748.8           626.2           555.9               530.0                636.0           763.2         1,099.0         1,544.0
Public Med. and Long Term Loans, net                    258.6          3,565.8         4,265.5         3,937.3              4,079.0             3,237.4         2,588.3          3,296.4         4,808.8
(Disbursements)                                      (821.3)         4,418.6        (5,417.9)       (6,232.3)           (8,343.3)           (10,142.4)       (8,629.7)       (9,812.4)    (13,299.7)
(Repayments)                                        (-562.7)         (-852.8)      (-1,555.4)      (-2,295.0)          (-4,264.3)           (-6,905.0)      (-6,041.4)      (-6,516.0)      (-8,490.9)
Other Capital                                           588.7              31.7       -1,801.9        -2,136.2            -1,513.4                 110.0           132.0           174.2           244.7
(Public Short Term)                                  (139.6)          (842.8)         (879.5)        (-950.0)          (-1,490.2)              (160.0)
(Other Capital, n.e.i.)                              (449.1)         (-811.1)      (-2,681.4)      (-1,186.2)             (-23.2)              (-50.0)
Chsnge in Reserves (-= increase)                       -102.1           -165.1            320.9         -504.2               -222.5              -150.0        -1,223.7           -951.5          -995.3
GRANT AND LOAN COhMITMENTS
PUBLIC MED. AND L.T. LOANS                                 862.5         4,864.5          6,192.7        8,194.5              9,208,9
IBRD                                                    146.8            310.0           410.0           162.0                554.5
IDA
Other Multilateral                                       112.4            121.8           171.72          122.0               152.2
Governments                                               79.8            335.8           318.1           165.6               385.3
Suppliers                                                 69.7            156.8           135.7          133.6                 97.5
Banks and Financial Institutions                        453.9          3,799.9         4,836.5         6,322.8              7,983.2
Bonds                                                    -                140.3           321.3        1,288.5                 36.4
DEBT AND DEBT SERVICE                                                                                                                             EXTERNAL DEBT
Public Debt Outstanding and Disbursed                 3,316.7         11,809.6        16,607.6        20,381.2             26,970.4                                   Outstanding and Disbursed
(end of period)                                                                                                                                       on Dec. 31, 1978
Interest on Public Debt                                 222.1            855.0         1,138.6         1,388.2              1,853.1                                    $Millions           Percent
Repayment on Public Debt                                479.8             799.6        1,264.3         2,463.3              4,675.7
Other Debt Service (net)                                  -                -               -                -                  -                Public M & L.T.
Total Debt Service (net)                                 701.9         1,654.6         2,402.9         3,851.5              6,528.8                  Loans
Burden on Export Earnings 2t  (/)
a.  Public Debt Service                                24.5             26.4             34.0           47.9                 63.3             IBRD                   1,480.9               5.5
b.  Total Debt Service                                 24.5              26.4            34.0           47.9                 63.3             Other Multilateral    883.9                  3.3
c.  Total Debt Service and Direct                                                                                                             Governments            1,123.0               4.2
Investment Income                       33.8             37.0            43.4            52.9                67.9             Suppliers                 635.3              2.4
Average Termasof Public Debt                                                                                                                    Bonds                   2,698.8              0.0
a.  Interest as % of prior year's D,O.  and D            7.4            10.2              9.6            8.4                  9.1             Other Financial
b.  Amortization as a of prior year's                                                                                                             Institutions      20,148.4              74.7
D0O.  and D                           16.1               9.5            10.7           14.8                 22.9             Total                 26,970.4             100.0
IBRD Exposure
a.  IBRD D.O. and D. as. % of Public D.O. and D   17.5                   9.5              7.4            6.7                  5.5
b. IBRD Debt Service as 1. of Public
Debt Service                            7.7              7.0             5.5             3.9                 2.8
IDA Exposure
- Not applicable or available
1/ Includes interest on short-term private and public debt
2/ Includes worker remittances






- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 8
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MEXICO
A.   Statement of Bank Loans (as of March 31, 1980)
Loan                                                        Amount less    Undis-
No.    Year          Borrower              Purpose         Cancellations   bursed
36 loans fully disbursed                        1,710.4
909      1973  NAFINSA                     Water Supply            90.0       28.4
968      1974  NAFINSA                     Roads                   90.0       20.5
970      1974  NAFINSA                     Irrigation             47.0        31.0
1022      1974  NAFINSA                     Airports                25.0         6.0
1053      1974  NAFINSA                     Integrated Rural
Development          50.0        39.5
1110      1975  NAFINSA                     Integrated Rural
Development         110.0        14.0
1111      1975  NAFINSA                     Irrigation              50.0       44.1
1112      1975  FERTIMEX and NAFINSA        Industry                50.0         5.9
1186      1975  BANOBRAS                    Water Supply           40.0        29.8
1205      1976  NAFINSA                     Industry                50.0        6.3
1232      1976  Ferrocarriles Nacionales
de Mexico and NAFINSA    Railways                100.0        53.0
1420      1977  NAFINSA                     Tourism                42.0        36.7
1462      1977  NAFINSA                     Integrated Rural
Development         120.0        85.4
1524      1978  NAFINSA                     Tourism                 50.0       24.9
1552      1978  NAFINSA                     Industry               47.0        37.1
1553      1978  NAFINSA                     Agriculture             56.0       54.9
1554      1978  BANOBRAS                    Urban Development       16.5       15.4
1560      1978  NAFINSA                     Industry               100.0       63.7
1569      1978  NAFINSA                     Agricultural Credit  200.0         69.2
969-1    1979  NAFINSA                     Irrigation              25.0        12.6
1643      1979  NAFINSA                     Small-scale Agri.       60.0       60.0
1671      1979  BANOBRAS                    Highways               120.0      120.0
1686      1979  FERTIMEX and NAFINSA        Industry               80.0        72.6
1706      1979  NAFINSA                     Irrigation             92.0        92.0
1712      1979  NAFINSA                     Industry               175.0      175.0
1820 1/   1980  NAFINSA                     Small and Medium
Mining              40.0        40.0
TOTAL                                            3,635.9 2/ 1,238.0
Of which has been repaid to the Bank               605.2
Total now outstanding                            3,030.7
Amount sold                     92.3
of which has been repaid        90.8                  1.5
Total now held by Bank 2/                        3,029.2
Total Undisbursed                                            1,238.0
1/   Loan approved by Executive Directors March 25, 1980, but not yet signed.
2/   Prior to exchange adjustments.



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 8
B.     STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of March 31, 1980)
Fiscal                                                                 US$ Million
Year           Obligor                     Type of Business       Loan   Equity  Total
1958/59    Industrias Perfect
Circle, S.A. 1/            Industrial Equipment       0.8      --      0.8
1958        Bristol de Mexico,
S.A. 1/                    A.C. Engine Overhaul       0.5              0.5
1961       Acero Solar, S.A. 1/          Twist Drills                0.3      --     0.3
1962/65/   Compania Fundidora
66/68       Fierro y Acero de
Monterrey, S.A.            Steel                       2.3    21.4   23.7
1963        Tubos de Acero de
Mexico, S.A. 1/            Steel                      0.9      0.1    1.0
1963       Quimica del Rey,
S.A. 1/                    Sodium Sulphate            0.7      -       0.7
1964/66    Industrial del Hierro,
S.A.                       Construction Equipment   --         2.0    2.0
1970       Minera del Norte, S.A,        Iron Ore Mining             1.5      -      1.5
1971        Celanese Mexicana, S.A.    Textiles                     12.0     --    12.0
1972       Promotora de Papel
Periodico, S.A. de
C.V.                       Pulp and Paper              2/       2/      2/
1973/79    Cemento Veracruz              Cement                     15.9     -      15.9
1974        Cancun Aristos Hotel         Tourism                     1.0      0.3    1.3
1975/78    Mexinox, S.A.                 Steel                      12.0     3.2   15.2
1978       Papeles Ponderosa, S.A.    Pulp and Paper                 9.0     2.6   11.6
1978       Tereftalatos Mexicanos,
S.A.                       Petrochemicals             19.0     -      19.0
1979       Empresas Tolteca de
Mexico, S.A. 3/            Cement                    100.0     --   100.0
1979       Hotel Camino Real
Ixtapa, S.A.               Tourism                             2.3    2.3
1979       Conductores Moneterrey,    Electrical Wire
S.A.                         and Cable               18.0      -      18.0
1980       Industrias Resistol, S.A.  Particleboard                 25.0     --    25.0
Total Gross Commitments                                218.9    31.9  250.8
Less Cancellations, Terminations, Repayment
and Sales                                            146.4    22.1 168.5
Total Commitments Now Held by IFC                       72.5     9.8  82.3
Total Undisbursed                                      87.9      0.6  88.5
1/   Investments which have been fully cancelled, terminated, written off,
sold redeemed or repaid.
2/   US$25,000.
3/   Loan of US$100 million, of which US$85 million has been sold to
participants.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 8
PROJECTS IN EXECUTION: PROGRESS AND PROBLEMS 1/
Ln. No. 909    Mexico City Water Supply Project:  $90 Million Loan of
June 18, 1973; Effectiveness Date: April 30, 1974.
Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
Project works are well advanced except in the Texcoco Region.
Overall, the majority of the project works as originally
defined have been completed, and the works in progress are
expected to be completed by early 1980. The Executive Directors
have agreed to amend the Project Description to include new works
which would serve the same objective of increasing bulk water
supply to the Mexico City metropolitan area (R79-307).
Ln. No. 968    Seventh Highway Project:  $90 Million Loan of March 1, 1974;
Effectiveness Date: May 29, 1974. Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
Substantial initial delays have been encountered in project
works because of the shortage of budgetary allocations.
Substantial cost increases caused by price escalation were also
encountered. Taking this into account, a reduction in the scope
of the project was made in August 1977, from 16 roads (1,975
km) to ten roads and part of an eleventh road (1,216 km) which,
because of cost increases, have the same total cost as the
original project. The roads remaining in the project continue
to be well justified as benefits have kept pace with costs.
Completion is now expected in early 1981, or about two and a
half years behind schedule.
Ln. No. 969-1 Rio Panuco Irrigation Project; $25 Million Loan of
September 27, 1978; Effectiveness Date: January 12, 1979.
Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
Major project civil works are on schedule and expected to be
completed by the closing date. Progress in agricultural devel-
opment has been somewhat slower than infrastructure construction.
The technical assistance program has been strengthened and will
emphasize better water utilization and intensive agriculture.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution and, in particular, to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in that sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 8
Ln. No. 970    Rio Sinaloa Irrigation Project:  $47 Million Loan of
March 1, 1974; Effectiveness Date: May 29, 1974.
Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
Project authorities have rephased construction; a substantial
reduction in project scope was approved by the Executive
Directors (R79-51 of March 13, 1979). Progress is satisfactory.
Ln. No. 1022   Airport Development Project:  $25 Million Loan of
May 28, 1974; Effectiveness Date: September 16, 1974.
Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
The project originally included the construction of seven
regional airports and the expansion of an existing one at
Campeche. Of these, the Guaymas airport works have been post-
poned by the Government because of interim improvements of the
existing airport carried out by the local municipality with its
own resources. At Campeche, the Government has decided to
construct a new airport with its own funds instead of improving
the existing airport. Loan proceeds allocated to Guaymas and
Campeche were reallocated in August 1977 to complete construction
of the six airports retained in the project. One of the six
airports has been completed and works in the other five airports
are proceeding satisfactorily.
Ln. No. 1053   Papaloapan Integrated Rural Development Project:  $50 Million
Loan of November 15, 1974; Effectiveness Date: January 27,
1975. Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
Project implementation is accelerating after delays due to
inadequate budget support. Reprogramming of the project is
underway to adjust for these delays. The closing date will be
extended accordingly.
Ln. No. 1110   Integrated Rural Development Project (PIDER I):  $110 Million
Loan of May 8, 1975; Effectiveness Date: October 29, 1975.
Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
Project investments are generally on schedule. After an in-depth
mid-term evaluation in early 1979, project implementation is
being strengthened. PIDER management is taking steps to ensure
proper operation and maintenance of earlier PIDER investments.
Emphasis is also being given to improved cost recovery, invest-
ment analysis and programming, monitoring, and rural industries.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 8
Ln. No. 1111   Seventh Irrigation Project - Bajo Rio Bravo and Bajo Rio
San Juan: $150 Million Loan of May 8, 1975; subsequently
reduced to $50 Million; Effectiveness Date: July _), 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
In view of the project's size, complexity, and high cost, the
Government and the Bank agreed to phase project development over
a longer period of time and substantially reduce the scope of
the project to be financed under the Bank Loan (R77-305 of
December 13, 1977 and R79-56 of March 19, 1979). Progress on
the revised project is satisfactory.
Ln. No. 1112   Fertilizer Project:  $50 Million Loan of May 22, 1975;
Effectiveness Date: July 30, 1975. Closing Date:
March 31, 1981.
The Bajio Urea Plant has been completed and the Pajaritos Urea
Plant is expected to be completed by October 1980. The Parathion
Plant has also been completed. The project is, on average,
2-1/2 years behind schedule. Most of the commissioning work
will take place during the next 6-8 months, and no major
problems are expected. The estimated cost is about 35 percent
above the original budget, mainly due to increases in equipment
and civil works costs.
Ln. No. 1186   Medium Cities Water Supply and Sewerage Project:  $40 million
Loan of January 13, 1976; Effectiveness Date: April 26, 1976.
Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
Subloan agreements have been signed with five cities, where
construction has begun. Three additional subprojects (which
would fully commit the loan funds) are being reviewed by the
Bank. Several positive measures have been taken by the Mexican
authorities to accelerate project execution, including the
preparation and implementation of guidelines for project
design and the reorganization of the Special Project Unit in
charge of project execution. Construction in three cities is
on schedule.
Ln. No. 1205   Industrial Equipment Fund (FONEI) Project:  $50 Million Loan of
April 30, 1976; Effectiveness Date: August 30, 1976. Closing
Date: June 30, 1980.
Due to partial cancellations in some subprojects, $1.9 million
are available for further commitment.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 8
Ln. No. 1232   Third Railway Project:  $100 Million Loan of April 30, 1976;
Effectiveness Date: June 16, 1976. Closing Date: June 30,
1981.
The project has had a slow start, traffic growth in 1976 was
less than anticipated, and funding in 1976-77 (the stabilization
period) was inadequate. The traffic took an upward swing in
1977, continued to rise in 1978, and 1979. As a result, the
operating and working ratios improved significantly. The
railway has prepared a revised investment plan on the basis of
which new financial targets and a revised list of goods have
been prepared and accepted by the Bank. Due to delays incurred
in 1976-1977, the project will be completed in late 1980, about
two years behind schedule.
Ln. No. 1420   Baja California Tourism Project:  $42 Million Loan of
July 5, 1977; Effectiveness Date: June 28, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, _1981.
Construction of infrastructure at both project sites has begun.
The first 250-room hotel at Loreto is also under construction.
Project implementation is slightly behind schedule. An outline
for the ecological and environmental study is being reviewed
in the Bank. The marketing studies of domestic as well as
North American tourism and the economic study of tourism have
been completed. Overall, progress is satisfactory.
Ln. No. 1462   Integrated Rural Development Project - PIDER II:  $120 million
Loan of July 5, 1977; Effectiveness Date: October 28, 1977;
Closing Date: July 31, 1981.
Implementation is on schedule. Project authorities have made
important progress in implementation of inter-agency agreements
to improve investment planning and execution.
Ln. No. 1524   Tourism Development Project:  $50 million Loan of March 21, 1978;
Effectiveness Date: January 12, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
A cofinancing loan of US$25 million was provided to the borrower
on December 1, 1978 by a group of commercial banks. Progress
of commitments is satisfactory.
Ln. No. 1552   Small- and Medium-Scale Industrial Development Project;
US$47 million Loan of May 4, 1978; Effectiveness Date:
January 12, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
After some initial delays, the integrated program to assist
industrial enterprises is making rapid progress. Forty-eight
extension agents have now received full training and have been
assigned to 14 regional offices. It is expected that 50 more
will be trained during 1980.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 8
Ln. No. 1553   Tropical Agricultural Development Project:  US$56 Million Loan
of September 27, 1978; Effectiveness Date: January 12, 1979;
7 osing Date: December 31, 1983.
Five of the six pilot projects have been approved by the Bank;
the sixth is expected to be submitted shortly. After initial
delays in project execution, project authorities are making
excellent progress in the agricultural development program of
each pilot project. The applied research programs are proceed-
ing on schedule.
Ln. No. 1554   Lazaro Cardenas Conurbation Development Project:  US$16.5
Million Loan of September 27, 1978; Effectiveness Date:
February 14, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Progress on institutional and on some work related aspects
of this project has been good, though disbursements are behind
schedule.
Ln. No. 1560   FONEI III:  US$100 Million Loan of September 27, 1978;
Effectiveness Date: January 12, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Demand for industrial investment financing continues to be
strong. FONEI has committed US$86.3 million of the Bank loan
to date.
Ln. No. 1569   Sixth Agricultural Credit:  US$200 Million Loan of
September 27, 1978; Effectiveness Date: January 12, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Implementation is proceeding rapidly. The loan is expected
to be fully disbursed by the end of 1980, 18 months ahead of
schedule.
Ln. No. 1643   Small Scale Agricultural Infrastructure Project:  US$60 Million
Loan of February 6, 1979; Effectiveness Date: April 13, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
Several livestock projects have been approved by the Bank.
Submission of irrigation and drainage subprojects has been
delayed.  The Government is now accelerating sub-project prepa-
ration to avoid furter slippage.
Ln. No. 1671   Highway Sector Project:  US$120 Million Loan of August 23, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984.
Commitments are ahead of schedule but disbursements are behind
schedule because of budget cuts in 1979. The 1980 budget is
adequate.



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 8
Ln. No. 1686   Second Fertilizer Project - Lazaro Cardenas:  US$80 Million
Loan of May 18, 1979; Effectiveness Date: September 21, 1979;
Closing Date: Octobr 31, 1982.
Project completion is delayed by about 12 months, to July 1982,
due to a revision of foundation requirements made after a severe
earthquake in the project area in March 1979. Preliminary
estimates indicate cost increases of about 20 percent. Civil
construction work is progressing satisfactorily. Basic engineer-
ing is about 95 percent complete, and detailed engineering is
about 50 percent complete. At end 1979, the equivalent of
approximately US$90 million were committed, of which US$52
million were for equipment and supplies.
Ln. No. 1706   Rio Fuerte/Rio Sinaloa Irrigation Project:  US$92 Million Loan
of July 30, 1979; Effectiveness Date: October 5, 1979;
Closing Date: July 31, 1986.
Implementation is on schedule.
Ln. No. 1712   FONEI IV:  US$175 Million Loan of July 30, 1979;
Effectiveness Date: October 5, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984.
Demand for industrial financing continues to be strong;
US$37.4 million of the loan have been committed to sub-
projects to date, and there is a considerable pipeline
of additional subprojects being considered.
Ln. No. 1820   Small and Medium Scale Mining Development Project:  US$40
Million Loan of
Effectiveness Date:
Closing Date:
Approved by the Executive Directors on March 25, 1980. The
Loan has not yet been signed.



- 35 -
ANNEX III
MEXICO
APATZINGAN IRRIGATION PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to prepare project: about 18 months
(b) Project prepared by: Ministry of Agriculture and Water Resources
(c) First preparation mission: June 1979
(d) Departure of appraisal mission: November 1979
(e) Negotiations completed in: April 1980
(f) Planned date of effectiveness: August 1980
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III - Special Conditions
(a) Beneficiaries would pay: (i) the full operation and maintenance
costs of project works, and (ii) as much of the investment costs
as practicable in view of their ability to pay. The level of
investment recovery would be based on a socioeconomic study
to be carried out by SARH and to be submitted to the Bank by
December 1985. It will be reviewed periodically to determine
such charges (para. 63).
(b) SARH will maintain separate accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with sound accounting practices the resources and
expenditures in respect of the project, of the departments or
agencies of the Guarantor responsible for carrying out the
project or any part thereof; will annually furnish to the Bank
a summary statement of such accounts (para. 53).
(c) The Government will prepare a project completion report
no later than one year after the completion of loan
disbursements (para. 58).






IBRD 14852
~~ A~~~6~~  ~ ~        / ~      MARCH, K9T
;,             3                                   /                                                   M E XI Co 
APATZINGAN  IRRIGATION PROJECT
',,   l                  V          /                ,                                                                                                               f-L9Sveel)Htene/                     °'
c)2_7...................-'d4v .     .     .1         >          :0 /                                                                                                                              )
fra/-z~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ C><rr <  tlp>&, i2                                         /            Ct/rrrrLr\/i  
'CHiUAAN DAM  A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'ESONLA
A M~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C OE
DAM
VVS~~~~~~~~~ON DAM                                                                DI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OVERS?SK1NDA
Gob-1 Z..os
/AS BKKR45                            9       A /
f020~ ~ ~~~~~~~~(HtAA    \ SYTE                                                                      (LifFEJJTfa                    PARACUA RC/                                     CA KccEKANtasus 
LomATAIV           SY5TEM                                                 A                    SYS ThOW              C Om.M      _
AK,i AAK" AA,gm""K                                                 P7R e /;vtOmPrOmlcd6mnmUSED               E R,VTITS                                          .. .     .   
~~~~___________ _                                            NlEW   IRR  GATION   AREAS                l IOAGT  ASK  ARFAS   TOA BEFiMPROVED..-::t,rJ\
rW  >  I\C     ~ SID                R0A                    _    lE A MA N CANALS                       -NON-BANK F NAIICCA RR SALONr AREAS.-                                              ..    1                             .                      >_
\\ F )\ _ L~~~~~~~~~~~-  L .   _|Cll LATAN DAM ArID RESERVOIR                               3    [ ARSIKKN DAMS  /. 
A  oH~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o
i29 \\   a xJ-     J              X              23    L ~~~~~W   *RISSN STATIONS                M AIN CANALSoI/>                                                                                                     )5
sE 2\a \r-:     4 g  r : ;: \ TO bt RFHAB LITATEV MAIN  ROAL S  R  t   A
7 L  ip ?tV <X.   rC [-Jb/{  7 Ma ro          ~(ft   RRGAN(P UNITS                              SECON2DARY ROADS                                                            /                       T-
. ,a u    %;   .  ME tCD  |; D      -             __ _  --   IRAISAT ON. INI  EOSNSARIES   t,,  RAILFOADS/  T
t4'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~H Y-,7V
T7mi S                                       L ANK V  < TDN-- STATE  NOUK N                              DARR T     R   -
R~~~~~~~~11 AXL -hT  K3Zh              j   UIML                                          OEES         S          2            
K I                       IF          S 5A
|,,,G ZANAI        P                    VFMERESS
TAI AAKR ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ AI  RA



