TMEJ     LOAN NUMBER 1858 ME
Loan Agreement
(Apatzingan Irrigation Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.A.
Dated                          2    , 1980


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1858 ME
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                             , 1980, between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECO STRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter
called the Bank) and NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.A. (hereinafter called
the Borrower).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with the
same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein,
subject, however, to the following modification thereof (said
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of
the Bank, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General
Conditions):
paragraph 11 of Section 2.01 shall read as follows:
"The term 'Project' means the project for which the
Loan is granted, as described in Schedule 1 to the Guarantee
Agreement and as the description thereof shall be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Guarantor, the
Bank and the Borrower."
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set
forth.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth
or referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent
to one hundred sixty million dollars ($160,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Sched-
ule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time


﻿- 2-
to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project described in Schedule 1 to the Guarantee Agreement and
to be financed out of the proceeds of\the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as provided in Section 3.03 of the
Guarantee Agreement, procurement of the goods and civil works to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, shall be governed by
the provisions of Schedule 2 to the Guarantee Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall he June 30, 1987
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the-Borrower and the Guarantor of such later
date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate
of eight and twenty-five hundredths per cent (8.25%) per annum
on the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on January 15 and July 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Transfer of Loan Proceeds
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall make contractual arrange-
ments with the Guarantor, satisfactory to the Bank, providing,
inter alia: (a) for the transfer to the Guarantor of the proceeds
of the Loan for the purpose of carrying out the Project; and (b)
for the transfer by the Guarantor to the Borrower of such funds as
the Borrower shall be required to pay to the Bank on account of
principal, interest and other charges on the Loan. Except as the
Bank may otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not change or fail to
enforce any provision of such arrangements.


﻿-3-
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower represents that at the date
of this Agreement no lien exists on any of its assets as security
for any external debt.
(b) The Botrower undertakes that, except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree, if any lien shall be created on any assets
of the Borrower as security for any external debt, such lien will
ipso facto equally and ratably secure the payment of the principal
rf, and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and in the
creation of any such lien express provision will be made to that
effect, at no cost to the Bank; provided, however, that the
foregoing provisions of this paragraph shall not apply to: (A) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for the payment of the purchase price of such pro-
perty; or (B) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking
transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year
after the date on which it is originally incurred.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an addi-
tional condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within
the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions,
namely, that the Guarantor and the Borrower have entered into the
contractual arrangements referred to in Section 3.01 of this
Agreement.
Section 5.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:
(a) that the contractual arrangements referred to in Section
3.01 of this Agreement are legally binding upon the parties
thereto; and
(b) that all necessary acts, consents and approvals to
be performed or given by the Guarantor, its political subdivisions


﻿-4-
or agencies or by any agency of any political subdivision or
otherwise to be performed or given in order to authorize the
carrying out of the Project and to enable the Guarantor and the
Borrower to perform all of the respective covenants, agreements
and obligations of the Guarantor and the Borrower in the Guarantee
Agreement and the Loan Agreement contained, together with all
necessary powers and rights in connection therewith, have been
duly and validly performed or given and no other such acts,
consents and approvals are required to be performed or given for
said purpose.
Section 5.03. The date I        '1;9D, is hereby speci-
fied for the purpose of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Addresses
Section 6.01. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For the Borrower:
Nacional Financiera, S.A.
Isabel La Cat6lica 51
Mexico 1, D.F.
Mexico


﻿-5-
Cable address:                       Telex:
NAFIN                            NAFIN 383-1775 765
Mexico City                      Mexico City
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.A.
By 9/
uthorized Representative


﻿-6-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Civil works and               113,000,000       42%
engineering for
Parts A and B of
the Project
(2) Land leveling and              16,800,000       42%
clearing under Part
D of the Project
(3) Equipment for Part C            5,000,000       90%
of the Project
(4) (a) Incremental opera-     )    6,200,000       40%
tional costs of      )
agricultural exten- )
sion services,       )
training and tech- )
nical support under )
Part F of the        )
Project; and         )
(b) equipment, materials )
and supplies for     )
Parts G and H of the )
Project              )
(5) Unallocated                    19,000,000
TOTAL              160,000,000


﻿-7-
2.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the
Loan shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Guarantor on goods or services,
or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in
respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
decreases or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower,
increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned
policy of the Bank.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for: (i)
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement except that with-
drawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of
$2,500,000, may be made in respect of Category (1) for final
design work, preparation of bidding documents, and construction
of roads and work camps, and in respect of Categories (2) and (3),
all on account of payments made before that date but after June 1,
1980; and (ii) amounts retained for the guarantee of civil works
contracts under the Project.
4.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of .the Loan
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the
amount of the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insuffi-
cient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in
that Category, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i)
reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet the
estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated
to another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank and the
Borrower are not needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii) if
such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall,
reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to such expend-
itures in order that further withdrawals under such Category may
continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
5.   If, after consultation with the Borrower, the Bank shall
have reasonably determined that the procurement of any item in any
Category is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred
to in this Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and the Bank may, without
in any way restricting or limiting any other right, power or
remedy of the Bank under the Loan Agreement, by notice to the


﻿-8-
Borrower, cancel such amount of the Loan as, in the Bank's reason-
able opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which
would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the
proceeds of the Loan.


﻿-9-
SCHEDULE 2
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*
On each January 15 and July 15
beginning January 15, 1985
through   January 15, 1997                 6,155,000
On July 15, 1997                                6,125,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in
a currency other than dollars (see General Conditions,
Section 4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar
equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 10 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                              Premium
Not more than three years                            1.45%
before maturity
More than three years but not                        2.90%
more than six years before
maturity
More than six years but not                          5.35%
more than eleven years
before maturity
More than eleven years but not                       7.30%
more than fifteen years
before maturity
More than fifteen years                              8.25%
before maturity


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this          day of     ., 198(L.
FOR SECRETARY


