Report No 1105a-IND                                                               FILE  COPY
Appraisal of the National Food
Crops Extension Project Indonesia
May 7, 1976
East Asia and Pacific Projects Department
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00         =          Rupiahs (Rp) 415
Rp 100          =          US$0.241
Rp 1 million    =          US$2,409.64
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES - METRIC SYSTEM
1 millimeter              =          0.039 inches
1 meter (m)               =          39.37 inches
1 square meter (m ) 2                10.764 square feet
1 kilometer (km)          =          0.62 miles
2
1 square kilometer (km ) =           0.386 square miles = 100 ha
1 hectare (ha)            =          2.47 acres
1 kilogram (kg)           =          2.2 pounds
ABBREVIATIONS
AETE      -    Agency for Education, Training and Extension
AITC      -    Agricultural In-Service Training Center
ARD       -    Agency for Research and Development
ATI       -    Agricultural Training Institute
BAPPENAS  -    Badan Perancana Pembangunan National-
National Planning Agency
BIMAS     -    Bimingan Massal- Mass Guidance,
-    a farm input-credit package program
BRI       -    Bank Rakyat Indonesia - People's Bank of Indonesia
BPMD      -    Balai Pendidikan Masyarakat Desa-
-    Education Center for the Rural Community
BULOG     -    Badan Urusan Logistik - National Logistics Body,
rice procurement agency
BUUD      -    Badan Usaha Unit Desa - Village Unit Cooperative
-    (not incorporated)
DGWRD     -    Director(ate)-General of Water Resources Development
DGFCA     -    Director(ate)-General of Food Crops Agriculture
DOLOG     -    Depot Logistik - Provincial branch of BULOG
GOI       -    The Government of Indonesia
INMAS     -    Intensifikasi Massal - Mass Intensification,
-    a farm input program
IRRI      -    International Rice Research Institute
KUD       -    Koperasi Unit Desa - Village Unit Cooperative
MOA       -    Ministry of Agriculture



FOR OFFlCIAL USE ONLY
INDONESIA
APPRAISAL OF THE NATIONAL FOOD CROPS EXTENSION PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSION .. ............... .. ......... .  .   i-ii
I.    INTRODUCTION .................................................    1
II.    BACKGROUND ........           ....................................    2
The Agricultural  Sector              ...............................    2
Agricultural Extension at Present                  .....................    2
Project Formulation ...................................    4
III.    THE PROJECT ..............  .............................   4
General Description ...................................    4
Organization of Food Crops Extension Services .........                   5
Extension Methodology .................................    5
Fellowships and Training  ..............................    6
Rural Extension Centers  .... ..... . . . .. . .  .............. .. .........    6
Construction         ..........................................    7
Implementation Schedule  ......          ...................              7
Rice Research Contract (Credit 246-IND)                        ..   7
Cost Estimates  .........           ........................    ............    8
Financing  ............................................                   9
Procurement  ...........................................                  9
Disbursement ...........................................   10
Accounts and Audit .....................................   10
IV.    ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT .....             .....................    11
Organization of Extension ......             .......................  11
Staffing         ..............................................   12
Staff Training .................................................   13
Consultants        ...........................................   13
Project Monitoring ........ ...................                         13
V.    BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION ............................   14
VI.    AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION               .................  15
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission composed of
Messrs. E.B. Boerema (Bank), D. Benor, S.V. Bersamin, J. Greenwood and
A. Campbell (consultants), and a post-appraisal mission consisting of
Messrs. A. Golan, E.B. Boerema (Bank) and Mr. P. Judd (consultant).
Mr. E.G. Giglioli and Ms. K. Boetker assisted in preparation of the
report.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-2-
ANNEXES
1.   The BIMAS Program
2.   Organization and Management of the Food Crops Extension Service
3.   Food Crops Production and Extension Targets
4.   Staff Training
5.   Cost Estimates
6.   Equipment List
7.   Estimated Schedule of Expenditures and Disbursements
8.   Schedule of Events
CHARTS
Implementation Schedule No. 15765(R)
Ministry of Agriculture Organization No. 9395(2R)
Directorate General Food Crops Organization No. 15755
Project Organization No. 16010
MAP
Location of Project Provinces No. 10811R



INDONESIA
APPRAISAL OF THE NATIONAL FOOD CROPS EXTENSION PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSION
The Government of Indonesia (GOI) has requested Bank asslstance
in financing the first phase of a National Food Crops Extension Project
in the provinces of East, Central and West Java, Jogyakarta, North, West
and South Sumatera, South Kalimantan and South Sulawesi. In these nine
provinces, the project would provide for the establishment of an intensified
and expanded food crops extension service at the provincial and district
level. It would include hiring of additional extension staff, introduction
of a sound extension methodology with an emphasis on regular farm visits and
continuous training for extension workers, and construction of Rural Extension
Centers (REC's), from which all extension services at the field level would
emanate.
ii.       GOI, in attempting to expand and improve its extension services
had two alternatives, to continue the arrangement whereby each Directorate
General (Food Crops, Estates, Animal Husbandry, Fisheries and Forestry)
handled its own extension, or to reorganize the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA)
and unify the extension services under one specialized agency. GOI has de-
cided that, while creation of a unified extension service is a desirable
goal, a major reorganization of MOA at the present time would seriously
disrupt the current programs for Increasing the nation's food production.
In the light of this consideration and because of man-power and budgeting
constraints, GOI has decided that efforts to improve the extension activi-
ties should be concentrated in the first instance on food crops production.
Consequently, the Government has chosen to improve and rationalize the exist-
ing extension service under the Directorate General for Food Crops Agriculture
(DGFCA).
iii.       Total project cost is estimated at Rp 18.3 billion (US$44.2 mil-
lion), of which US$15.8 million, or about 36%, would be in foreign exchange.
The proposed Bank loan of US$22.0 million would finance the full foreign ex-
change cost as well as 22% of the local costs of the project. Local cost
financing is justified in view of the project's relatively low foreign ex-
change component; the need for Bank participation at a meaningful level, and
the requirement for a project of sufficient size to encompass the major food
producing areas, which, in the absence of Bank assistance, would not be possi-
ble because of GOI budgetary constraints. GOI would provide Rp 9.2 billion
(US$22.2 million), which would cover the remaining costs of the project.
Vehicles and equipment costing about US$8.5 million would be procured follow-
ing international competitive bidding. Construction and rehabilitation of
Rural Extension Centers (RECs) (US$3.2 million) would generally be carried out
by contract. Because of the nature of the work, it would not be suitable for
international competitive bidding. Architects would be employed to assist
with the preparation of plans and tender documents anc supervision of con-
struction of the REC's. About 100 man-months of consultants and short-term



specialists (US$0.6 million) would be required to assist DGFCA in planning and
implementation of the project.  A rice research contract with the Internation-
al Rice Research Institute initiated under Credit 246-IND, would be completed
under the proposed loan (US$0.7 million). Contingencies amount to US$11.1
million, of which US$10.0 million are for anticipated price increases.
iv.       Implementation is scheduled to take five years.  DGFC would have
overall responsibility for project implementation.  A Project Director would
be appointed within DGFC to coordinate extension services in the nine project
provinces. The Project Director, assisted by a firm of architects, would
assume responsibility for all construction and procurement activities.
v.        The project would reach some 12.8 million farm families farming 7.3
million ha of rice and about 4.0 million ha of other food crops in the nine
selected provinces. All farmers would benefit from direct or indirect contact
with extension workers, who would convey the most practical and profitable
advice for their farm enterprise. Total project costs are US$3.40 per farm
family and incremental annual operating costs, following project completion,
amount to US$1.34 per farm family.
vi.        Because of the nature of the project it is not possible to quantify
the benefits, however, even under the most modest assumptions with respect to
increases in yield, project benefits would be extraordinarily high. Aside
from generating high economic benefits at a low cost per participating farm
family, the project is also attractive because of its impact on income dis-
tribution. Although it is difficult to evaluate precisely how the project
benefits would be distributed between the very poor and less poor farmers, the
very poor farmers stand to benefit most from the project since at present they
are often too poor to take advantage of BIMAS loans and thus have limited
access to the extension services.
vii.      The proposed project is suitable for a Bank Loan of US$22.0 million,
with a 25 year maturity, including a grace period of six years. The borrower
would be the Republic of Indonesia.



INDONESIA
APPRAISAL OF THE NATIONAL FOOD CROPS EXTENSION PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.101     The Government oL Indonesia (GOI) has requested a Bank loan to
assist in financing the first phase of a National Food Crops Extension
Project.  In recent years GOI has been concerned about the effectiveness
of both its agricultural research and its extension activities and the con-
tribution they make towards improving the agricultural sector of the economy.
Major constraints have been (a) the lack of production-oriented agricultural
research, and (b) the lack of an effective extension service. Addressing
itself to the first need, the Bank assisted in 1975 in financing the Agri-
cultural Research and Extension Project (Loan 1179-IND), which provided for
the establishment of research programs for the major crops, and information
centers to prepare the latest research information in a form suitable for
extension use. The proposed project addresses itself to the second con-
straint; it would expand and strengthen the provincial agricultural extension
services under the Directorate General for Food Crops Agriculture (DGFCA) in
nine provinces. Through the experience gained on this project, the Government
ultimately plans to implement an integrated extension program throughout the
country for all agricultural crops and enterprises.
1.02      A special project preparation team within the Agency for Education,
Training and Extension (AETE) of the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) prepared
the project, with assistance from the Education Division (East Asia and
Pacific Region) of the Bank and the FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program. This
report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission, which visted
Indonesia in August 1975, composed of Messrs. E.B. Boerema (Bank), D. Benor,
S.V. Bersamin, J. Greenwood and A. Campbell (consultants).   A post-appraisal
mission composed of Messrs. A. Golan, E.B. Boerema (Bank) and P. Judd (con-
sultant) visited Indonesia in February 1976. This mission revised the
appraisal report to incorporate data collected by DGFCA and the BIMAS Secre-
tariat, and to reflect the recent GOI decision to limit the project initially
to extension for food crops only (para 2.10). Mr. E. G. Giglioli and Ms. K.
Boetker also assisted in the preparation of the report.
1.03      The Bank Group has assisted in financing 20 projects for agricul-
ture, of which seven were for smallholder and estate crops, six for irriga-
tion rehabilitation, two each for fisheries and fertilizer production, and
one each for seeds, beef-cattle development, agricultural education, fertilizer
distribution and research and extension.



II. BACKGROUND
The Agricultural Sector
2.01      The major emphasis of the first Five-Year Plan, ending March 31,
1974, was on rehabilitation of neglected infrastructure, especially in irri-
gation and transport, and on expansion of production in agriculture for both
the domestic and foreign market. The most important single objective was for
rice production: an increase of 47% was to be achieved in five years, largely
through a major expansion of the existing schemes for the supply of current
inputs and credit to farmers (BIMAS/INMAS). The projected targets were
achieved, although rice production lagged one year behind schedule. A good
deal of progress was made in the rehabilitation and in the expansion of
infrastructure, including transport, power, communications and irrigation,
but because of the original poor state of the facilities and the rapid ex-
pansion of output, the services remain generally inadequate to meet grow-
ing demands. The second Five-Year Plan puts little stress on economic growth
per se, except as a means towards enhancing productive and income earning work
opportunities and living standards for the broad masses of people, and focuses
more on social development, equitable income distribution, regional growth,
education and employment.
2.02      Agriculture accounts for about 40% of the gross domestic product
(GDP) nearly two-thirds of employment and close to 80% of non-oil exports.
In 1973, food crops (principally rice, but also including a number of upland
crops such as cassava, corn, soybeans, fruits and vegetables) accounted for
65% of the total agricultural output. During the five-year period 1968-73,
agricultural output grew at a rate of about 4.2% annually, with rice and sugar
showing the highest gains in both output and yield. The BIMAS/INMAS programs
contributed significantly to increasing agricultural production during this
period. The BIMAS program commenced in 1965-66 and by 1974-75 it covered
almost 2.2 million ha of rice land. Its key feature is a credit approach
whereby eligible farmers, authorized by the village head and a representative
of the Bank Rakyat Indonesia (BRI), obtain vouchers for inputs (fertilizers,
seed and agro-chemicals), together with a cash living allowance and extension
advice. In 1967-68, the INMAS program was initiated to provide subsidized
inputs, without credit or extension.
2.03      Indonesia has a dual agricultural structure, consisting of 15 to
18 million smallholders and about 1,200 large estates. With the exception of
palm oil, smallholders dominate in the production of all subsistence and cash
crops. The 1973 Census of Agriculture indicated that 70% of all farms had
less than 1 ha of land.
Agricultural Extension at Present
2.04      The Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) was originally organized into
five Directorates General--Food Crops, Estate Crops, Animal Husbandry,



- 3 -
Fisheries, and Forestry, each operating its own separate agricultural exten-
sion service. In 1974, the Government decided to reorganize the Ministry, by
removing the research functions and responsibility for extension methodoloy
from the directorates and placing them into two new agencies, the Agency for
Research and Development (ARD) and the Agency for Education, Training and Ex-
tension (AETE). Responsibility for all agricultural research and development
at the national level was assigned to ARD, while AETE assumed responsibility
for agricultural education and training and for extension methodology. How-
ever, the five Directorates General remained responsible for the administra-
tion of extension services in the provinces.
2.05      The Directorate General for Food Crops Agriculture (DGFCA), as a
result of the BIMAS program (Annex 1), has the largest number of extension
workers and provides the bulk of the extension service in the provinces. The
Director General Food Crops Agriculture is concurrently executive head of the
BIMAS Secretariat in MOA. He is assisted in planning and coordination of the
program by the National BIMAS Committee, consisting of representatives of all
participating Government agencies. Similar committees function at the provin-
cial and district levels under the chairmanship of the Governor and Bupati
respectively. In early 1976 the staff of this Directorate included nearly 240
Subject Matter Specialists (PPS's), 50 middle level extension workers (PPM)
and almost 4,200 field extension workers (PPL). The overall ratio of PPL's to
farm families is about 1:3,300, but because of their regulatory and admini-
strative duties, the actual ratio is closer to 1:4,500.
2.06      Extension staff of the different Directorates at the provincial,
district and sub-district levels are administratively part of the local
government structure, but receive supervision and technical backup from
their respective Directorates. Most PPL's are employed under the BIMAS
program, but are administratively responsible to the provincial extension
services. Funds for their employment are transferred from MOA to the pro-
vincial and district extension services.
2.07      The extension services operated by the five Directorates are semi-
autonomous and consequently there are operational differences both within
and between provinces. Until recently there was little coordination between
the Directorates at the provincial and district levels. However, this
situation has improved with the appointment of Provincial Agricultural
Coordinators, who coordinate the work of the different agricultural agencies
in the province and assist in setting and implementing annual targets. The
Coordinators are responsible to both the Governor and the Minister of Agri-
culture.
2.08      Under the present system, extension activities are for practical
purposes limited to participants in the BIMAS program, which concentrates
on rice, with some secondary crops, sugarcane and poultry. Despite its con-
siderable achievements, in 1974-75 this service covered less than 25% of the
8.5 million ha wet-season paddy area and less than 5% of the 5.4 million ha
of dry-season secondary crops. The number of farmers served under the program
is restricted by fairly stiff requirements for creditworthiness and a pref-
erence in favor of areas with the least risk of crop failure.



- 4 -
2.09      There is still considerable scope for improvement in productivity
even without an increase in the use of complementary inputs. The proposed
project is based on the premise that even if all inputs other than technical
advice remain static, it is still possible to increase productivity. With the
likelihood of other Government sponsored programs providing additional ser-
vices and inputs to the farmers, the need for an improved extension service
becomes more acute. To be fully effective for all food crops and farm hold-
ings, provincial extension activities must be intensified, streamlined and
systematized, the number of extension personnel must be increased, training
activities stepped up and extension methodology improved. The proposed
project would be a major step in this direction.
Project Formulation
2.10      In view of the large role that agriculture plays in the economy
and the relatively low productivity of food crops, tree crops, aquaculture
and animal husbandry, GOI is attempting to expand and improve its extension
services. There were two alternatives, to continue the arrangement whereby
each Directorate General handled its own extension, or to reorganize the MOA
and unify the extension services under one specialized agency. After con-
siderable study and following a policy review by the MOA, GOI decided that
while creation of a unified extension service is a desirable goal, a major
reorganization of MOA at the present time would seriously disrupt the cur-
rent programs for increasing the nation's food crop production. Consequently,
the Government has chosen to improve and rationalize the existing extension
services under the Directorate General for Food Crops Agriculture. Extension
services for food crops are closely linked with the BIMAS program (para 2.05).
This link would be preserved under the project, except that extension services
would be provided to all farmers and not limited to BIMAS participants, and
extension services would be made available in the project area in advance of
other components of the BIMAS package. The project would assist GOI in
expanding and intensifying these extension services in nine of the 26
provinces, which cover almost 80% of the farmers in the country.
III. THE PROJECT
General Description
3.01      The proposed National Food Crops Extension Project would strengthen
the existing provincial extension services for all food crops in the provinces
of West, Central and East Java, Jogyakarta, North, West and South Sumatera,
South Sulawesi, and South Kalimantan. These provinces were selected because
of their importance in the production of food crops. The DGFCA extension
services in the nine provinces would be modified and expanded, and additional
extension workers would be recruited and trained.



- 5 -
3.02      The project would provide for:
(a)  an increase in the number of extension staff;
(b)  an extensive program of local training for extension workers
along with a limited number of fellowships and overseas
training tours;
(c)  introduction of a sound extension methodology with emphasis
on continuous training and regular farm visits;
(d)  construction or renovation of 529 Rural Extension Centers
(REC's) and the construction of a project headquarters;
(e)  employment of a local firm of architects, an extension special-
ist and about 50 man-months of short-term specialists;
(f)  procurement of vehicles and equipment; and
(g)  completion of a rice research contract with IRRI initiated
under Credit 246-IND.
Organization of the Food Crops Extension Services
3.03      The Director General Food Crops Agriculture would continue to be
responsible for the provincial extension services for food crops in addition
to his responsibility for the administative and regulatory services. Re-
sponsibility for day to day extension activities in the project provinces
would rest with a Project Director (para 4.01), who would coordinate and
direct extension services in the nine provinces through the DGFCA Provincial
and District Extension Officers.
3.04      Field-level extension services would be provided from Rural Exten-
sion Centers (REC's), formerly named BPMD's (Bulai Pendidikan Masyarakat Desa
- Education Center for the Rural Community). At each REC, a team of two
middle-level extension workers (PPMs) would supervise the activities of
the Village Unit (VU) I/ field extension workers (PPL's).
3.05      The project would provide extension services by well-trained staff,
on a regular systematic basis, to a large number of farmers. At present
there are some 3,840 VU's, covering 4.2 million ha and serving 8.9 million farm
families in the nine provinces. The number of VU's would be increased to
nearly 6,200, the area to about 6.0 million ha and the number of farm families
to be served to 12.8 million. With the increase in the number of extension
workers, the average number of farm families served by a PPL would fall from
3,300 to 1,700.
1/   A Village Unit (VU) is an agro-economic unit consisting of 600-1,000 ha
of rice land.



-6-
Extension Methodology
3.06      The objective of the project would be to provide farmers, on a
regular, frequent and systematic basis, with up-to-date advice on farming
practices which would have immediate impact on their yields and it would deal
with all food crops of smallholders in an area of about 1,000 ha. The PPL
would be available to about 1,700 farm families within his area, but he would
focus his efforts on groups of 10-15 progressive farmers, headed by a contact
farmer. Each progressive farmer in turn would transmit the advice received
from the PPL to a group of 7-10 neighboring farmers. Each PPL would be
assigned 16 farmer groups, visiting each group once a fortnight on a fixed day
and time. He would motivate these farmers to rapidly adopt new and improved
techniques so that their farms would serve as models to their neighbors.
3.07      Every fortnight PPL's and PPM's would attend a one-day class
designed to give them the practical information to be imparted to the far-
mers in the next two weeks. During the first part of the day there would
be a lecture, followed by field work where participants would go through
all steps of the recommended techniques, and concluding with group discus-
sions. During the next two weeks, the PPL would convey this information
to the farmer groups and the contact farmer or one of the progressive farmers
in each group would lay out a demonstration plot with the assistance of the
PPL. The plot would remain a subject for discussion or further demonstration
throughout the growing season. All farmers would be invited to be present
during the PPL's visit, and progressive farmers would be expected to attend
and to pass on the substance of the recommendations they receive to between
seven and ten of their neighbors.
3.08      Initially, emphasis would be placed on a few critical practices
with economically important crops and on aspects where the probability of
quick results is greatest (Annex 3). This focusing of effort would prevent a
thin spread of extension over many crops and farm enterprises, and it would
improve the chance of holding the continuing interest and enthusiasm of
both the farmers and the extension workers.
Fellowships and Training
3.09      A fellowship and training program would be provided under the
project. Six post-graduate fellowships would be awarded. Ten PPS's would
be sent annually over the five-year project duration to the Rice Production
and Multiple Cropping courses conducted at the International Rice Research
Institute in the Philippines. Some 150 extension workers and leading far-
mers would participate in short visits to other Asian countries to observe
innovative and successful farm practices.
Rural Extension Centers
3.10      REC's would be the basic modules around which the extension service
would be built up. Each center would service 15,000-25,000 farm families. In
densely populated districts there would be five or six REC's, while in sparsely



- 7 -
populated areas of Sumatera, South Sulawesi and South Kalimantan there would
be only one REC per district. The exact location would be determined on the
basis of accessibility, population density and number of Village Units. Each
REC would be staffed with two PPM's and from 10 to 20 PPL's, depending on the
number of farmers served. Under the project about 350 new REC's would be con-
structed and about 179 existing REC's would be rehabilitated. The breakdown
by province is presented in Annex 2. Another 60 REC's, of which 33 are
located in East Java, 23 in West Java and four in South Sulawesi, would be
financed from the East Java provincial budget, through an ongoing Bank-
assisted irrigation project (Loan 1100-IND), from the West Java provincial
budget and through a USA bilateral aid program.
Construction
3.11       New REC's would be built according to a standard GOI plan and
consist of a small building with offices for the PPM's and storage room for
extension equipment, etc. Many of the rehabilitated centers would have a
meeting hall, which are not required in new REC's since all villages have a
meeting hall that could be used for extension meetings. All REC's would
be provided with basic furniture and equipment. Extension personnel would
be provided with bicycles, motorcycles or four-wheel drive vehicles, depending
on the distance from their area of work. Assurances were obtained that
GOI would make the necessary provisions to acquire the land needed for the
new RECs. A project headquarters facility would be constructed and furnished
as an addition to the existing BIMAS office in Jakarta.
3.12      DGFCA would engage a local firm of architects to assist with the
preparation of construction and site plans for REC's, tender documents and
annual construction schedules. The firm would be responsible for sub-contract-
ing the work to other qualified architects in the outlying areas. After
contracts are awarded, constructilon supervision of REC's in the field would
continue to rest with the architects. Assurances were obtained that a firm of
architects acceptable to the Bank would be engaged on terms and conditions to
be approved by the Bank. Engagement of a firm of architects would be a
condition of effectiveness of the proposed loan.
Implementation Schedule
3.13      Establishment of the 529 REC's under the project would be phased
over a 5-year period. Required staff would be trained in advance of com-
missioning new or rehabilitated centers.  The training program (Annex 4)
would be carried out continuously during the project's life,  Procurement of
furniture, equiprment and vehicles would be phased with the construction
of REC's and st-ff appointments.  As relatively little pre-engineering
is required, work on the f-irst batch of RECs iwould begin in late 1976 and
all project works would be completed by June 30, 1981 (Chart No. 15765R),
Rice Research Contract (Credit 246-IND)
3.14       In December 1972 GOI entered into a five-year contract with the
International Rice Research Institute for provision of specialists to
strengthen rice, maize and soybean research at the Central Research



Institute for Agriculture research stLtion adjacent to the National Seeds
Corporation's seed production farm at Sukamandi in West Java. Funds to the
amount of US$1.0 million in support of this contract were provided under Credit
246-INI) and will be fully expended by the closing date in September, 1977.  in
March, 1975 the contract was renegotiated at a revised cost of US$ 1.7 million,
to permit a lower annual input of technical assistance over a longer period
of time through to 1982. This extension is consistent with the longer-term
breeding requirements of the seed program and its integration with the rice and
secondary crop research programs being supported through the Agricultural
Research and Extension Project (Loan 1179-IND,) all of which will now benefit
from the improved field and laboratory facilities to be provided under the
latter project. As it would be inappropriate to extend the closing date of
Credit 246-IND to continue payments on account of the IRRI contract alone,
funds have been included in the proposed loan to cover the cost of the con-
tract from the closing date of the credit to the termination date of the
contract.
Cost Estimates
3.15      Total project costs are estimated at US$44.2 million, of which
US$15.8 million or 36% is in foreign exchange. Estimates for construction
are based on costs of similar work in the provinces and on BAPPENAS design
guidelines for single-story buildings in rural areas. Architects's fees
are included in the construction costs of REC's. Equipment, furniture and
vehicles are based on recent price quotations. All prices and salaries are
expressed at early 1976 levels. Because of the large number and wide geograph-
ical spread of the RECs to be built or rehabilitated under the project, physi-
cal contingencies of 15% are included for civil works, furniture and equip-
ment. Costs due to expected price increases amount to about 23% of total
project costs and assume the following annual inflation rates:
Annual Inflation Rate (%)
1976    1977-79  1980-81
Civil Works                               13         12        10
Equipment and Services                     9          8         7
Salaries                                  10         10        10
3.16      Details of project costs, including the build-up of incremental
operating costs during the five year execution period, are presented in Annex
5 and are summarized below:



-9-
Foreign
Local  Foreign  Total        Local  Foreign  Total  Exchange
-----(Rp Billion)----        ----(US$ Million)----        %
Land Acquisition       0.9        -      0.9         2.2       -      2.2        0
REC's                   1.0     0.3      1.3         2.3      0.9     3.2       28
Vehicles and
Equipment            0.6      3.8      4.4         1.4     9.2    10.6        87
Training and
Consultants          0.8      0.4      1.2         2.0     1.0      3.0       33
Incremental
Operating Costs      5.3      0.3      5.6        12.7     0.7    13.4         5
Base Cost Estimate  8.6       4.8    13.4         20.6    11.8    32.4        36
Physical
Contingencies        0.2      0.2      0.4         0.5     0.6      1.1       54
Expected Price
Increases            3.0      1.2     4.2          7.3     2.7    10.0        28
Extension Project
Cost                11.8      6.2    18.0         28.4    15.1    43.5        35
IRRI Contract
(Cr 246-IND)         -        0.3     0.3           -      0.7      0.7      100
Total Project Cost 11.8       6.5    18.3         28.4    15.8    44.2        36
3.17      The estimated operating costs of the extension service in the nine
provinces (at constant early 1976 price levels) for pre- and post-project
situations are shown below:
Annual Operating Costs
Pre-Project        Post-Project        Incremental
…________------…(US$ 000)…
Staff Costs               3,800            13,500               9,700
Annual Operating
Costs                 2,400              8,800              6,400
Replacement of
Capital Investment      300              1,400               1,100
Total            6,500            23,700              17,200



- 10 -
Financing
3.18      The proposed Bank loan of US$22.0 million would finance the full
foreign exchange costs and about 22% of the local costs of the project. It
would cover about 50% of total project costs. Local cost financing is justi-
fied in view of the project's relatively low foreign exchange component; the
need for Bank participation at a meaningful level; and the requirement for a
project of sufficient size to encompass the major food producing areas,
which, in the absence of Bank assistance, would not be possible because of GOI
budgetary constraints. GOI would provide the remaining RP 9.2 billion (US$22.2
million). Total operating costs for the project would increase gradually from
the present level of about US$6.5 million to US$23.7 million after project com-
pletion. GOI would supply annually the necessary funds to DGFCA, the BIMAS
Secretariat and the nine provinces for the specific purpose of covering the
incremental costs incurred under the project. Assurances were obtained that
GOI would provide the funds required to execute the project to the DGFCA,
the BIMAS Secretariat and the provinces in a timely manner.
Procurement
3.19      DGFCA would have overall responsibility for construction of the
REC's, with the firm of architects providing day-to-day supervision. Civil
works contracts for the construction and rehabilitation of REC complexes
(US$3.2 million) would be small, about US$6,000 per REC, spread out both
geographically and temporally, and would not be suitable for international
competitive bidding. Contracts would be awarded on the basis of competitive
bidding following local advertising, in accordance with procedures which are
satisfactory to the Bank. Procedures for prequalification of civil works
contractors, which are mandatory under GOI's laws, are acceptable. There are
numerous qualified local contractors to carry out the necessary civil works
contracts.
3.20      DGFCA would be responsible for procurement of goods under the pro-
ject. About US$10.6 million worth of vehicles and equipment (Annex 6) would
be purchased under the project. Equipment subject to international competitive
bidding would be grouped in large enough contracts to attract competition.
Vehicles and equipment costing about US$8.5 million would be procured following
international competitive bidding procedures in accordance with Bank Group
Guidelines, except for 20 vehicles which would be procured locally on the
basis of GOI competitive bidding procedures during the project start-up period.
A preference limited to 15% of the cif price of imported goods, or the custom
duty, whichever is lower, would be extended to local manufacturers in the
evaluation of bids. Such items as extension and plant protection equipment,
handbooks and small maintenance tools, for a total of about US$0.8 million
would be procured on the basis of local competitive bidding or as off-the-shelf
items costing less than US$10,000 each, subject to an aggregate total not
exceeding US$150,000. Off-the-shelf items would be purchased on the basis of
prudent shopping (minimum of three price quotations, if possible). There are
sufficient suppliers of such goods to ensure adequate competition. Furniture
requirements under the project (US$0.35 million) would not be suitable for
international competitive bidding and would be purchased following local
competitive bidding procedures. Assurances were obtained that vehicles



- 11 -
imported under the proposed project would be exempted from existing import
restrictions.
Disbursement
3.21      Disbursements would be made at the rate of 100% against the c.i.f.
cost of directly imported equipment, 95% against the ex-factory cost of
locally manufactured equipment and 65% for imported equipment procured locally.
Disbursements for vehicles procured locally during the project start-up
period would be at 40% of total cost. For services of consultants and for all
training both overseas and local, disbursements would be at 100% of total
cost, against certified statements of expenditures. For the IRRI rice research
contract disbursement would be at 100% of foreign exchange costs. Disburse-
ments for civil works should be at 85% of payments of expenditures submitted
by DGFCA after certification by the architects. It is expected that disburse-
ments would be completed by June 30, 1982. An estimated schedule of expendi-
tures on the project and a semi-annual disbursement schedule are given in
Annex 7.
Accounts and Audit
3.22      DGFCA's accounts are audited annually by the Government's auditors.
These auditors have been accepted for the previous Bank Group-assisted irri-
gation projects and satisfactory audit reports have been received. Assurances
were obtained that DGFCA would maintain a separate account for the project;
and after that audit by the Government auditors, the project accounts, toge-
ther with the auditors comments, would be submitted to the Bank within six
months of the close of each financial year.
IV. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
Organization of Extension
4.01      National Level.  The Director General Food Crops Agriculture, while
retaining overall responsibilities, would appoint a Project Director to handle
the day to day administration, control and evaluation of the project's exten-
sion activities. The Project Director would be responsible for coordinating
extension activities under the project with those of the other Directorates
General, other activities within MOA and with the BIMAS Secretariat. He would
have a small administrative and technical support staff and would be assisted
by an extension specialist (para 4.09) and a local firm of architects (para
3.12). The Project Director would also act as secretary of the National Food
Crops Extension Advisory Working Group, which would plan extension activities
under the project. Other members would be the Director General for Food Crops
Agriculture (Chairman), the Secretary and Director of Planning of DGFCA, the
nine Inspectors of Agriculture from the participating provinces, two represen-
tatives from BIMAS and one from AETE. An agreement on the establishment of
this committee was reached during negotiations. The appointment of a Project



- 12 -
Director by the Director General Food Crops Agriculture, after consultation
with the Bank, would be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed loan.
4.02      In the light of the Government's  decision to postpone unification
of the extension services for the time being, it is important to institute
arrangements for the effective coordination of the field extension activities
of the different Directorates. Furthermore, the extension activities dealing
with food crops in future agricultural projects should follow closely the
pattern to be developed under this project. Assurances were therefore
obtained that the Ministry of Agriculture would: (a) prepare and submit
to the Bank for comments, within 12 months of loan signature, a proposal
outlining arrangements for coordinating extension activities under the
project with those of the Ministry's other Directorates; and (b) ensure that
extension activities on all future projects dealing with food crops would
follow closely the pattern to be developed under the project.
4.03      Provincial Level.  An Inspector of Agriculture is responsible for
all activities of the DGFCA in each of the provinces. The Inspector and his
staff are administratively responsible to the Provincial Governor and techni-
cally to the DGFCA. Under the Inspector there are five bureaus managed by
Bureau Heads and looking after: Economics; Crop Protection; Planning; Crop
Production; and Extension. Subject Matter Specialists (PPS) are assigned to
the five bureaus in accordance with their area of specialization. All PPS's
operate on a provincial basis, except in some of the more populous provinces
where some of the PPS's operate at a sub-provincial or regency (a grouping of
four to five districts) level. The field work of the PPS's is coordinated by
one of the Bureau Heads, usually the Head of Extension. With the bulk of the
PPS's work being concentrated on extension or extension related activities,
the Extension Bureau Head should be responsible for coordinating their activi-
ties in each of the project provinces. He would report administratively to
the Inspector of Agriculture, but would be responsible to the Project Director
for extension activities. An agreement to this effect was reached with GOI
during negotiations.
4.04      District (Kabupaten) Level.  The five DGFCA provincial bureaus
are represented by five corresponding sections in each district. Under
the project, the Head of the Extension Section would be responsible for
implementation of the extension program in the district, in coordination
with the District BIMAS Committee (para 2.05). He would be assisted by two
middle level extension workers (PPM), one to supervise the REC's and the other
to organize and coordinate the training activities of the extension service.
The number of REC's per district would vary from one to six depending on the
population density in the area. Each REC would be staffed by two PPM's and
from 10 to 20 PPL's depending on the number of VU's and farms served by the
REC. In addition to extension work the PPLs would continue to be responsible
for administrative work under the BIMAS program. Details of the proposed
organization and structure of the extension service are given in Annex 2 and
shown in Chart No. 16010.
Staffing
4.05      All Extension Bureau and Section Heads are already in post and are
excluded from the staff complement tabulation in para 4.06. They generally



- 13 -
have a university degree in agriculture with several years experience in
agricultural extension and a good record in organization and personnel manage-
ment. Provincial and Sub-provincial PPS's would be university trained and
have some degree of specialization. PPM's would have either a university
degree with at least two years of practical experience and specialized train-
ing, or they would be graduates of a Senior Agricultural High School (SPIA)
with six years experience and specialized training. All PPL's would be
graduates of Senior Agricultural High Schools and would receive additional
in-service training.
4.06      The existing staff complement of extension personnel employed in
the nine project provinces and future staff requirements would be as follows:
Staff Complement
Present      Required        Incremental
PPS                        180           300             120
PPM                         -         1,340            1,340
PPL                     3,960         7,600            3,640
At present, the PPM position has not officially been established, although
about 50 supervisory PPL's function as PPM's and are unofficially known as
such. An agreement was reached during negotiations that the grade of
PPL's would be met by recruitment over a four-year period from the Senior
Agricultural High Schools, which turn out about 2,100 graduates annually in
the project provinces. The demand for additional PPM's would be met by
promotion of the more experienced PPL's and sub-district and district admin-
istrative and regulatory staff. The additional PPS's required under the
project would be recruited from university graduates over a four-year
period. The two major agricultural universities in the country turn out
about 260 graduates per year. Provision has already been made in the 1976-77
budget for additional staff positions to cover the first year project require-
ments of 25 PPS's, 140 PPM's and 1,000 PPL's. Assurances were obtained that
adequate, suitably qualified staff would be appointed to all supervisory and
extension positions under the project and that all project staff would re-
ceive a project allowance commensurate with their responsibilities.
Staff Training
4.07      On appointment all staff assigned to the project would undergo an
orientation course. This would be followed by a course in extension method-
ology and one or more courses on technical subjects for all PPM's and PPS's.
Long-term courses for both PPM's and PPS's would be held at the Agricul-
tural Training Institute (ATI) near Bogor or at one of the 13 Agricul-
tural In-Service Training Centers (AITC), which are under the control of
the Agency for Education, Training and Extension (AETE).
4.08      Regular fortnightly training sessions for PPL's would be con-
ducted in village halls or in REC's where the necessary facilities are
available. These courses would be highly topical and practical. They
would deal with only one or two subjects of importance to farming in the



- 14 -
area during the next two to four weeks. At least two annual workshops or
seminars of four to five days would be held in each district for all exten-
sion workers. During these pre-season workshops, the extension strategy and
the extension targets for the coming season would be outlined and discussed
(Annex 4).
Consultants
4.09      An extension specialist would be engaged for a four-year period
to assist DGFCA with all aspects of planning and setting up of the food
crops extension service in the nine project provinces. He would be assisted
by two local counterparts. An assurance was obtained that DGFCA would
appoint an extension specialist within six months of Loan signature on terms
and conditions acceptable to the Bank.
4.10      To assist DGFCA with the staff training program and with specific
crop husbandry problems, 50 man-months of short-term consultant services
would be provided. Consultants would participate in extensive lecturing
and demonstration tours in areas where their special services are required.
Project Monitoring
4.11      Project effectiveness would be gauged from the results of the mon-
itoring program initiated under Irrigation Rehabilitation VI (Loan 1100-IND).
This monitoring program covers nearly 1.0 million hectares of rehabilitated
irrigation areas and data to be generated by it would also be used to
evaluate the present project.
V. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
5.01      The project would reach some 12.8 million farm families, cultivat-
ing about 7.3 million ha of paddy land and about 4.0 million ha of annual
food crops in the nine project provinces. All farmers would benefit from
direct or indirect contact with extension workers, who would convey the most
practical and profitable advice for their crop production enterprise. Total
project costs are US$3.40 per farm family and incremental annual operating
costs, following project completion, amount to US$1.34 per farm family.
5.02      Because of the nature of the project it is not possible to quantify
the benefits, however a hypothetical rate of return calculation is illustrative
of the large benefits to be generated by the project. In order to realize a
20% economic rate of return, the incremental net value of production after
completion of project construction in year seven would have to amount to
US$9.5 million per year (this assumes gradual increases in benefits from 20%
in year three to 100% in year seven of the project). Translating these
benefits into increased production, they represent an annual increase in paddy
output of 8 kg/ha over the without project conditions if we assume that all
benefits were to be derived from paddy growing alone (benefits are based on
1976 paddy prices of Rp 64/kg or US$154 per ton and a total cropped area of



- 15 -
7.3 million ha). With a national mean yield level of 2.5 ton/ha of paddy on
irrigated lands, compared to a potential yield of 3.5 ton/ha using present
knowledge and limited inputs (Annex 3), an increase of 8 kg/ha should be
relatively easy to obtain. Considering that many farmers grow two paddy crops
per year, grow upland crops on non-paddy soils or produce secondary crops
following the main rice crops, the potential benefit from improved extension
activities is likely to be greater than that assumed for paddy alone.
5.03      Aside from generating high economic benefits at a low cost per
participating farm family, the project is also attractive because of its
impact on income distribution. Although it is difficult to evaluate pre-
cisely how the project benefits would be distributed between the very poor and
less poor farmers, the former stand to benefit most from the project since at
present they are often too poor to take advantage of BIMAS loans and thus have
limited access to the extension services.
5.04      The above examples of potential project benefits, together with
the low cost per farm family and the large number of farm families (mostly
in the lowest percentile income group), which would be reached, are indic-
ative of the project's high priority.
VI.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
6.01      During negotiations, agreement with the Government was reached on
the following principal points:
(a)  GOI would make the necessary provisions to acquire the
land needed for the new REC's (para 3.11);
(b)  GOI would provide the funds required to execute the project
to the DGFCA, the BIMAS Secretariat and the provinces in a
timely manner (para 3.18); and
(c)  vehicles imported under the project would be exempt from
existing import restrictions (para 3.20).
6.02      Conditions of effectiveness of the loan would be:
(a)  engagement by DGFCA of a firm of architects acceptable
to the Bank, on terms and conditions to be approved by
the Bank (para 3.12); and
(b)  the appointment by DGFCA of a Project Director, follow-
ing consultation with the Bank (para 4.01).
6.03      The proposed project would be suitable for a Bank Loan of US$22.0
million, with a 25-year maturity including a grace period of six years. The
borrower would be the Republic of Indonesia.






ANNEX 1
Page 3
office, a farmers' cooperative (BUUD/KUD) for input supply and purchase of
paddy or village kiosk to supply inputs and at least one field extension
worker (PPL). In non-irrigated or upland areas there are no set criteria for
She size of the VU and it could comprise a whole sub-district (Kecamatan),
.,e.perding on farm family density and cropping activity. The District G6vern-
.uCent Officer or Bupati in consultation with district agricultural staff
determines the need for VU's. The Governor and his technical staff at provin-
cial level assess the request, and if viable, the Village Unit is gazetted by
the Governor. Requests for the establishments of a BRI office, farmers'
cooperative and the appointment of a PPL are forwarded to the appropriate
Central Government agencies i.e. Bank Rakyat Indonesia (BRI), Department of
Cooperatives, BIMAS secretariat and DGFCA. Provision of facilities depends
upon national priorities and availability of funds and personnel. As a
result, many gazetted VUs may not necessarily be "established" VUs. As a stop
gap measure, the VU may be serviced by an adjacent VU, a village trader may be
appointed to run a kiosk for input supply and credit needs may be met by a BRI
mobile unit.
7.        Credit packages are based on national standardized recommendations
for eacn field crop. Any farmer can apply to join the program, but his cre-
ditworthiness must be established with the village head (Lurah) before the
VU credit office will authorize a loan. The Lurah receives a small in-
centive payment for every farmer receiving credit, with half payment at
loan authorization and the other half when the credit is repaid. The
farmer is required to take 75% of the recommended Urea dressing and at least
2 liters of insecticide in insect prone areas. In practice farmers gain
flexibility by exchanging materials with neighbors. Credit vouchers are used
to obtain fertilizer and insecticide from the village kiosk or the farmers'
cooperative and as cash for seeds, spraying costs and cash living allowance.
Credit may be repaid in cash, or deducted from payments for paddy delivered to
the farmers' cooperative. The Lurah is primarily responsible for assisting
the VU credit office with collection of loans.
8.        The main responsibility of the PPL is to provide technical advice to
the farmers, maintain a check on planted area, yields and production, assist
with planning VU crop production programs and assessment of input requirements
for transmission to the district office. He is also responsible for implement-
ing the national crop cutting program to estimate planted area, yield and
production of paddy. Data from the VU is transmitted to the sub-district
(Kecamatan) and then to to the district where it is used by the district BIMAS
Committee to prepare progress reports, prepare BIMAS and INMAS targets and
estimate input requirements. The compiled data is forwarded up to the
provincial level for purposes of program planning and evaluation. The Provin-
cial Inspectors of Agriculture, District Agricultural Officers and Sub-District
Agricultural Officers bear most of the administrative responsibility for
implementing the BIMAS and INMAS programs.
9.        The BIMAS program is financed by the Central Government.  Never-
theless, once targets have been set at national level for crops, cropped



ANNEX I
Page  4
area, production credit and input supply, participating agencies submit
their own budget requests and receive finance as a portion of their normal
financial allocation to implement their part of the program. In the case
of the RIMAS Secretariat and DGFCA, a special budget is allocated to pay the
salaries and operating expenses and provide the basic equipment for addition-
al PPS, PPM and PPL to strengthen field technical and extension services in
BIMAS areas. As a result, most of the extension personnel and extension ac-
tivities fall under the Director General Food Crops Agriculture and are
financed through the national BIMAS Program.
Scope of the Program
10.       Initially, BIMAS was largely restricted to paddy areas with good
water control. The program was recently expanded to include direct seeded
rice, maize, sorghum, soybean, groundnut, green beans and cassava. Current-
ly, the program covers aobut 40% of the irrigated and rainfed rice land
planted in the wet season and dry season and 4% of the planted secondary
crops (Tables 1 and 2). There is thus considerable potential to expand the
program. The nine project provinces cover 80% of the national irrigated and
rainfed paddy and 79% of the secondary crops. Over 90% of BIMAS activity on
rice and secondary crops takes place within the project provinces.
Potential Impact of the Project on the BIMAS Program
11.       It is recognized that extension is not the only factor affecting
the performance of the BIMAS Program. Improvements must be progressively
made in the timely supply of inputs at village level, seed production and
distribution, the marketing of secondary crops, etc. if full benefits are
to be obtained from the program. Nevertheless, an effective extension ser-
vice is a prerequisite to making the best use of what resources are currently
available at farm level. Furthermore an extension project is the cheapest and
quickest way of bringing some benefit to all farmers.



ANNEX 1
'Table 1
INDO01ESIA
NATIONAL FOOD CROP EXTE1NION PROJECT
BIMAS Coverage in the Project Area
Paddy
Eligible     BIMAS
Project Provinces                   Wet Season - BIMAS area a               BIMAS Area   Coverage3/
78J7 m    71/72     72/73      73/74     74/75       n 77s       74/75
- -___ -----------------'000 Ha--------------------------
West Java                 189.2     176.8      281.2     542.9     619.3    1,141.6         54.0
Central Java              320.5     226.7     354.7      446.6     455.2       870.3        52.0
East Java                 371.4     357.9     470-4      670.3     682.2       905.9        75.0
Jogyakarta               _44.3       41.2      46.1       64.5      70.0       105.5        66.0
Sub-total (Java)      425.4      802.6   1,152.4   1,724.3   1,826.7    3,023.3         60.0
S. Salawesi                29.1      17.0      74.3       67.4      60.9       2814.8       21.0
S. Kalimaa*tan              0.5       1.3      17.2       24.6      56.4       231.1        24.0
N. 9Umatera               16.1       11.9      13.2       61.7       43.9      392.6        11.0
S. Sumatera                 5.4       2.5       4.6        9.1      16.7       111.1        15.0
W. 9umatera               18.2       14.2       27.7      49.8      44.9       120.9        37-0
Sb-total
(Outer Islands)      69.3      46.9    137.0       212.6      222.8    1,140.5        19.0
Project Total         494.7      849.5  1,289.4   1,936.9   2,049.5    4,163.8          49.0
Indonesia              1,051.2      916.5   1,395.6   2,129.4   2,185.5    5,248.9          42.0
Eligible        BIMAS
97 Dry Season - BIMAS Area             BIMS  a         Coverage
1971      1972      1973       1974      1975       l174          1974
------------------------1000 Ha---------- ____
West Java                  81.5      82.5     155.6      267.2     315.6       483.1        55.0
Central Java             111.3       98.5     112.6      164.4     149.8       221.9        74.0
East Java                  50.4      54.8     88.3       169.9     135.5       230.0        73.0
Jogyakarta                 28.2      24.3       22.0      39.5      34.3        64.5        61.0
Sub-total (Java)      271.4      260.1     378.5     641.0      735.2       999.5       64.0
S. Sulawesi                34.4      14.8       20.9      37.3       38.1      119.7        37.0
S. Kalimantan               0.2        -        1.0        0.3       5.1        49.6         1.0
N. Sumatera               12.0        8.5      18.1       33.8      20.0       252.4        13.0
S. Sumatera                1.3        2.4       3.6       11.8      48.8        26.7        44.0
W. Sumatera                25.7      10.4      17.4       36.9      34.9       114.1        32.0
Sub-total
(Outer Islanas)      73.6      36.1       61.0     120.1      146.9      562.5        21.0
Project Total         345.0      296.2     439.5      761.1     782.1    1,562.0        48.7
Indonesia                367.7      326.2     493.4      859.3     881.0    2,093.2         42.0
Source:  BIMAS Secretariat, Jakarta.
1/ Actual BIMAS area as percentage of eligible area.



A NNX 1
Table 2
INDONESIA
NATIONAL FOOD CROPS EXTENSION PROJECT
BIMAS Coverage of Secondary Grops in the Project Area
Project                          JIMAS Area          Area Planted            BIMAS
Provinces                       1974      1975       1974       1975           X
___                   ~      ~~~~~~--   ----O 000   )--------      --(1-
West Java                       10.6      22.3       530.8      443.0           5
Central Java                    32.2     39.9        993.6   1,280.0           3
East Java                       79.9    1o4.5      2,287.2   1,943.9            5
Jogyakarta                       0.7       1.0       220.2      139.1          1
Sub-total (Java)               123.4    167.7      4,031.8   3,806.0           4
S. Sulawesi                     10.1     11.9        247.8      282.6          4
S. Kalimantan                     -         -          7.8       11.1          -
N. Sumatera                      9.8      21.5        81.6      104.2         21
S. Sumatera                      0.9      2.3         37.7       38.1          6
W. Sumatera                       -        o.6        25.3       25.8          2
Sub-total (Oater Islands)       20.8     36.3        400.2     461.8           8
Project Total                  144.2    204.0      4,432.0  14,267.8           5
Indonesia                      154.8    213.4      5,799-0   5,424.4           4
1/  Includes maize, sorghum, groundnut, soybean, green bean, cassava.



ANNEX 2
Page 1
INDONESIA
NATIONAL FOOD CROPS EXTENSION PROJECT
Organization and Management of Food Crops Extension Services
General
1.        The MOA is organized in five Directorates General, two Agencies
and one Secretariat (Chart 9395-2R). The Directorates General for Food Crops
Agriculture, Animal Husbandry, Fisheries and Forestry run their own separate
extension services. The Directorate General for Food Crops Agriculture
(DGFCA) has the largest and best developed service as a result of the BIMAS
program (Annex 1). Staff from the Directorates General assigned to the
provinces remain responsible to their respective Directorates for technical
matters, but are administratively responsible to the provincial Governors.
Salaries, operating expenses, facilities and equipment are jointly financed
from both national and provincial budgets. The line of command runs from the
national level through the provinces to the districts. Provincial Agricultural
Coordinators have been appointed to assist in coordinating the programs and
activities of the five Directorates General within the provinces.
Food Crops
2.        DGFCA is organized in four Directorates (Chart 15755).  The Direc-
torate of Planning is concerned with the planning and development of food
crop production programs. The Directorate of Economics is concerned with
costs of production, inputs and produce and the evaluation of production
data. The Directorate of Agricultural Production is responsible for pilot
projects of 10-50 ha on farmers' fields to assess commercial viability of new
varieties and techniques and for seed production and marketing via provincial
seed farms and private growers. The Directorate of Agricultural Techniques is
responsible for the technical aspects of food crop production programs, in-
cluding plant protection. There is no directorate with specific respons-
ibility for extension. However, the Director General Food Crops Agriculture
is also the head of the BIMAS Secretariat, which finances and administers the
bulk of the extension personnel working on food crops through the national
BIMAS program. Equivalent bureaus and sections carry out the work of the four
Directorates at provincial and district level under the direction of the
Inspectors of Agriculture and District Agricultural Officers respectively.
3.        The food crop extension effort is closely linked with the BIMAS
program for rice and secondary crops. The extension program is based on a
system of Rural Extension Centers (REC), previously known as BPMD's (Education
Center for Rural Community), and Village Units (VU's). A VU comprises 2-3
villages, 600-1,000 ha of rice land and about 1,500 farm families. In non-
irrigated areas a VU may be as large as a subdistrict. Each VU has one field
extension worker (PPL). The PPL is expected to service 15 to 20 contact



ANNEX 2
Page 2
farmers and their followers, which under present circumstances may amount to
as many as 4,000 farm families. For every 10-15 VU's and PPL's there-is
supposed to be an REC for administrative and training purposes, and subject
matter specialists (PPS) to backstop and train the PPL's.
4.         Th extension system is working reasonably well in the few loca-
tions where the above requirements are met. Unfortunately in many areas, the
PPL to farmer ratio is too high, and there is inadequate regular direct con-
tact with farmers. REC's are lacking, or are in a poor state of repair, ex-
tension materials are in short supply, there are few qualified PPS's and
training and supervision of the PPL's is inadequate. Furthermore, extension
activities cover less than 25% of the 8.5 million ha of wet-season paddy.
Proposed Organization
5.        National Level.  The proposed project organization is shown in Chart
16010. DGFCA would be responsible for project implementation. A Project
Director plus a small administrative and technical support staff would be
appointed to undertake the detailed planning, operation and management of the
project. The Director would be assisted by an Extension Specialist, a firm of
architects which would provide assistance with construction and procurement
matters, and short-term specialist consultants as required.
6.        Provincial Level.  The Provincial Inspectors of Agriculture would be
appointed to the National Food Crops Extension Advisory Working Group which
would plan extension activities under the project. The Provincial Bureau Head
for Food Crops Extension would execute the program in the province. He would
report administratively to the Inspector of Agriculture, but would be re-
sponsible to the Project Director for extension activities in the project
province.
7.         The Bureau Head for Food Crops Extension would receive an annual
extension budget from both central and provincial sources for allocation to
district food crops extension programs in the province. He would be advised
by the provincial BIMAS committee.
8.         The Bureau Head for Food Crop Extensions would be assisted by
several provincial PPS's and a training officer. All PPS's would operate
on a province wide basis, except in some of the more populous provinces
where some of the PPS's would operate at the sub-provincial or regency (a
groupinig of four to five districts) level. The PPS's would have high degrees
of specialization within fields relevant to the agricultural pattern and needs
of the province. They would present the latest technological information in
digestible form to extension officers, would answer specific queries related
to their specialty, and would generally backstop extension personnel in the
field.  In addition, the PPS's would conduct some field experiments in con-
junction with research staff. The number of PPS's per province would be
determined on the basis of the need for and availability of expertise. The
Provincial Training Officer would coordinate all in-service training for
food crops in the province. This would include the engagement of lecturers and
trainers from research institutions, universities, other agricultural services



ANNEX 2
Page 3
and private industry. He would be involved mainly with arranging the training
sessions for PPS's and PPM's and the longer sessions for PPL's.
9.1       District Level.  There are 143 districts within the project area
in which 529 Rural Extension Centers (REC) would be established. In the
densely populated districts, there would be five or six REC's, while in the
more sparsely populated areas in Sumatera, South Kalimantan and South Sulawesi
there would be only one REC per district. The District Extension Section
Head would devote full time to supervising the district extension program.
He would report to the District Agricultural Officer but would be responsible
to the Provincial Bureau Head for extension activities. He would be assisted
by two District PPM's, one to supervise REC's and their programs and one for
arranging and coordinating training programs for all extension personnel.
The Extension Section Head would have an annual budget specifically earmarked
for implementing the district extension program.
10.       The Extension Section Head would coordinate his program planning
with the District BIMAS Committee, under the chairmanship of the District
Head (Bupati). The committee would meet a few weeks ahead of the Provincial
Committee to review progress and the proposed program for the next season.
Key points of the program and the committee deliberations would be forwarded
to the province.
11.       The Extension Section Head would further be assisted by several
PPS's from the provincial extension office. They would devote about one-third
of their time to training PPM's and PPL's. Another third would be used to
visit research institutions for observations and discussions with experts, to
attend provincial or national training sessions or to conduct field experiments.
For the rest of the time they would visit farms with PPL's or PPM's to observe
developments in the field, do some troubleshooting, answer queries and have
general discussions with farmers.
Rural Extension Centers
12.       The location of REC's within the districts would be determined on
the basis of accessibility, population density and number of VU's. REC's
would be the bases from which extension services are provided to farmers.
The proposed number of REC's per district and the number of VU's and farmers
served by the REC's are presented for each province in Table 1.
13.       Each REC would be staffed by one Senior Extension Supervisor (PPM)
and one junior PPM. They would be directly responsible for the daily exten-
sion programs of the PPL's assigned to the REC. From 10-20 PPL's would be
attached to each REC, depending on the number of farmers served by the REC.
Operational Methods
14.       Direct contact with the farmer would be made by the PPL stationed
in the VU. Each PPL would deal with all food crops in his working area.



ANNEX 2
Page 4
The variability in cropping pattern or farm enterprise would be fairly-
limited in such a small area. All PPL's would receive intensive regular
training in subjects topical for the season in their area, and they would
be supervised by PPM's and backstopped by PPS's.
15.       A PPL would provide extension to about 1,700 farm families within
a VU. Should the number of farm families justify more than one PPL an extra
PPL would be assigned to the VU. Each PPL would work directly with 16 groups
of farmers, each headed by a contact farmer (kontak tani). These are innovative
farmers of good standing in the community, selected and supervised by extension
personnel. They serve voluntarily. Each farmer group would consist of 10-15
progressive farmers who would contact seven to ten neighboring farmers.
Where farmer groups do not already exist, they would be formed by contact
farmers, who would be encouraged and supervised by the PPL.
16.       The PPL would visit every farmer group once a fortnight on a fixed
day and at a set time. For four days per week, the PPL would visit two
groups each day, one in the morning and one in the afternoon, covering the
16 assigned groups every two weeks. The two remaining days in each week
would be devoted to training, follow-up work with farmers, meetings and
some administrative work. These two days would be available for visits to
groups, which were missed due to public holidays or other unexpected reasons.
17.       During the visits to farmer groups, the PPL would inspect the
fields of four to five farmers selected jointly by him and the contact
farmer. All farmers would be invited to be present during the PPL's regular
visit to one of the selected farms and the progressive farmers would be
expected to attend. All farmers would have the opportunity to obtain instruc-
tion although it might not be in their own field. It is expected that each
progressive farmer would convey the substance of the recommendations to his
seven to ten neighbors if they had not attended the field visit.
18.       In every season the PPL would conduct in each contact farmer's
area, one or more simple demonstrations of the best available varieties and
cultural techniques, which would give farmers greater production and income.
The demonstrations would be used regularly during the season for farmer in-
struction.
19.       Each PPM would supervise and assist his assigned PPL's at regular
intervals. He would ensure that PPL's carry out their schedule of regular
visits to farmer groups. The PPL would consult the PPM regarding the prob-
lems encountered in his VU and he would inspect with him examples of improved
practites in farmers' fields and in demonstration plots.  The PPL would be
able to call for assistance with specific problems upon the district PF-'.
PPL's would record their daily activities and findings in a diary, and
would not be involved in administrative work other than that required it!lder
the BIMAS/INMAS program (Annex 1).



ANNEX 2
Page 5
20.       The PPM would analyze continually the primary production situation
in his area and he would propose the extension priorities program consistent
with the need of farmers, local production methods, cropping patterns, com-
modity prices and marketing outlook. Extension targets would be set up in
consultation with the District BIMAS Committee. Initially, the greatest
extension emphasis would be placed on a few critical practices with economically
important food crops where the probability of quick results is greatest. This
focussing of effort would prevent a thin spread of extension and it would
improve the chance of holding the continuing interest of both farmers and
extension officers.
Transportation
21.       Provincial and District Food Crops Extension Officers would be
provided with a Government vehicle, which would enable them to supervise
their officers in the field and to maintain contact with other agencies
dealing with agricultural matters.
22.       Provincial PPS's would be individually supplied with a four-wheel
drive vehicle. This would allow-them to attend training sessions in the
districts, to visit farms where investigations need to be carried out and to
remain in contact with research and experimental work on research institutes
and field stations within, and possibly outside, the province in which they
are stationed. All other PPS's would be provided with motorcycles. In
addition four-wheel drive vehicles would be supplied in the ratio of one
vehicle to four PPS's, excluding the Provincial PPS's equipped with individual
vehicles.
23.       All PPM's stationed at REC's and District PPM's would be provided
with a motorcycle.
24.       About 80% of all PPL's have their work within 10-12 km of their
domicile and the REC to which they are attached is at about the same distance.
They would be provided with a bicycle. About 20% of PPL's in more remote
areas would be provided with a motorcycle. All PPL's would be sufficiently
mobile to conduct their daily visits to farmer groups and to attend training
sessions.
Accomodation
25. -     Provincial and District Food Crops Extension Officers would have
offices within the existing buildings in the provincial or district capitals.
PPS's and Training Officers would be located in the same buildings. REC's
would have offices for PPM's and they would live near the REC.  PPL's would
live in their assigned VU.
Staffing
26.       The present and future staff complement of the Food Crops Exten-
sion Service in the nine project provinces is presented in Table 2 and the



ANNEX 2
Page 6
staff build-up would be achieved in the first four years of the project as
follows:
Designation       Year 1      Year 2      Year 3     Year 4      Total
PPS              25          25          35         35         120
PPM             140         400        400         400       1,340
PPL           1,000       1,000      1,000         640       3,640
Total Staff Appointments          5,100
27.       PPM's would be appointed from the most experienced and suitable PPL's
and district agricultural staff. All would have either an academic training
(ex-Agricultural Academy - Bogor) or would be graduates of Senior Agricultural
High Schools (SPMA) 1/. Their original positions would be filled from newly
appointed PPL's, who would be attracted from the SPMA graduates.  The estimated
annual output of SPM4A graduates in the nine project provinces increases from
2,100 in 1976 to 2,300 in 1981 and is sufficient to meet the demands of the
extension service.
28.       The additional PPS's required under the project would be recruited
from university graduates. The two major agricultural universities turn out
about 260 graduates per year, sufficient to meet the demand.
29.       Basic salaries, as provided for in the 1968 Civil Service Law
(Table 3), and all standard allowances (Table 4) would be paid to the staff
in accordance with their grading. Some allowances vary between provinces.
Other fringe benefits may include a travel allowance or a hardship allowance.
1/   Senior Agricultural High Schools were rehabilitated or constructed under
the second Education Project, Credit 288-IND.



INDONESIA
NATIONAL FOOD CROPS EXTENSION PROJECT
Rural Population in Administrative Units and REC's
Total     Total    Number Village Units                         Rural Extension Centers
Number    Number                               Numberl/         To Be .       To Be    Total
Province          Districts Villages 1975  1981  Incremental Farm Families Rehabilitated Constructed 1 981
'West Java                    20      2,401  1,157 1 ,478     321        2,854             12          137        149
Central Java                 30       7,000    600 1,230      630         3,489            65            37        102
East Java                    30       8,294  1,100 1,845       745        3,968            54            57        111
Yogjakarta                    4         399     62   102       40            328            6             6         112
North Sumatera                11      5,4)53    313   407       94    i      582             9            28        37
Wdest Sumatera               10         564    200   267       67           442             7            21         28
South Sumatera                6         960     87   205      118           325             3            18         21
South Sulawesi               23       1,165    266   418      152           650            17            29         46
South Kaliman-tan             9         378  _52|   218       i66           203             6.           17         23
Total Project Provinces    143       26,614 ) 34 37 6,170   2,333        12,841           179-          350        529
Total Indonesia             233  l   l              _                    16,170 l
1/  Based on recent data from Project: Provinces and Statistik Indonesia, 1972/73 (Biro Pusat Statistik-Jakarta).
IH|
It-     f\



INDONESIA
NATIONAL FOOD CROPS EXTENSTON SERVICE
Staffing of the Food Crops Extension Service
Number PPL                       Number PPM 1/                    Numb-er PPSS
At         In
Present    1981   Increm.    REC's   District   Increm.    Present   1981   Increm.
Wqest Java             1,046    1,641       595        296         40          336         36       49         13
Centra3l Java            790    1,432       642        204         58          262         30       57        27
East Java              1,081    1,846       765        222         60          282         35       62        27
Jogyakarta                77       206      129         24          8           32         10       10
North Sarnatera          262       687      425         74         22           96          15      22          7
Wiest Suimiatera         203       4 50     247         56         PO           76          10       20        10
South Sumatera           111       345      234         42        12            54         10       15          5
South Sulpawesi          280       618      338         92         46          138         25       50         25
South Kalirnantan        110       375      265         46         18           64          8       14         6
Total Proje t
Provinces        3960    76         3,6640 12 056           284        1,340         17$9     299       120
1/  There nre no PPM's at present, although about 50 PPL's are currentjy functioning as PPM's.
fv J
_                                                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CDt



INDONESIA
NATION%iL 7003D C.CPS EXTF14STCN PF0JEGT
1968 Civil Service Law: Basic Salary Scale
(Monthly Basic Salary in Rupiahs)
Y--f  Ye                              S  ary Scale I  _  Years   Sala  Scale III    Years            Salary Scale IV
of    i                     of                            of                    I       of         .
Service  a   b    c    d jService  a    b    c    d   Service  a    b    c  'd   Service  a    b    c    d              e
o 400 ,    
1     _
2    440
3     -   520  600  690
4    480  -    -    -
5     -   584  680  792
6    520  -    -    -       0    1350
7     -   648  760  888    1       -
8    560  -    -    -       2    1520
9     -   712  840  984    3       -   1860 2080 2320
10    600  -    -    -       4    1690  -    -    -
11     -   776  920 1080    5       -   2060 2300 2560    0    2820 3120 3440 37801  0
12    640  _    - _          6    1860  -    -    -        1      -    -    -    - _
13     -   840 1000 1176    7       -   2260 2520 2800    2    3100 3420 3760 4120:   2
14     -   -    -    -        8   12030: -    -    -       3      -    -    -    -       3
15    700  904  080 1272       9        2460 2740 3040    4    3380 3720 4080 4460!  4    4920
16   17-  9-   1     2 -    l      220011-    -    -       5      _    _    _    -       5      -
17     -   -  I-    -       11      -   2660 29603280    6    3660 4020 4400 48001   6    5280 5740
18    760 1000 12001141616 12    23701 -    -    -         7      -    -    -  |         7      -    -
19     -   -    -    -      13      -   2860 3180'3520    8    3940 4320 4720 5140.   8    5660 6140 6640
20     -   -    -    -      14      -    -    -    -        9     -    -    -    -       9      -    -    -
21     -  1096 1320 1560   15    2625 306013400 3760   10    4220 4620 5040 54801  10    6040 6540 706017600
22     - I _16                      -    -    -    -      11      -    -    -    - -  11        -    -    -   i -
23                          17      -    -    -    -      12    4500 4920 5360 5820l  12    6420 6940 748018040  8620
18    2880 3360 3730 4120   13       -    -    -    -  I  13       -    -    -    _      _
19     -    -    -    -       14     -    -    -      - 14         -    -    -     -      -
20     -    -    -    -       15    4920 5370 5840j6320.  15    6990 7450 8110 8700  9310
21     -   36601406014480   16       -    -    _    _       16     -    -    -    -       -
22     -    -    -    -       17     _    _                 17     _    - _        _      -
23     - _        - _      I 18    5340 5820 6320o681ho   18    756081J40i8740 9360 10000



INDONESIA
NATIONAL FOOD CROPS EXTENSION PROJECT
Monthly Salary Calculations
of Extension Personnel in West Java
1975
Wife/Husband Children  Position  Inflation                          1/       Other
Basic    Allowance  Allowanc  Allowance Allowance Reduction   Food       Project Allowance
StAtus and fears of Service          Salary    (5%)         (2%)     (20%)      22L        (10%)  Allowance  Allowance  (Avere    Net   ary
-_____ -----------------------------___-(Ruphiahs      --  __                          ____  _(Rp)-  .-(f0-
Head District Extension Service          4,620      231.00      92.40     924      41,580    462.00      580        7,500     7,500    63,489  152.98
15 years experience
salary scale III/b
Subject Matter Specialist (PPS)          3,100      155.00      62.00     620      27,900    310.00      580        5,000     5,800    42,727  102.93
3 years experience
salary scale III/a
Middle Level Extension Worker (P1bt)      1,880     940.00      37.60     376       16,920    188.00     580         2,500     4,500    27,922   67.28
3 years experience
salary scale II/b
Field Extension Worker (PPL)              1,520     76.00       30.40     304       13,680    152.00     580        2,500      3,000    21,842   52.63
3 years experience
salary scale II/a                               l             .                                                   .__
1/ A BIMAS allowance.



ANNEX 3
Page 1
INDONESIA
NATIONAL FOOD CROPS EXTENSION PROJECT
Food Crops Production and Extension Targets
1.        The most important crops, occupying the largest acreage within the
project area, are: paddy, maize, cassava, soyabeans, groundnuts and vege-
tables (Table 1). Their present average yields, future yields using present
knowledge and limited inputs and future yields using the best production
techniques and required inputs, are presented in Table 2. Significant yield
increases could be obtained should farmers be able and willing to use present
knowledge and available inputs.
2.        At present, many Indonesian farmers are aware of the existence of
high-yielding varieties and effective agro-chemicals, but need advice on
proper usage. A well functioning, adequately staffed Food Crops Extension
Service would reach most of the farmers directly or indirectly and would be
able to convince them to use suitable combinations of modern varieties,
production techniques and crop protection measures. Timely availability of
inputs, particularly in more remote areas, is presently a serious yield-
limiting factor and would need to be remedied.
3.        Subsidized inputs, such as fertilizers and agro-chemicals, are
presently made available for paddy, most secondary crops, sugarcane and
poultry and it is envisaged that these inputs would become available in
greater quantities in future years. Seed and plant material of superior
varieties and strains are being increased at special seed farms and nurseries.
Research programs in Indonesia and in neighboring countries would continue
to develop new cultural methods and new plant protection techniques. An
improved distribution system to more isolated farming villages is also
envisaged, together with better storage facilities.
4.        The Indonesian farmer needs to be exposed to the existing body of
knowledge and to be encouraged to utilize the available improved planting
material and other inputs. The main aim of the agricultural extension ser-
vice, which would be expanded and improved under the project, would be to
deal-with this challenge. Further yield and production improvements would
be achieved when new knowledge becomes available from future research
efforts. Regional adaptive research is required before extension person-
nel can recommend further refinements in production techniques.
5.        New varieties, cultural techniques, etc., are most quickly adopted
if farmers are able to obtain credit for the purchase of inputs, together
with a cash living allowance, during the growth period of the crop.
Availability of markets at satisfactory prices for their product is another
incentive for farmers to improve productivity. Extension workers would have
to consider all these aspects in making recommendations.



ANNEX 3
Page 2
A.   Paddy
6.        Within the project area, paddy is the major food crop, grown on
some 7.3 million ha. The monsoonal climate, with rainfall in the range of
1,500-2,000 mm, is ideal for paddy growing during the wet season. Irrigation
is essential for dry-season cropping. Rainfed paddy, grown in the wet sea-
son, is vulnerable to prolonged periods of drought or to damaging floods.
The latter may also reduce yields on irrigated land.
7.        During 1961-71, there was a drop in the rate of area expansion to
1.4% per year and a substantial acceleration in yield increase to 2% per
year. Mainly as a result of Government measures taken during Pelita I,
rice production increased from 10.8 million tons of milled rice in 1968 to
15.0 million tons in 1974. The most important of the measures were: (a; c:he
rehabilitation of existing irrigatica systems; (b) a price support program;
(c) the provision of subsidized inputs, improved seeds of high-yielding
varieties on credit and a cash living allowance for farmers under the
BIMAS program; and (d) a substantial allocation of funds to research and
extension. All new land development, about 100,000 ha per year, has occurred
outside Java. Growth in paddy output in Java has been due almost entirely to
intensification of cropping and higher yields.
8.         Cultural aspects of all methods of paddy growing and paddy produc-
tion constraints have been discussed in the Irrigation Program Survey
(Report No. 705-IND) and in many of the Irrigation Rehabilitation Project
reports and are not repeated here. Extension personnel would focus mainly
on the following aspects of paddy growing:
Irrigated Paddy
(a) Usage of good quality seed of high-yielding disease-
resistant varieties with a growth duration of 110-125
days and acceptable palatability;
(b) Preparing a weed-free plant bed, applying one-third
of the nitrogen fertilizer and all required phosphate
fertilizer before the last soil preparation, trans-
planting in rows, applying one-third of the nitrogen
fertilizer during tillering, frequent hand weeding, a
final topdr,essing of one-third of the nitrogen fertilizer
at panicle initiation and controlling rats and insects;
(c) Draining rice fields at late-milk or soft-dough stage
of the grain to ensure an even ripening, a timely
harvest at 18-22% grain moisture and drying of the
stalk paddy or grain; and
(d) Developing an area-wide cropping pattern to facilitate
water ma,nagement and pest and disease control.



ANNEX 3
Page 3
Rainfed and Upland Paddy
(a) Usage of proven adapted varieties;
(b) Direct seeding at row spacings, suitable for the
variety, into a weed-free seedbed. Using some
fertilizer during early tillering and at panicle
initiation provided some water is available; and
(c) Controlling pests.
B.   Secondary Crops
9.        Upland crops, or field crops other than paddy, are often desig-
nated secondary crops. Many of these crops are also grown outside rice
areas. Maize is the principal cereal, while sorghum is a relatively new
crop to Indonesia. Soyabeans, groundnuts and mung beans are legume crops
traditionally grown by many smallholders. Tobacco is a popular contract-
grown crop on smallholders' land in East Java, but does not occupy a large
acreage. Traditionally, sugarcane was almost exclusively grown by estates on
land rented on an 18-month basis from smallholders. Recently, about 10% of
these smallholders were allowed to grow sugarcane which will lead to an
increase in the area of ratoon cane.
10.       The emphasis on paddy through the BIMAS program has caused a shift
in land use from other secondary crops into paddy, particularly on densely
populated Java. In order to encourage production, a new BUIAS program was
implemented in the 1973/74 planting season to provide support for maize,
soyabeans and groundnuts. The program was further extended to cassava and
smallholder sugarcane in 1975.
11.       Yields of all dry-land field crops are low and can be improved
substantially by using present varieties, known cultural techniques and
available inputs. However, additional research data are required, partic-
ularly at regional tevel, and new varieties need to be tested under local
conditions before an even greater impact can be made.
Maize
12.       This important smallholder crop is anticipated to be grown with
BIMA-S/INMAS inputs on 540,000 ha in both wet and dry seasons in 1975.  Ex-
tension effort would be focused on:
(a) Correct choice of variety for each situation. Downy
mildew-resistant varieties maturing in less than 110
days are required when grown on residual moisture,
following rice, or on higher grounds after the
rainy season. Where the crop is grown as a mono-
culture, late maturing varieties can be used;



ANTNEX 3
Page 4
(b)  Pr -plant fertilizer applications;
(c)  Coirec_ row spacing for each situation, delj>ldmg
variety, fertilizer usage, time of planting and weed
control;
(d)  Insect control; and
(e)  Local preferences with regard to grain color and cropping
pattern.
Sorghum
13.       This relatively easily-grown crop can be successfully ratooned
when adequate nutrients are supplied. Efforts would be made to give this
crop greater popularity with smallholders. Adaptation and varietal screEl-
ing experiments are required to provide extension workers more informati n
on which to base their recommendations. It is anticipated that some 35 000
ha sorghum would be grown with BIMAS/INMAS inputs in 1975.
S oyabeans
14.       A new high-yielding Indonesian variety has recently been released,
which would be suitable for most situations in the country. Popularization
of this and other new varieties, together with timely sowings of viable seed
at the correct row spacing and weeding during the early stages of growth
would assist in improving the present low yields. Local adaptation and veri-
fication trials of varieties and techniques are necessary to provide exten-
sion workers with information on which to base their recommendations to
smallholders. BIMAS/INMAS targets for soyabeans in 1975 are 160,000 ha, of
which 107,600 ha would be grown in the dry season.
Groundnuts
15.       Many varieties are grown and average yields are low.  Extension
workers would have to determine which varieties, in combination with what
cultural practices (row spacing, hilling, phosphate application), produce
highest yields for heavy lowland soils and lighter upland soils respectively.
Considerable information is available from experiments conducted in previous
years.
Mung and Other Beans
16.       Results from locally-conducted varietal and method of cultivation
trials are the best guides for extension workers' recommendations. Main
emphasis would be placed upon choice of species and variety, soil preparation,
seed spacing, phosphate application and freedom from weeds during crop growth.



ANNEX 3
Page 5
Cassava
17.       This crop is particularly popular on poorer soils, where it can
produce a profitable crop, even in periods of prol] aged drought. It is,fre-
quently grown on steep slopes without adequate erosion-control measures being
taken. Future prices and markets for roots and processed products, such as
pellets and dried chips, will determine an expansion in area and/or an in-
tensification of cropping. Cassava is highly responsive to fertilizer
applications and good cultural practices. Extension workers would recommend
the use of low HCN-content plant material, erosion-control measures, the use
of fertilizers, a deep soil preparation and continuous weeding during early
growth to obtain highest yields.
Sweet Potatoes
18.       This crop is not as drought tolerant as cassava and produces
highest yields on reasonably fertile soils, both factors which preclude
a great expansion in area. The extension service would recommend the use
of strong tuber plant material, correct spacing on hills, weed-free growing
conditions and the use of fertilizers as practices leading to higher yields.
Vegetables
19.       A wide variety of vegetables is grown in four agro-climates,
based on water distribution and temperature:
Low Lands    : Up to about 300 m
High Lands   : 600 m and above
Wet           : No distinctive "dry" period, i.e.,
months with less than 40 mm of rain
Dry           : A distinctive "dry" period (five-seven
months), and less than 2,000 mm of rain
per year
In the wet high lands cabbage, Chinese cabbage and cauliflower are grown,
together with carrots and some beans. In the dry high lands potatoes,
tomatoes, beans and some other vegetables are produced. In the low lands
a wide variety of tropical vegetables are grown, mainly in small house
garderfs. Extension efforts would be directed to yield or quality-limiting
factors for each vegetable in a particular area. Considerable local re-
search information is available for high-land vegetables. Special atten-
tion would be placed on marketing of all vegetables.



INDON EIA
NATIONAL FOOD CROPS EXTENSION PROJvCT
Major Food Crops within Project Area
Paddy (total                             Ground     Green                  Sweet
Provinces                         all methods)    Maize      Soybeans       nuts       beans     Cassava    Potato      Vegptable
--------------------------------------('00O ha)---------------------------------------------
West Java                             1,924           83           25          54         10          213       55            149
Central Java                          1,258          423          125          82          8         360        44           n.a.
Vast Java                             2,131          964          402         120         28         502        59            122
Jogyakarta                              110           38           30          30          5          58         2           n.a.
N. Sumatera                              577          25            4            6         3           19       27             20
W. Sumatera                              279           5            1            4         2            6        3             10
S. Sumatera                             320            4            1           4          1          15         4          n.a.
S. Kalimantan                            9)25          4            1           2          1            3        2           n.a.
S. Sulawesi                             490          167            3           E         31           43       12              5
Total Project Provinces            7,31h        1,713          592         317         89       1,219       208          n.a.
Total Indonesia                    8,383        2,160          698         354        130       1,468       338           n.a.
% in Project Provinces                 87          79           85          90         68           83       62           n.a.
Total Secondary Crops        -       About 4 million ha
1/  Based on Statistik Indonesia - Biro Pusat Statistik, Jakarta, 1972-73
supplemented with some later information on paddy and vegetables.



AINEX 3
Table 2
INO LESIA
N!:A ', TOIAL FOOD CROPS EXTEaSIONj FPROJIT
Present and Future Yields of Irmortant Crops
Future Yield,            Future Yield,
Present      Using Present           Using Improved
Average      Knowledge &          Production Techniques
Yield       Limited Inputs       & Required Inputs
___  _____ ________ (Tk7ha) ----------- …--
Padc~r
Irrigated           2,500            3,500                     4,500
Rainfed             1,500             2,500                    3,000
Upland              1,OO0             1,500                    2,000
Maize                   800             1,500                    3,000
Soyabeans               700             1,200                    2,500
Groundnuts              750             1,500                    2,000
Cassava               7,500            12,000                   25,000
Sweet Potatoes        7,500            10,000                   15,000



ANNEX 4
Page 1
INDONESIA
NATIONAL FOOD CROPS EXTENSION PROJECT
Staff Training
General
1.        An effective extension officer must be able to convey the latest
technical and managerial information on food crop production in a clear,
competent manner. He must therefore be motivated and well trained in both
crop production techniques and extension methodology. At present, exten-
sion officers are inadequately trained and are not as effective as they should
be. Under the project all extension personnel would receive regular, systematic
and relevant training, aimed at a rapid improvement of production techniques.
2.        All newly recruited staff would be given an extensive orientation
course. Long term courses would be conducted at the Agricultural Training
Institute (ATI) near Bogor or in one of the 13 Agricultural In-Service Train-
ing Centers (AITC) which are all under the control of the Agency for Education
Training and Extension (AETE).  Regular fortnightly training sessions for
PPL's would be conducted in village halls or in REC's where the necessary
facilities are available. Joint meetings between the district's agricultural,
administrative, regulatory and extension staff would be held in a suitable
hall within the district.
Subject Matter Specialists (PPS)
3.        On appointment, all PPS's would undergo an orientation course of
three weeks duration. The courses would be organized by the Provincial
Training Officer at an AITC or at any other suitable institution. The
courses would introduce the participants to the organization and functions
of MOA, DGFCA, and other MOA departments and organizations. They would also
learn about the BIMAS program, the operations of farmers' organizations, water
users' associations and other regulatory bodies. Field visits to a research
institution, a Regional Information Center (RIC) and other relevant institu-
tions would be made.
4.        During the first year of service all PPS's would attend a course
in extension methodology. This course would be conducted at the ATI near
Bogor in West Java, and would be of about one month duration.
5.        PPS's are presently grouped into four categories:  General Agronomy,
Soils and Plant Nutrition, Plant Protection and Agro-Economics. Refresher
courses are organized for each group at universities and research institu-
tions. These courses, presently of one month duration but about to be ex-
tended to two or three months, are technically oriented. All PPS's would be
nominated for these courses at least once every five years. These courses,



ANNEX 4
Page 2
together wit' the regular information available from the RIC's, local research
stations and technical publications would keep all PPS's adequately informed
of the latest technical progress applicable to their areas of responsibility.
Hcads of Extension Services
6.        Provincial and district heads of the extension service would at-
tend an annual course of two weeks duration. The progress and shortcomings
of the extension program during the previous year would be discussed along
with the extension policies and methodology. Some technical topics would
also be placed on the program. Senior extension administrators and PPS's
would be discussion leaders.
Extension Supervisors (PPM)
7.        All PPM's responsible for the supervision and administration of
the extension service at the lowest level, would require considerable mana-
gerial, administrative and technical knowledge. Their initial training would
consist of a four-week course in one of the AITC's.
8.        Within the districts, at least two annual workshops or seminars of
four to five days would be held for PPL's, PPM's and PPS's, jointly. These
courses are important since they bring together the supervisors and PPS's
with the field extension officers. During the courses, it would be decided
how the extension work would be carried out in the field and each of the
participants would know exactly what his role in the extension process is
and upon whom he can call when he needs assistance.
9.        In addition, PPL's and PPM's would attend two one-week courses deal-
ing with more general topics, such as crop rotation, fertilizer requirements,
extension methodology and other relevant, not highly technical subjects.
PPM's would attend the fortnightly training sessions for PPL's under their
supervision.
Extension Workers (PPL)
10.       The regular fortnightly courses of one-day duration for PPL's,
attended also by PPM's, would be designed to teach PPL's practical knowledge,
which they would impart to farmers in the following two weeks. Trainers for
these courses would be the district or provincial PPS's, other staff from
DGFCA and research organizations. The District Training Officers would make
all the necessary arrangements for the courses, would draw up training rosters
and engage part-time lecturing staff.
11.       During each training session, only a few topIcs would be dealt with.
In the first part of the day there would be a lecture, followed by field
work where participants would go through all steps of the recommended techni-
ques. Group discussions would conclude the day. The instructor would ensure
during the discussion that all participants understood the underlying principles
and the practical application of the technique. The instructor would also
outline and encourage discussion on the most effective method of extension
for a particular technique or practice.



ANNEX 4
Page 3
12.       During the next two weeks following the training course, the PPL
would meet the farmer groups, headed by the contact farmers, at their usual
time in the field. He would pass on the information from the training and he
would demonstrate the technique. With the assistance of the contact farmer
and one or more progressive farmers, he would lay out a demonstration plot,
which would remain a subjec- for discussion or for further demonstrations
throughout the growing season. The PPL would work closely with the contact
farmer and- the progressive farmers in his area. He would motivate these
farmers to adopt the new or improved techniques quickly, so that their farms
would serve as examples in the neighborhood.
13.       The PPL would organize occasional  evening meetings in the village
hall to which all farmers would be invited. The PPL would introduce the
subjec- of the evening which would be topical for the farmers. Following
introductory words by the PPL, a PPS would speak in more detail on the subject,
using a film or slides to illustLate the lecture and to assist in capturing
the audience. Their would then be a period of questions and answers. The PPL
would also arrange field trips to demonstration plots or to outstanding fields
of local farmers. The farmers in whose fields the demonstrations are located
would be encouraged to explain the techniques used, and the results obtained.
14.       Under the project, DGFCA would engage consultants for short periods.
They would impart their special subject knowledge to PPS's and other relevant
extension personnel. Special lecturing and demonstration tours would be
arranged by DGFCA and the Heads of the Provincial Agricultural Extension Ser-
vices for these short-term consultants.
Fellowships
15.       Under the project, fellowships would be provided for extension
staff of DGFCA to pursue their studies abroad. Study trips would be awarded
to extension personnel and prominent innovative farmers, who would study
and observe advanced extension methods and farming techniques in rural
areas of neighboring Asian countries.
16.       Six overseas post-graduate fellowships would be awarded to profes-
sionals engaged in the administration and execution of extension services.
Candidates would be nominated by the Provincial Food Crops Extension Officer
and selected by the Director-General for Food Crops Agriculture. Preference
would be given to established staff with a satisfactory record of performance,
or to jiromising new recruits after at least one year of satisfactory service
as a PPS. On their return beneficiaries would have to work on an appropriate
program for a period t least equal to the duration of their fellowship.
17.       Short term fellowships of about six months would be awarded to PPS's
and outstanding qualified PPM's. Candidates would participate in the Rice
Production or the Multiple Cropping courses at the International Rice Research
Institute (IRRI) in the Philippines. Ten of these fellowships would be
available each year.



ANNEX 4
Page 4
18.       Provision would be made for a total of about 150 study trips-to
Asian countries. These would be available to 100 extension officers and
50 prominent farmers. Candidates would be selected from PPL's and PPM's
nominated by the Provincial Extension Officers and from farmers nominated by
the extension personnel to the Provincial Extension Officers.



ANNEX 5
Table 1
INDONESIA
NATIONAL FOOD CROPS EXTENSION PROJECT
Cost Estimate
Foreign
Local  Foreign  Total    Local  iForeign  Total    Exchange
--(Rp Billion)-                -(Us$'000)--- -
1. CaP2ital Costs
Land Acquisition            0.90     -      0.90    2,160      -     2,160         0
Construction 350 RECts      0.59    0.25    0.84    1,420      610   2,030       30
Rehabilitation 179 REC's   o.35    o.og    o.44        855     215   1,070        20
Construction Project HQ    0.03    O.01    0.04         70      30     100        30
Vehicles                    0.30    2.61    2.91       700   6,300   7,000        90
Equipment & IBrniture       0.29    1.20    1.49       720   2,880   3,600        80
Sub-Total              2.46    4.16    6.62    5,925  10,035  15,960         63
Contingencies               0.21    0.24    0.45      495      575   1,070       5h
Sub-Total              2.67    4.40    7.07    6,420  10,610  17,030         62
2. Training & Consultants
Overseas Training           0.04    0.21    0.25      100      500     600        83
In-service Training         0.74     -      0.74    1,7b5      -    1,785          0
Consultants                 0.04    0.21    0.25      100      500     600        83
Sub-Total              0.82    0.42    1.24    1,985   1,000   2,985         33
3. Incremental Oper. Costs
O&M REC's, Turniture,
Equipment & Vehicles        0.51    0.13    0.64    1,230      310   1,540        20
Extension Activities        1.43    0.16    1.59    3,445      385   3,830       10
Salaries                    2.93     -      2.93    7,060      -     7,060         0
DGFC Admin. Overhead        0.41     -      0.41 4   l000      -    1,000          0
Sub-Total              5.28    0.29    5.57   12,735       695 13,430         5
Sub-Total Project Cost      8.77    5.11   13.88   21,140 12,305  33,h45          37
Expected Price Increases   3.02    1.15    4.17    7,280   2,775  10,055          28
Total Ext. Proj. Cost     11.79    6.26   18.05   282420  15,080  43,500         35
IRRI Contract (Cr 246-IND) _        0.29    0.29       -       700     700      100
TOTAL                 11.79    6.55   18.34   28,420  L 70        200        36



ANNEX 5
Table 2
INDONESIA
NATIONAL FOOD CROPS EXTENSION PROJECT
Capital Cost Estimate
US$ Million
1. Land Acquisition
Java - 240 ha @ US$7,300                                1.75
Cuter Islands - 115 ha @ US$3,600                       0.41
Sub-Total                                        2.16
2. Civil Works_/
Rehabilitation of 179 existing REC's
Q US$6,000 each                                      1.07
Construction of 350 new REC's
§ US$5,800 each                                       2.03
Construction of Project Headquarters Facility            0.10
Sub-Total                                        3.20
3.  Vehicles                                                     7.00
4. Equipment and  urniture                                       3.60
5.  Physical Contingencies
(15% on Items 2 and 4)                                  1.07
Total                                           17.03
1/  Construction costs of new REC's based on 40 m2 building © US$145/m2.
Rehabilitation costs based on 150 m2 building @ US$40/n .
Project Headquarters, built as addition to existing BIMAS headquarters,
based on 200 m  @ US$500/m2 fully equipped.
Includes 12.5% for design and construction supervision.



ANNEX 5
Table 3
INDONESIA
NATIONAL FOOD CROPS EXTENSION PROJECT
Incremental Operating Costs
Year 1       Year 2       Year 3       Year 4       Year 5
IBRD Fiscal Year                          FY '77       FY '78       FY '79       FY '80       FY '81          Total
REC's
Rehabilitation             No              20           60           55           44           -              179
New Construction           No              20          100          100          100            30            350
Total                      No              40          160          155           144           30            529
1. Maintenance of REC's
REC's (a)                    No              -            40           200          355          499
Costs 1/       (US$ '000)                    _             10           35           60           90            195
2.  0 & M Transport
Rate of Build-up (b)         %               -            10           40            70          100
Costs 2/       (US$ '000)                    -            60           245          430          610          1,345
3. Extension Activities
REC's (a)                    No              -            40           200          355          499
Costs 3/       (US$ '000)                    -           140           700       1,245         1,745          3,830
4. Salaries
Rate of Build-up (c)
PPS                        No              25           25           35            35          -              120
PPM                        No             140          400          400          400           -            1,340
PPL                        No           1,000        1,000        1,000           640          -            3,640
Costs 4/       (US$ '000)                   775        1,760        1,985         1,770          770          7,060
5.  Administration
Rate of Build-up (d)         %                20           55          85           100           90
Costs 5/       (US$ '000)                     60          160          240          280          260          1,000
TOTAL COSTS   (US$ '000)                     835        2,130       3,205         3,7B5        3,475         13,430
Rates of Build-up
(a) Same as rate of cumulative REC build-up, slipped one year.
(b)  Rate for 0 & M Transport based on estimated delivery date (Chart 15765R).
(c)  Rates for Salaries based on staff build-up (Chart 15765R).
(d)  In line with cost build-up of items 1 through 4.
Notes
1/  At 3% p.a. of capital costs (US$ 175/annum/REC).
2/ At 10/o p.a. of capital costs.
3/ At US$ 3,500/REC/annum (including 0 & M furniture & equipment).
4/ Based oi,annual salary levels of:
-PPS - uS$ 1,235
PPM -  US$   810
PPL -  US$   630
Cost of each incremental post included in project cost for two years only.
5/  DGFC overMeads.



ANNEX 5
Table 4
INDONESIA
NATIONAL FOOD CROPS EXTENSION PROJECT
Fellowships, Overseas Training
and Consulting Services
US$
1. Overseas Training
6 Post-graduate Fellowships                  130,000
50 Short-term Fellowships (IRRI)              175,000
100 Staff Study Tours to Asian
Countries                            165,000
50 Farmer Study Tours to Asian
Countries                             85,000
Conference Attendance by Staff              45,000
Sub-total                   600,0OC
2. Consulting Selvices
Extension Specialist (50 man-months)       300,000
Short-term Subject Matter Specialists
(50 man-months)                      300,000
Sub-totzl                   600,000
TOTAL                     1,200,000



ANNIEX 5
Table 5
INDONESIA
NATIONAL FOOD CROPS EXTENSION PROJECT
In-Service Training for Incremental Staff
1. -Summary of Costs
Training Cost
Grade        NO        Training Ste        Unit         Total
-     (us$) ------
PPS          250           A2TE             485        120,OOo
PPM        1,340           AITC             275        370,000
PPL        3,640           AITC             275      1,000,000
Existing Provincial and
District Supervisory Staff                L.S.       295,000
TOTAL       1,785, 000
2.  Training Cost Build-up
Grade                         FY77    FY78    FY79    FY80    FY81       Total
PPS                 N0          50      50       75      75      -         250
us$ to00      25       25      35      35      -         120
PPM                 N0         140      4oo     400      400     -        1, 340
US$ 'ooo      40      110     110      110     -          370
PPL                 NO         640   1,000   1,000   1,000       -       3,640
US$ '000     175      275     275      275     -        1, 000
Superv. Staff    us$ '000       40       85      85       85     -         295
TOTAL        US$ '000    280       495      505     505      -       1 ,785



ANNEX 5
Table 6
INDONESIA
NATIONAL FOOD CROPS EXTENSION PROJECT
Expected Price Increases
FY77    FY78    FY79    FY80    FY81        TOTAL
Civil Works
Costs                       US$ '000      385   1,100   1,070       970     205      3,730
Annual Inflation Rate           e          13       12      12       10       10
Expected Price Increases  US$ '000         25      220     365      470      130     1,210
Land Acquisition
Costs                       US$ '000      130     615      615      615     185      2,160
Annual Inflation Rate           %          13       12      12       10       10
Expected Price Increases  US$ '000         10      120     210      300      120       760
Vehicles, Equipment & Furniture
Costs                       US$ '000   1,115   3,345   3,340   3,340          -     11,140
Annual Inflation Rate           %           9        8       8        7       -
Expected Price Increases  US$ '000         50      450     750   1,050        -      2,300
Consultants & Training
Consultants                 US$ '000      100      150     150      150       50       600
Overseas Training               "         100      150     150      150       50       600
In-service  Training            "         280     495      505      505       -      1,785
Total                   "        480      795      805     805      100      2,985
Annual Inflation Rate           %           9        8       8        7        7
Expected Price Increases  US$ '000         20      105     180      255       45       605
Incremental Operating Costs
Costs                       US$ '000       60     370   1,220   2,015   2,705        6,370
Annual Inflation Rate           %          13       12      12       10       10
Expected Price Increases  US$ '000          5       75     420      895   1,725      3,210
Incremental Salaries
Costs                       US$ '000      775   1,760   1,985   1,770        770     7,060
Annual Inflation Rate       US  %          10       10      10       10       10
Expected Price increases  US$ '000         40      270     540      705     415      1,970
TOTAL PRICE INCREASES       us$ '000      150   1,240   2_465   3,765   2,435    10,055



ANNEX 6
Table 1
IliONESTh
NATIONAL F.OOD CROPS EXTENSION PROJECT
Vehicles and Euipment Li.sts
Ttem                                  Quantity      Unit Cost       Total Cost
A.  V,ehicles
* Bicycles                              6,100             75            460
* MIotorcycles (125-150 cc)              3,115           750          2,34O
L ?ou-    eel- rive Veh icles (s sw.b )   417          7,000          2,920
* Four-lfeel-Drive Vehicles (l.w.b,)         3        10,000             30
* Mobile Audio-Visual Units                 12        15,000            180
. Two--Rheel Trailers                     145         1, O(X)           145
Spare Parts (15% )                                                    925
Sb -To tal                                                     7,°000
B.  Equipnent ano FurnIture for [EC!s
* Movie Projectors                        143          2,600            372
* Side Projectors                         540            250            135
* Cameras                                  152           180              27
Megaphones                              540             60             32
* Portable Generators                      672         2,000          li3U
* Typewriters                              540           650            351
* pH Meters                                152           250             38
* Moisture Meters                         152          1,000            152
Pressure Larmps                       1>600             14             23
Handbooks                              L.S.            -               50
Maintenance Tools                      L.S.            -               80
Extens ion Equ ipment                  L.S,            -              290
Plant Protection Ecu iprent            L.SO            -              300
- Fu rniture                             L.S.           -               350
Miscellaneous                          L.S.            -               56
Sub - cta1                                                     36
Tot-l                                                         10,60O
Note:  Ttems marked * subject to ICB, ur. arked itens subject
to (Loeal Competitive BidaTng.



INDONESIA
NATIONAL FOOD CROPS EXTENSION PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Expenditures
IBRD Financial Year
FY77    FY78    FY79    FY80    FY81    TOTAL
----------------- (US$    1000)
Capital Costs
Land Acquisition                          130      615     615      615     185    2,160
Civi:L Works                              335      940     910      845     170    3,200
Vehicles, Equipment &  Furniture        1,060   3,180   3,180   3,180        -    10,600
Physical contingencies                    105      325     320      290      30    1,070
Training & Consulting Services
Overseas Training                         100      150     150      150      50       600
In-service Training                       280      495     505      505      -      1,785
Consultants                               100      150     150      150      50       600
Incremental Operating Costs
O&N Buildings, Vehicles & Equipment        -        70     280      490     700    1,540
Extension Activities                       -       140     700   1,245   1,745    3,830
Salaries                                  775   1,760   1,985   1,770       770    7,060
DGFC Admin. Overheads                      60      160     240      280     260    1,000
Expected Price Increases                  150   1,240   2,465   3,765   2,435   10,055
Total Extension Project Cost            3,095   9,225  11,500  13,285   6,395   43,500
IRRI Contract (Cr. 246-IND)                -       140     160      160     240       700
TOTAL COST                        3,095   9,365  11,660  13,445   6,635   44,200                 ( 



ANNEX 7
Tabl e 
INIDCTESIA
NATIONAL FOOD CROPS EXTENSION PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
T73RD Fiscal Year and Semester                         Accumlated Disbu-rsemerets
U S I ~11 T  cn
1977
l=st                                                       0.4
2nd                                                        1 0
1978
lst                                                         3.1
2nd                                                          3
1979
lst                                                        9.4
2nd                                                       112.1
1980
lst                                                       15.3
2nd                                                      717.8
1981
lst                                                       19.8
2nd                                                       21.2
1982
Ist                                                       Ž1 8
2nd                                                       22.0



ANNEX 7
Ta le 3
INDONESIA
NATIONIAL FOOD CROPS EXTENSION PRCJECT
Proposed Allocation of Proceeds of Loan
Cost              Proposed
Total     Foreign        Loan
-(US$ Mllion)-
I. Civil Works
Construction of REC's 1/                     3.10        0.82
Construction of HQ 1/                        0.10        0.03      -
Expected Price Increases 2/                  1.21        0.32
Sub-total                              4.41       1 =7           3.7
Disbursement will be 85% of total expenditure.
TT.  Vehicles and Equipment 3/                     10.60        9.18
Expected Price Increases 2/                  2.30        1.99
Sub-total                             12.90      11.17          12.9
Disbursement will be 100% of foreign expenditure for directly imported
equlipment, 95% of expenditure (ex-factory) for locally manufactured
equipment and 65% of 'total expenditure for imported equipment procured
locally. Disbursement will be at 40% of total expenditure for 20 vehicles
purchased locally for project start-up.
IIT.  Training & Consultants 4/                       2.98       1.00
Expected Price Increases 2/                  0.61        0.20
Sub-total                              3-59         =2           3.6
Disbursement will be 100% of total expenditure.
IV.  IRRI Contract (Credit 246-IND)                 0.70        0.70          0.7
Disbursement will be 100% of foreign expenditure.
V. Unallocated
PhysicalContingencies 5/                     1.07        0.58          1.1
(a - Land Acquisitionrf                   (2.16)       -
(b - Incremental Operating Costs)        (13-43)     (0.70)
(Expected Price Increases a and b)        (5.94)     (0.26)
TOTAL                                 44.20      15.78          22.0
1/ Annex 5, Table 2.
2/ Annex 5, Table 6.
3/ Annex 6, Table 1.
! Annex 5, Tables 4 and 5.
;/ Annex 5, Table 2.



ANNEX 8
Table 1
INDONESIA
NATIONAL FOOD CROPS EXTElNSICN PROJECT
Schedule of Events
Action                                    Date
1 . Administration
Appointment of Project Director                           July, 1976
Appointment of the Provincial Food Crops Extension
Officers for the nine provinces                         July, 1976
Submission to Bank of proposal for coordinating
extension activities under the project with those
of the other Directorates and Agencies                  July, 1977
2. Consulting Services
Appointment of Extension Specialist                       January, 1977
3. Construction of 1st Batch of REC?s'
Appointment of Architects                                 September, 1976
Completion of Design and Site Plan                        December, 1976
Award of Contracts                                        March, 1977
Completion of Construction                               September, 1977
4. Procurement of Furniture. E;quipment & Vehicles"
Advertisement of Bids                                     September, 1976
Award of Contract                                         December, 1976
Receipt of Goods                                          June, 1977
/ Fo:r;ty REC's, of which 20 rehabilitated and 20 newly built.
For 40 RE's.



INDONESIA
NATIONAL FOOD CROPS EXTENSION PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
CALENDAR YEARS
ITEM 
ITEM     1976                1977                                    1978                                     1979                                     1980                                     1981
CIVIL WORKS
REC Construction (Nol)                                                                                       0 30
REC Rehabilitation  (Nol                                                            "      _  _-               '      i5
Project Headquarters Construction
PROCUREMENT /
Fquip-o~t & Farnituie (No RECs~)                                           ,4 ~                                        1o Z1 5                                                                           4                                0
Transport (% of Total)                                                               7        , X                                                                  7      ,  .
STAPF APPOINTMENTS
STAFF~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.. . . . .  A PPDINTMENTS.                                         ..    ...    .................    ...  .  .........   . ...                           ......... . .   ..... .
PPL    (Nol  .......   ... ,  ,1onO ...... i ............. ....... .. ......~~~~~~...                         ... ...                               .. ... ... ... ... ...
PPL (No)                                          :jj;ijji)jjj": io........1000....                                                                                                 64     l         - ::::; : .
..  ,    ,, .   . ...........   ..........                                                :       
PPM  (No)                                                      140
PPS (N.)                                                                                                                                     3  >
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Fotension Conscitans 
Firm  of Architelts
Short Ters Consultants
World Bank-15765(RI






INDONESIA
NATIONAL FOOD CROPS EXTENSION PROJECT
Ministry of Agriculture
Organization/
MINISTER
INSPECTORATE                                                                          EXER STAFF 
G   GENERAL       F       G         F       G         FOR        ANAMA            T
SECRETARIAT
GENERAL
DiRECTORATE      DIRECTORATE |     DIRECTORATE       DIRECTORATE        DIRECTORATE       AGENCY FOR        AGENCY FOR               2
GENERAL FOR      GENERAL FOR |     GENERAL FOR       GENERAL FOR        GENIMAL            TREUATIONIN      RESEARCH &           IA/
FOOD CROPS      ESTATE CROPS        FORESTRY          FISHERIES         HUSBANDRY        & EXTENSION       DEVELOPMENT       SECRETARIAT
1-    I             -   I      ~~~~- --  -Im  Ii i
PROVINCIAL ~ ~       ~      ROINIA
AGRICU LTURAL                        POICA
COORDINATOR  _  ___   _           RESPRESENTATIVES
OF THE
MINISTER OF AGRICULTURE
Effective April 1, 1975
2/ The Director General Food Crops is currently also Head of the BIMAS Secretariat
World Bank-9395(2R)






INDONESIA
NATIONAL FOOD CROPS EXTENSION PROJECT
ORGANIZATION OF DIRECTORATE GENERAL FOOD CROPS
NATIONAL LEVEL
Director General 
Food  roplu
|   §   [   |    l         t        |        g         I  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Directorate
Directorate                 Directorate                 D iect ate                 Agricultural
Pianning                   Economnics                  Producton                   Techniques
r~~~7              -   r_ -  -  - --  -  -  -  -  -~ -  -  -                      -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -
PROVINCIAL LEVEL
|Inspector for
Agriculture
uraBureau                                               Bureau                      Sureau                    Agrclua
Extension                    Planning                   Economics                   Production                  Techniques
REGENCY LEVEL
Regency-
Agricultural
Officer
-…                                                                                     ____________________
DISTRICT LEVEL
Dist ict
AgriculItural
OffEicer
Extension                    Planning                      and                     Production-                 Agricultural
Section                     Section                    Statistics                   Section                   Techniques
Setio                                                 Section
SUB-DISTRICT LEVEL
: Wh|re R c o eiSub-District   |
the Provincial Inspector for Agriculture.                                                                          World Bunkricultura
*-|-|      ~~Officer
l    l    (~~Mantri)
Village Unit 
| Exten sio n Worker|
(PPL)            I
1/Where Regencies do not exist, the District Agricultural Officer is directly responsible to
the Provincial Inspector for Agriculture.                                                                                                WrdBn-55






INDONESIA
NATIONAL FOOD CROPS EXTENSION PROJECT
Project Organization
Minister tor                                                                                 n sMer
Home Affairs                                                                               Agricultu
y forB IMAS
S   |   [enc[T,an               |      Director General         /Agency forBI
2   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~Eucation, Trainin                                   FodCosResearch &Dietr
O                                    xeso                                   Food Crops                      Secreteriat                                       General
F- ~ ~ ~~~-,~Extension                                                                                                 L DevelopmentGeel
<                  g A                                _                         '    r . .                                                   -_ i_'_-_
a .....................  ..  .... .. .............  ................... .......                                               >O
a c~ 0
j     Extension Project |                           .                                                                O           c
Advisory Working                                                                                                n        -
Group
Project
Director
T             ~~~Governor                           iLEGEND:
LU                                                        Prov ncial          For                                              Administrative Responsibility
t                                                                                                                                  -  - |- rvnilIspco   o      Technical Responsibility
Z                                                    *                 Agriculture                                                ..... Coordination
I-I__Advisory
t                  ~~~~~~ir- -- -- - - - - -- -     
a-                                                                                                                            * ~~~~~4Ex-officio Head
I |                      | Extension Bureau | _                                                                 Province BIMAS Committee
Eei   B e                                                                     * *    Ex-officio Head
District BIMAS Committee
District Head   |                                                                                                    .|  . I  * * * Ex-officio Head
IBupatil                              I      I l     l                                                                     Sub-District BIMAS Committee
|                             |        I    |    District Agricultural
|r|  |    L    Officer *
o~~~~~~i - r-- - -- -- --_ -                              ___
t,                     |   j                        |Extension Section
o                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~Head
Rural Extension
I       1   *                         | ~~~~~~~~~Centre (REC)
Sub-District Head
r.r           (Camat)
|   |  Village Head _ -                      I
u        |  i~Lura11l                      I                   -
J                                                        P
>                                             Contact Farmer -Farmer Group
FaW mers
World Bank--16010






IBRD 1081 I
ATHAILAND          '
PHILIPPiNES                              ~NATIONAL FOOD CROPS
>yV ~ ~ ouh                  hnafV                    RUE                                                                                                     EXTENSION PROJECT
v U' NQ~APORE                                                                                                       /
V,~~j  000  0'i   V  I  K  A                  N/C    AI,,N  ~~~'    ,7-jiiI~ix]~~~"~ijo7                         /71HALMAHERA                  P a c//ic               Ocae  a n              a
S  -                   V,UV~~~~~V XI                   -o                          ~'                             SQN
-o  '-VANOKA                            1,                                           xIA         
-A~~~~TRA                   1         o        o                  <~~~~~~~~1-   XX  SULAWESI                                                                      -~
RE'  ~K-~Ž2  o~            BELITUNG                              2                       IS, /  55t                                                                       0'uX
3                                                                                                                                                                                <1
J A V A ~  ~     1E  S, ~ U 
/ndian              Rx~~~~os~B. B    OS                 I   V/USA ~~-TENVGGAR'A    EAST A/USA -TENOGAE?A                         '                                           -
o cao a n 
19  AU   0   0   0            50BO         "\\00  0 INO 1000UOROIUO                                              UB            
US   0                                                    SOUO,SIRIS ER0TABM t                                     /R
100'                      lOS                        110'                      Its-                      120'                       125'                       1300'3'                         0RTRERAEOE 






INDEX OF IBRD-10811R     4.  Sarolangun Bangko (Bangkol            1.  Semarang (Semarang)                 17.  Lumajang (Lumajang)                    3.  Sambas ISingkawang)                          15.  Majene (Marene)
INDEX OF IBRD-1081 IR             5.  Tanjung Jabung IKmala Tungkal)        2.  Kendal (Semarang)                   18.  Pasuruan (Pasuruan)                    4.   Ketapang (Ketapang)                         16.  Polewali Mamasa (Polewali)
KOTAMADYA                           3.  Pekalongan                           19.  Probolingga (Probolinggo)              5.  Sintang (Singtang)                          17.  Tana Toraja IMakale)
I   SPECIAL REGION OF ACEH               6   Jambi                                4   Batang                               20   Pan grgkon (Panarokanl                 6.  Kapuas Hoa   (Pntasibaa)                    18.  Luwu (Palopo)
KABOPATEN                                                                     5   Pemalang (Pemalangl                 21.  Bondowoso (Bondowoso)                       KOTAMADYA                                  19   Mamuju (Mamuiu)
1.  Aceh Besar (Banda Aceh)              VI PROVINCE OF SOUTH SUMATRA   6   TegaI ITegal)                                  22.  Jember (Jember                         7.   Pontianak                                  20.  Enrekang (Enrekang)
2.  Aceh Barat (Meulaboh)                     KABUPATEN                            7.  Bresbes (Bresbes)                   23.  Bany.wangi (Banyuwang.)                                                                      KOTAMADYA
3.  Aceh Selatan (Tapaktuan)             1   Musi Banyuasin ISekayu)               8   Clacep ICilacap)                    24.  Bangkalan IBangkalan)                                                                  21 K ParePare
4   Aceh Tengah ITakengonl               2.  Musi Rawac (lubuklinggau)             9.  Bannumas (Purwokerto)               25.  Sampang (Sampang)                    XVII PROVINCE OF CENTRAL KALIMANTAN  22.  Ujung Pandang
5.  Aceh Timu, ILangsa)                  3.   Rejang Lebong (Curup)               10.  Purbol nggo IPurbolinggo)           26.  Pamnekasan (Pamekasan)                      KABUPATEN
6.  Aceh Utara (Lhoksumawe)              4.  Belitung (Tanjung Pandang)           11.  Banjamngara (Banjarnegara)          27.  Sumenep (Sumenep)                      1     AoUPArE r
7     4id, ISigh)                        5.  Lahat (Lahat)                        12   Kebumen (Kabumen)                   28.  Nganj(k INganiuk                      21.  BaKito Utar(a    uTeweh)                   XXII  PROVINCE OF SOUTH-EAST
KOTAMADYA                           6.  Muara Enim (Muara Enim)               13.  Wonosobe (Wonosobo)                 29.  Ma,etan (Magetan)                     3.   Kotawaringing Timur (Sampl)                      SULAWESI KABUPATEN
5.  Banda Aech                           7.  Ogan Komering Ulu (Baturaja)          14.  Temanggung (Temaeggung                   KOTAMADYA                             4.  Kotawaringin Baratr (Pangkalanbn)            1.  Kendari (Kendari)
8.  Ogan Komering llir (Kaynogeng)       15.  Magelang (Magelang)                 30   Kedri                                 5.  Barto Selatan (Buntok)                       2.   Kolaka (Kolaka)
rI  PROVINCE OF NORTH SUMATRA  9.  Bangka IPangkalpinang)                         16   Purworejo IPurworejo)               31  BSitar (Shear)                               KOTAMADYA                                   3.  Buton (Bau-Bau)
KABUPATEN                                KOTAMADYA                            17.  Salnarga (Salatiga)                 32.  Malang                                B.  Palaegk.raya                                 4.  Muna (Raha)
1   Asahan (Tanjungbalai)                10.  Pangkalpinang                       18.  Demak (Demak)                       33   Probolinggo
2.  Danri lS,dikalang)                   11.  Palembang                            19.  Jepara (Jepara)                    34.  Paouruan
3.  Karo (Kabanjahe)                                                              20.  Kudus (Kudus)                       35.  Mojokerto                             XVIII PROVINCE OF SOUTH KALIMANTAN    XXIII PROVINCE OF NORTH SULAWESI
4.  Langkat (Binjai)                     VII PROVINCE OF BENGKULU                  21   Pat (Pat8                           36.  Surabaya                                   KASUPATEN                                        KABUPATEN
5.  Labuhan Batu (Rantau PraPat)              KABUPATEN                           22   Rembang (Rembang)                   37.  Madiun                                 1.  Banto Kuala (Martabahan)                     1.  Gorontalo (Isimu)
6.  Somelungun (Pematang Siantarj         1.  Bengkulu Utara                      23.  Grobogan (Grobogan)
7.  Tapanuli Utar2Seaatn                                                24TBaoou(Bora)2.  Baniar (Martapora)                                                                                                 2.  Balaang Mangandow (Kotamobagus)
B.  Tapanuli Selatan (Pardng Sidempoan) 2   Bengkulu Selatan                      24.  Blora Mora\                         Xil  PROVINCE OF BALI                      3.  Hulu Sungai Selatan (Kandangan)              3.  Minahasa (Tondano)
9.  Topanuol Tengah (Sibolgae            3.  Rejeng Lebong                        25.  Srager (Sragen)                           KABUPATEN                             4.  Kotabaru (Kotabarun                               KOTAMADYA
10.  Dela Serdaeg (Medan)                      KOTAMADYA                           26.  Byolali (Boyolali)                  1.  Buleleng (Singaraja)                   5.  Hulu Sungai Tengah (Barabai)                 4.  Menado
11.  Nias (Gunong Sitoli                  4.  Bengkalu                             27.  Klnten (Klaten)                      2.  Jernbrana (Negara)                     S.  Hole Songai Utara (Amanta,)                 5.  Gorner;a
28.  Sukohario (Sekohaniol               3.  Tabanar (Tabanan)                                                                                              .-
KOTAMADYA                                       29.  Karanganyar (Kwanganya,)           ~~~~~~4 Badung (Denpasto')                   7.  Banjanmasin                               XXIV  PROVINCE OF MALUKU
12.  S,bolga                             Vill PROVINCE OF LAMPUNG                  30.  Wonogiri (Wo,nogir)                  5.   angi San                                                                                     AG K UPATEN
13.  Medan                                     KABUPATEN                                 KOTAMADYA                          B.  G,.nyar (Gianyar)                                                                            KaBuATen
14.  Pematang Siantar                     1.  Lampung Utara (Kota Bumd             31.  Semarang                             7   Klungkung (Klugkung)                  XIX  PROVINCE O  EAST KALIMANTAN                 2.  Maluke Tenggara (Tals)
15.  Tanjung Ba)ei                        2.  Lampung Tengah (Metro)               32   Pekalonga                                                                                                                            Maleku Tenggara (Muael
15.                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~32.  Pclkalonganl   B.  Karangasem (Karargaees.)                    KABUPATEN                                  3.  MalaIse Utara (Terntere)
16.  B-niai                               3.   Lampung Selatan (Teluk Betng)       33.  Tega)                                                                               B         (TEN    Sn                             MkuaMaDeA
17.  Tebang Tingg,                             KOTAMADYA                           34.  Magelang                                                                        1.  Bulongan (Tanjung Selorl                         KOTAMADYA
4.  Tanjung Karnng                      35.  Salat ga                            XIV  PROVINCE OF WEST                       2.  Bereau (Tanjung Redep)                      4.  Ambon
111 PROVINCE OF WEST SUMATRA                                                      36.  Surakanta                                NUSA-TENGGARA  KABUPATEN              3.   Kutai (Tenggarong)
KABUPATEN                           IX   PROVINCE OF WEST JAVA                                                         1.  Lombok Barat (Mataram)                 4.  Pasir (Tanahgrogot)                         XXV PROVINCE OF WEST IRIAN
1.  Pasaman (Lubuksikaping)                   KABUPATEN                           XI SPECIAL REGION OF JOGJAKARTA  2.  Lombok Tengah (Praya)                                KOTAMADYA                                       KABUPATEN
2   Lima Puluh Kota (Payakumbuh)          1.  Serang (Serang)                        KABUPATEN                              3.  Lombok Timer (Selong)                  5.  Balikpapan                                  1.  Teluk Cenderawasih (Biak)
3   Agam (Bukittingg) k                  2.  Tanggerang (Tanggerang)               1.  Sleman (Sleman)                     4.  Sumabwa (Sumabwa Besar)                                                                 2.  Jayapura (Jayapura)
4.  T.ah D.ar (Bwsangar        a   Bekasi (Bks)2                              uo   rg  Wt05.  Dompe (Dompe)                                                 XX  PROVINCE OF CENTRAL SULAWESI                 3.  Jayawijaga Timer (Wamenea
5.  Sawah Lunto (Sijunjung               4   Ciamis (Ciamis)                       3,  Bantul (Bantel)                     5.  Rime (Raba)                                 KABUPATE                                    3.  Jayawijaya Barer (Warera)
6.  Padang Pariaman IPariaman)           5   Karawang (Karawang)                   4.  Gunung Kidul (Wonosari)                                                             KBoPlTEN                                    5   F ayak (akak)
7.  Pasisir Selatan (Painan)             6.  Purwakarta IPurwakarta)                   KOTAMADYA                                                                        .   u         P 1                              S.  Makfak  (Makw
S.  Solok ISolok)                        7.  Indramayu                             5                                       XV PROVINCE OF EAST                         2.  Donggala (Palu)                             6.   Manokwaai (Manokwari)
KOTAMADYA                           8.  CLrebon (CIrebon)                      -                                           NUSA-TENGGARA   KABUPATr.N             3.  Pose (0Poso                                 7.  Meraeke (Merauke)
9.  Padang                               9.  Koniegan (Koningani)                                                                                                     4      ag    LwkS                                      ae   aoe  Sri
10   Padang Paniang                      10.  MaKalengke (KMeuenngka)              XIl  PROVINCE OF EAST JAVA                1.  Sumba Barne (Waikabubak)                                                              9   Sorong (Sorong)
11   Bokittinggi                         11   S medang (Sumedang)                       KABUPATEN                            2 Sumba Timur IWaingapu)                  XXI PROVINCE OF SOUTH SULAWESI
12   Payakumbuh                          12.  Sbang                                I   Surabaya (Surabaya)                   3.  Manggarai (Ruteng)                          KABUPATEN                               XXVI SPECIAL REGION OF JAKARTA
13   Sawah Lunto                         13.  Bogor (Bogor)                        2.  Gresik IGresik)                      4.  Ngada (Bajawa)                          1.  Pangkajene dan Kepulauan IPangkajene)           WILAYAH
IV   PROVINCE OF RIAU                    14.  Lebak ILebak)                        3.  Ldmongan (Lamongan)                  5.  Endeh (Endeh)                           2.  Maros (Maros)                              1.  Jakarta Barat
KVPRUPATNCE                                                                                                            6. Rika 15.  Pandaigelang IPanda(gelang)  4.  Tuban ITuban)  6.  Sika (Memumere)  3.  Goa (Sungguminasa)  2.  Jakarta Pusat
KABUPATEN                           16.  Sekabumi (Sukabumi)                 5.  Mojokerto (Mojokerto)                 7.  Flores Timer (Larantuka)               4.  Takalar Takala)                            3.  Jakarta Selatan
2.  Bengkalis (Bengkalr)                17.  Canjur iC,anjuO                      6.  Jambdng IJombang)                     8.  Aloe (Kalabail)                        5.  Jeneponto (Jenep3to)                       4.  Jakarta Tlmur
2.  IndKagir, (Rengatin)                 189 Randeeg (Bndng)                      7               )Bo(nnegoea)                   Bela (Atambua)                        6.  Bantaeng (Bantaeng)                        5.  Jakarta Utara
3.  Kampae  BanRgkianjg)                19.  Gamue (Gearut)8   Ngawi (Ngowi)                                               10.  Timar Tengph Utara (Kefamenoeeu)       7   Bulukumba (Bulukumba)                           KOTAMADYA
4.  KI,pula.an Riau (Taniun9 Plna       20.  Tasikmalaya (Tasikmalaya)            9.  Madien (Madieri                      it   Timor Tengah Selatan (Soe)             8.  Sinia, (Sunjai)                            6.  Jakarta Barat
KOTAMADYA                                KOTAMADYA                          10.  Kediri (Kediril                      12   Kupeng                                 9.  Bone (Watampone)                           7.  Jakarta Pusat
5.  Pakanbaru                           21.  Bandung                             11.  Pon-orgo (posarag)o                                                             10.  Barre (Barru)                              8.  Jakarta Selatan
5V PekeINC  OFJAMTE                     22.    eng9                              12.  Pacitar, (Paiinln                    XVI PROVINCE OF WEST KALIM/ANTAN  11.  Soppeng (Watamnoppeng)                              9   JakartaTimer
KABUPATEN                           23.  Cirbobn                             13.  Tronggolek (Trenggalek)                  KABUPATEN                             12   Wajo (SingSa,g)                            0 JartUaa
1     BSarng Ho. Batng Her,)                                                     14.  Tulungageng (Tulungagung)             1.  Ponuanak (Menpawah)                   13.  Sidenreng-Rappang (Pangkajene.Sidenreng)
2,  Surgo Tebo (Muara Bungo)             X   PROVINCe OF CENTRAL JAVA   Sb.  Blitgr (Blitara
3.  Ke,inci (Sungai Penuh)                    KABUPATEN                          1S.  Malng (Melong)                        2.  Snggau (Snggaul                       14.  Pirang (Pinrang)



