CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1267 IND
LOAN AGREEMENT
(National Food Crops Extension Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated June 4, 1976


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 4, 1976, between REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RE-
CONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).


﻿- 2 -
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guar-
antee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with the same
force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein (said
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of
the Bank being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the Gen-
eral Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "MOA" means the Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture;
(b) "DGFCA" means the Directorate General of Food Crops
Agriculture of the MOA;
(c) "ARD" means the Agricultural Research and Development
Agency of the MOA;
(d) "BIMAS Program" means the Borrower's program (Bimbingan
Masal), administered through the BIMAS Secretariat, for raising
food crop production and farm income by supplying credit and cash
inputs at subsidized prices, established pursuant to Presidential
Decree No. 95/1969 of the Borrower;


﻿- 3 -
(e) "BIMAS Secretariat" means the executive body of the
BIMAS Program at the national level;
(f) "Project Provinces" means the Borrower's Provinces of
West Java, Central Java, East Java, Jogjakarta, North Sumatera,
West Sumatera, South Sumatera, South Sulawesi and South Kalimantan,
and shall include any other Provinces which the Bank may agree
from time to time to include in the Project;
(g) "Project Director" means the position referred to in
Section 3.02 of this Agreement;
(h) "REC" means a rural extension center (Balai Penyuluhan
Pertanian (BPP)) of the Borrower (previously known as Balai
Pendidikan Masyarakat Desa (BPMD)), established and operating in
accordance with Joint Decree of the Borrower's Minister of Agri-
culture and Minister of Home Affairs, respectively, Nos. 233/Kpts/
Hm/4/1976 and 76/1976, dated April 9, 1976;
(i) "PPS" means a university graduated extension worker or
equivalent, employed at least at salary scale III/a under the
Civil Service Law, and specialized in any of the following sub-
ects: agronomy; agro-economy; plant protection; and soil fertility;
(j) "PPM" means an academy graduated extension worker or
equivalent, employed at least at salary scale II/b under the
Civil Service Law; PPMs normally will either have an academy
degree with at least two years practical experience and specialized


﻿training, or be graduates of a Senior Agricultural High School
with at least six years' practical experience and specialized
training;
(k) "PPL" means a field extension worksr a, the Village
Unit level, employed at least at salary scale II/a under the
Civil Service Law; PPLs normally will be graduates of a Senior
Agricultural High School and will receive additional in-service
training;
(1) "Village Unit" means an agro-economic unit, provided
for in Presidential Instruction No. 4/1973 of the Borrower, including
about 600-1,000 hectares of rice fields;
(m) "Civil Service Law" means the 1968 Civil Service Law
of the Borrower; and
(n) "IRRI Contract" means the contract for technical assist-
ance dated December 28, 1972 between the Government of the Bor-
rower and the International Rice Research Institute, as amended on
March 3, 1975, entered into for purposes of Part C of the project
described in the Development Credit Agreement No. 246 IND (Seeds
Project) dated May 19, 1971 between the Borrower and the Interna-
tional Development Association, as such contract may be further
amended from time to time with the approval of the Association.


﻿-5-
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or referred
to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty-two million
dollars ($22,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for expendi-
tures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect
of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Proj-
ect and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
goods and works for the Project to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan, shall be procured in accordance with the provisions
of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1982 or
such later date as the Batik shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.


﻿- 6 -
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
eight and one-half per cent (8-1/2%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on February 15 and August 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.


﻿- 7 -
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3,0l. (a) The Borrower shall carry out Parts A through
D of the Project through DGFCA and Part E of the Project through
ARD, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with ap-
propriate administrative, agricultural, engineering, financial,
training and extension practices, and shall provide, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources re-
quired for the purpose.
(b) Without limitation or restriction upon the obligations
of the Borrower under paragraph (a) of this Section 3.01, the
Borrower shall ensure (i) that adequate provision is made in the
annual budgets for DGFCA, the BIMAS Secretariat and each of the
Project Provinces, to covet respectively the incremental head
office operating costs of DGFCA and the BIMAS Secretariat, and
the incremental operating costs to the Project Provinces, arising
in connection with the implementation of Parts A through D of
the Project, and (ii) that sufficient liquid funds to cover bud-
geted expenditures, estimated to be made for Parts A through D
of the Project during each quarter, are made available to the
DGFCA, the BIMAS Secretariat and the Project Provinces, respec-
tively.. by the fifteenth day of such quarter.
Section 3.02. (a) Except as the Borrower and the Bank shall
otherwise mutually agree, the Borrower shall, for purposes of
carrying out Parts A through D of the Project and until their


﻿- 8 -
completion, establish and maintain within DGFCA, the position of
Project Director, who shall report directly to the Director Gen-
eral for Food Crops Agriculture. The Project Director shall be
responsible, subject to the overall supervision of the Director
General for Food Crops Agriculture and the BIMAS Secretariat,
inter alia, for handling the day-to-day administration, control
and evaluation of extension activities under Parts A through D
of the Project, in close cooperation with the other directorates
or agencies of MOA involved in extension-related activities.
(b) The Borrower shall, before appointing any person to the
position of Project Director, inform the Bank of the name, quali-
fications and experience of the person being considered for such
appointment, and shall afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity
to exchange views with the Borrower on the qualifications and
experience of such person.
Section 3.03. Except as the Borrower and the Bank shall other-
wise mutually agree, the Borrower shall employ within DGFCA con-
sultants/specialists whose qualifications, experience and terms
and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank,
as follows:
(i) a firm of architects to assist the Project Direc-
tor in the preparation of construction and site
plans for the RECs included under Part D of the
Project, the preparation of tender documents and
annual construction schedules, and the supervision
of construction;


﻿-9 -
(ii) within six months of the date of this Agreement,
an extension specialist to assist in all aspects
of planning and implementation of Parts A through
D of the Project; and
(iii) short-term consultants to assist in implementing
the staff training program included under Part B
of the Project.
Section 3.04. Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall other-
wise mutually agree, the Borrower shall (a) prepare and submit to
the Bank for comments, within one year after the date of this
Agreement, a proposal outlining arrangements for coordinating
agricultural extension activities under the Project with those
of the directorates of MOA other than DGFCA; and (b) ensure that
agricultural extension activities in relation to future projects
relating to food crops, will be carried out substantially in ac-
cordance with the extension methodology developed under the Proj-
ect.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall ensure that suitably quali-
fied staff in sufficient numbers are appointed to all supervisory
and extension positions relating to the Project.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the
place of use or installation, and for such insurance any indem-
nity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower
to replace or repair such goods.


﻿- 10 -
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.07. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, ra-
ports, contract documents and construction and procurement sched-
ules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof or
additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to
record the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof)
and to identify the goods, works and services financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan, and to disclose the use thereof in the
Project; (ii) shall enable the Bank's accredited representatives
to visit the facilities and construction sites included in the
Project and to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall
furnish to the Bank all such information as the Bank shall rea-
sonably request concerning the Project, the expenditure of the
proceeds of the Loan and the goods, works and services financed
out of such proceeds.
(c) The accounts of DGFCA and the BIMAS Secretariat, in
respect of Parts A through D of the Project, and of ARD in re-
spect of Part E of the Project, which are to be kept pursuant
to the provisions of Section 4.02 of this Agreement, shall be
audited each fiscal year in accordance with appropriate auditing


﻿- 11 -
principles consistently applied by independent auditors accept-
able to the Bank, and as soon as available, but in any case not
later than six months after the end of each such year, the Bank
shall be furnished with certified copies of such accounts for
such year as so audited and the report of such audit by such au-
ditors of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have
reasonably requested.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when
needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be
required for the construction and operation of the facilities in-
cluded in the Project.
Section 3.09. Except as the Borrower and the Bank shall other-
wise mutually agree, the Borrower shall prepare and submit to the
Bank, annually, proposed annual programs for training and fellow-
ships to be carried out under Part B of the Project, and shall
carry out such annual programs as are mutually agreed between
the Borrower and the Bank.


﻿- 12 -
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, specific security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority over
its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of foreign
exchange held under the control or for the benefit of such member.
To that end, if any lien shall be created on any public assets (as
hereinafter defined), as security for any external debt, which will
or might result in a priority for the benefit of the creditor of
such external debt in the allocation, realization or distribution
of foreign exchange, such lien shall, unless the Bank shall other-
wise agree, ipso facto and at no cost to the Bank, equally and
ratably secure the principal of, and interest and other charges on,
the Loan, and the Borrower, in creating or permitting the creation
of such lien, shall make express provision to that effect; provided,
however, that, if for any constitutional or other legal reason
such provision cannot be made with respect to any lien created on
assets of any of its political or administrative subdivisions, the
Borrower shall promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the prin-
cipal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan by an equi-
valent lien on other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property; and
(ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking transactions
and securing a debt maturing not more than one year after its date.


﻿- 13 -
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative subdi-
vision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or oper-
ating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any such
subdivision, including gold and other foreign exchange assets held
by any institution performing the functions of a central bank or
exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for the Borrower.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with consis-
tently maintained sound accounting practices the operations, re-
sources and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of the depart-
ments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the
Project or any part thereof.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall at all times cause all phys-
ical facilities and equipment provided under the Project to be
operated and maintained, and from time to time, promptly as needed,
all necessary repairs and renewals thereof to be made, all in ac-
cordance with sound engineering and financial practices.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall at all times ensure the pro-
vision of adequate funds, facilities and other resources to main-
tain in the Project Provinces the expanded level of extension ser-
vices to be provided following the completion of the Project.


﻿- 14 -
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the Gen-
eral Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (k) thereof, namely, Presidential Decree
No. 45 of 1974, or Presidential Decree No. 95 of 1969, or the
Joint Decree referred to in Section 1.02 (h) of this Agreement,
or Decree No. 190/Kpts/Org/V/1975 of the Borrower's Minister of
Agriculture, shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, re-
pealed or waived in such a way as to materially and adversely
affect the carrying out of the Project, or the efficient manage-
ment or operation of DGFCA.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the Gen-
eral Conditions, the following additional event is specified,
namely, that any of the events specified in Section 5.01 of this
Agreement shall occur.


﻿- 15 -
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
(a) the Project Director has been appointed in accordance
with the provisions of Section 3.02 of this Agreement; and
(b) a firm of architects has been employed in accordance
with the provisions of Section 3.03 (i) of this Agreement.
Section 6.02. The date September 6, 1976 is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿- 16 -
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is de-
signated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Post Office Box 21
Jakarta, Indonesia
Cable address:
MINISTRY FINANCE
Jakarta
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿- 17 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
By /s/ Roesmin Nurjadin
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Bernard R. Bell
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be fi-
nanced out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of expendi-
tures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated            % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category              Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Civil Works               3,700,000          85%
(2) Equipment, furni-
ture, vehicles and
other materials          12,900,000
(a) directly im-                            100% of foreign
ported                                 expenditures
(b) locally pro-                            65%
cured but pre-
viously im-
ported
(c) locally manu-                           95% of local ex-
factured (ex-                          penditures
cept vehicles
included under
sub-category
(d))
(d) locally assembled                       40%
vehicles procured
following proced-
ures other than
international
competitive bid-
ding


﻿- 19 -
Amount of the
Loan Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category Dollar Equivalent) to be Financed
(3) Training of incre-         3,600,000          100%
mental Project
Staff and Consul-
tants' Services
(other than ex-
penditures included
under Category (4))
(4) Expenditures for             700,000          100% of foreign
Part E of the Proj-                          expenditures
ect
(5) Unallocated                1,100,000
TOTAL     22,000,000


﻿- 20 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compliance
with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan shall be
disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied by, or in the
territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or on the impor-
tation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to that end,
if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect of any
item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan decreases or
increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, increase or
decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable to such item
as required to be consistent with the aforementioned policy of the
Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made:
(a) in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to
the date of this Agreement; and


﻿- 21 -
(b) in respect of expenditures incurred under Category (4)
if such expenditures are eligible for financing from the proceeds
of Credit No. 246 IND referred to in Section 1.02 (n) of this
Agreement (or would be so eligible but for the occurrence of any
event which entitles the Association to suspend the right of the
Borrower to make further withdrawals from Credit No. 246 IND).
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or the
disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph 1
above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of the
Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to finance
the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Category, the
Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Cate-
gory, to the extent required to meet the estimated shortfall, pro-
ceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to another Category and
which in the opinion of the Bank are not needed to meet other ex-
penditures, and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the
estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then ap-
-1icable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals
such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder
have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the procure-
ment of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expenditures for
such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and
the Bank may, without in any way restricting or limiting any other
right, power or remedy of the Bank under the Loan Agreement, by
notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Loan as, in the
Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such expendi-
tures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out
of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 22 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is designed to strengthen agricultural extension
services for food crops in the nine Provinces of West Java, Central
Java, East Java, Jogjakarta, North Sumatera, West Sumatera, South
Sumatera, South Sulawesi and South Kalimantan (the Project Provinces).
The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:   Staffing Program
A staffing program to increase the number of trained extension
staff for food crops in the Project Provinces, over a period of
about four years, from about 4,140 to about 9,240, substantially
in accordance with Annex 1 to this Schedule, as such Annex may be
amended from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the
Bank.
Part B:   Training and Fellowships
An extensive training program for extension workers and farmers
in the Project Provinces including (i) in-service training for
incremental Project staff employed under Part A, and (ii) a program
of overseas fellowships.
Part C:   Extension Methodolog
Introduction and implementation of a sound extension method-
ology in the Project Provinces, with particular emphasis on con-
tinuous training of extension workers and regular farm visits.


﻿- 23 -
Part D:   Rural Extension Centers (RECs) and Project Headquarters
Facility
1.   Over a period of about five years, (i) renovation/rehabili-
tation of about 180 existing RECs and construction of about 350
new RECs in the Project Provinces, and (ii) the provision of (A)
furniture and equipment therefor, and (B) means of transportation
for the extension staff to be attached thereto.
2.   Construction of a headquarters facility for Project staff.
Part E:   IRRI Contract
Implementation of the IRRI Contract.
Parts A through D of the Project are expected to be completed
by June 30, 1981.
Part E of the Project is expected to be completed by May 31,
1982.


﻿- 24 -
ANNEX 1 TO SCHEDULE 2
Staffing Program for Part A of the Project
Present        Required       Increment
PPS                   180             300            120
PPM                    -            1,340          1,340
PPL                 3,960           7,600          3,640


﻿- 25 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (expressed in dollars)*
August 15, 1982                                      240,000
February 15, 1983                                    250,000
August 15, 1983                                      265,000
February 15, 1984                                   275,000
August 15, 1984                                      285,000
February 15, 1985                                   300,000
August 15, 1985                                     310,000
February 15, 1986                                   325,000
August 15, 1986                                      340,000
February 15, 1987                                   350,000
August 15, 1987                                      365,000
February 15, 1988                                   385,000
August 15, 1988                                      400,000
February 15, 1989                                    415,000
August 15, 1989                                     435,000
February 15, 1990                                    450,000
August 15, 1990                                     470,000
February 15, 1991                                   490,000
August 15, 1991                                      510,000
February 15, 1992                                    535,000
August 15, 1992                                     555,000
February 15, 1993                                   580,000
August 15, 1993                                     605,000
February 15, 1994                                   630,000
August 15, 1994                                     655,000
February 15, 1995                                    685,000
August 15, 1995                                     715,000
February 15, 1996                                   745,000
August 15, 1996                                      775,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 26 -
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                            (expressed in dollars)*
February 15, 1997                                    810,000
August 15, 1997                                      845,000
February 15, 1998                                    880,000
August 15, 1998                                      915,000
February 15, 1999                                    955,000
August 15, 1999                                      995,000
February 15, 2000                                  1,040,000
August 15, 2000                                     1,085,000
February 15, 2001                                  1,135,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 27 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b) of the
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                      Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                         1%
More than three years but not
more than six years
before maturity                     2-1/4%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                         4%
More than eleven years but not
more than sixteen years
before maturity                     5-1/2%
More than sixteen years but not
more than twenty-one years
before maturity                     7-1/4%
More than twenty-one years but
not more than twenty-three
years before maturity                   8%
More than twenty-three years
before maturity                     8-1/2%


﻿- 28 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as otherwise provided under Part B.2, contracts for
vehicles and equipment shall be awarded in accordance with pro-
cedures consistent with those set forth in Part A of the "Guide-
lines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in August 1975 (hereinafter called the
Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive bidding.
2.   Bid invitations shall, whenever feasible, be grouped together
in order to attract international competition.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for the civil works included in Part D of the
Project shall be awarded on the basis of competitive bidding
following local advertising and in accordance with the Borrower's
normal procurement procedures; provided, however, that minor
rehabilitation works included under Part D of the Project may be
carried out by force account.
2.   Contracts for extension equipment, plant protection equip-
ment, handbooks and small maintenance tools, and contracts for
furniture, may be awarded on the basis of competitive bidding
following local advertising and in accordance with the Borrower's


﻿- 29 -
normal procurement procedures, subject to an aggregate total amount
not exceeding the equivalent of $1,000,000; provided, however,
that any such items (other than furniture) estimated to cost less
than the equivalent of $10,000 may be procured without competitive
bidding on the basis of other reasonable and competitive procure-
ment procedures, including wherever possible the solicitation of
at least three price quotations, subject to an aggregate total
amount not exceeding the equivalent of $150,000. Up to twenty
4-wheel drive vehicles may be purchased locally after prudent
shopping, including wherever possible the solicitation of at least
three price quotations.
C.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for
Domestic Manufacturers
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods except those to be procured in accordance with
local procedures: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods, or the
ex-factory price for domestically-manufactured goods; (ii) customs
duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and sales and
similar taxes on domestically-supplied goods, shall be excluded;
and (iii) the cost to the Borrower of inland freight and other
expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to the place of
their use or installation shall be included.
2.   Goods manufactured in Indonesia may be granted a margin of
preference in accordance with, and subject to, the following pro-
visions:


﻿- 30 -
(a) All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the infor-
mation required to establish the eligibility of a bid for such
preference and the following methods and stages that will be fol-
lowed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b) After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Indo-
nesia if the bidder shall have established to the
satisfaction of the Borrower and the Bank that the
manufacturing cost of such goods includes a value
added in Indonesia equal to at least 20% of the
ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in Indonesia.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c) All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes on
goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest evalu-
ated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall then be
compared with each other, and if, as a result of this comparison,
a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected
for the award.


﻿- 31 -
(d) If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c)
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids shall
be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from group A ,
after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported goods offered
in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further comparison
only, an amount equal to (i) the amount of customs duties and
other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would have to pay
for the importation of the goods offered in such group C bid, or
(ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods if said customs
duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If the group A bid in
such further comparison is the lowest, it shall be selected for
the award; if not, the bid from group C which as a result of the
comparison under paragraph (c) is the lowest evaluated bid shall
be selected.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by Bank
1.   Review of invitation to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
With respect to all contracts for vehicles, equipment, fur-
niture and other materials estimated to cost the equivalent of
$50,000 or more, and all contracts for civil works estimated to
cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid
and the specifications and other bidding documents, together with


﻿- 32 -
a description of the advertising procedures to be followed for the
bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said documents
or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Bank's
concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated,      Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is   de, inform
the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time
for its review, a detailed report, in the case of civil works
contracts by the architectural consultants referred to in Section
3.03 (i) of this Agreement, on the evaluation and comparison of the
bids received, together with the recommendations for award and
such other information as the Bank shall reasonably request. The
Bank shall, if it determines that the intended award would be in-
consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform
the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, with-
out the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those on which
bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submis-
sion to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds
from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.


﻿- 33 -
2.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan and not governed by the preceding paragraph, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after its execution
and prior to the submission to the Bank of the first application
for withdrawal o"f funds from the Loan Account in respect of such
contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together with the
analysis of bids, recommendations for award and such other infor-
mation as the Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if
it determines that the award of the contract was not consistent
with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower
and state the reasons for such determination.


