Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Cg    I'?Z3 1 - / N
Report No. 7077-IN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDIA
FIFTH (BOMBAY AND MADRAS) POPULATION PROJECT
May 25, 1988
India Country Operations Department
Population, Human Resources, Urban and Water Operations Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
RUPEE 12.9 - US$1.00
US$1.00 - RUPEE 0.077
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 METER (m) - 3.28 FEET (ft)
1 KILOMETERL (km) - 0.62 MILES
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS
ANM  -   Auxiliary Nurse Midwife
BMC  -   Municipal Corporation of Greater Bombay
CC   -   Conventional Contraceptives (Condoms and barrier methods)
CTI  -   Central Training Institute
CWS  -    Child Welfare Services (Madras)
DEHO -    Deputy Executive Health Officer
DMC  -   Deputy Municipal Commissioner (Bombay)
DOHFW-    Directorate of Health and Family Welfare (Tamil Nadu)
DPSM -   Department of Preventive and Social Medicine
EHO  -    Executive Health Officer
FVHW -    Female Voluntary Health Worker
CBMC -   Greater Bombay Municipal Corporation
HFWTC-    Health and Family Welfare Training Center
HP   -   Health Post
IEC  -    Information, Education and Communication
IMA  -    Indian Medical Association
IUCD -    Intra-Uterine Contraceptive Device
MCH  -   Maternal and Child Health
MCWC -   Maternal and Child Welfare Centers
MEIO -   Mass Education and Information Officer
MIES -   Management Information and Evaluation System
MMC  -   Madras City Municipal Corporation
MMOHFW-   Ministry of Health and Family Welfare
MPW(F)-   Multi-Purpose Worker (Female)
MPW(M)-   Multi-Purpose Worker (Male)
MTP  -   Medical Termination of Pregnancy
NIHFW-    National Institute of Health and Family Welfare
OP   -   Oral Pills
PHD  -    Public Health Department
PMP  -    Private Medical Practitioners
PPC  -    Post-Partum Center
PVO  -    Private Voluntary Organization
PWD  -    Public Works Department
UFWC -   Urban Family Welfare Center
URS  -   Urban Revamping Scheme
VHG  -   Voluntary Health Guide



FOR OMCIL USE ONLY
DEFINITIONS
Current Contraceptive    Proportion of eligible couples estimated to be
Prevalence               currently using a method of modern contraception.
Effective Contraceptive  Current contraceptive prevalence adjusted for
Prevalence               the relative effectiveness of contraceptive methods
(sterilization and oral contraceptives are assumed to
be 100% effective, IUCDs 95% and conventional
contraceptives 50%); always somewhat lower than
current prevalence.
Crude Birth Rate         Number of live births per year per 1000 population.
Crude Death. Rate        Number of deaths per year per 1000 population.
Rate of Natural          Difference between crude birth and crude death rates;
Increase                 usually expressed as a percentage.
Rate of Population       Rate of natural increase adjusted for (net)
Growth                   migration, expressed as a percentage of the total
population in a given year.
Total Fertility          The average number of live children that would be
Rate                     born per woman if she were to live to the end of her
childbearing years and bear children according to a
given set of age-specific fertility rates. The
Total Fertility Rate often serves as an estimate of
the average number of children per family.
Net Reproduction Rate    The number of live-born daughters a cohort of female
would bear under a given fertility schedule and a
given set of survival probabilities, from birth to the
end of the childbearing years.
Infant Mortality Rate    Annutl number of deaths of infants under one year
per 1000 live births during the same year.
Maternal Mortality Rate  Number of maternal deaths per 1000 births attributable
to pregnancy, childbearing, or puerperal complications
(i.e., within six weeks following childbirth).
Life Expectancy          Average number oi years expected to be  lived by
children born in a given year if mortality rates for
each age/sex group remain the same in the future.
I This document has a mestricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance |
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed withoat World Bank authorization.



- ii -
DEFINITIONS (continued)
Equivalent               An index of overall family planning performance
Sterilizations            calculated by adding the number of sterilizations
performed over a neriod of time, one-third the number
of IUCDs inserted, one-eighteenth the number of
equivalent conventional contraceptive users (condoms,
diaphragms, etc.) and one-ninth the number of
equivalent oral contraceptive users. These weights
are derived from an assessment of numbers of
births averted by difference contraceptive methods in
India.
Equivalent Acceptors      For oral contraceptives and condoms, the numbers of
equivalent users are calculated as the number of oral
contraceptive cycles distributed divided by 13 and the
number of condoms divided by 72; used by the GOI to
report achievements for these methods, rather than
the numbers of individual acceptors.



- iii -
INDIA
FIFTH (BOMBAY ANiD MADRAS) POPULATION PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
BASIC DATA                                                                          v
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY                                                         vi
I.    FAMILY WELFARE IN INDIA
A.  Population Characteristics and Trends .....................   1
B. Organization of the Family Welfare Program
in Bombay and Madras .....................................   3
C. Problems and Issues in the Family Welfare
Program ..................................................   6
II. GOVERNMENT FAMILY WELFARE POLICIES. PLANS AND PROGRAMS
A.  Health and Population Policy ..............................  11
B.  The Seventh Five-Year Plan and Revised Strategy ...........  11
C.  The Urban Revamping Scheme ................................  12
D.  The Private Sector ........................................  13
E.  Financing the Family Welfare Program ......................  13
F.  External Financing of Health and Family Welfare ...........  14
G.  IDA's Role and Sector Lending Strategy ....................  14
III. THE PROJECT
A.  Goals and Objectives ......................................  15
B.  Service Delivery Expansion ................................  17
C.  Quality Improvement (Training) ............................  18
D.  Management Improvement ....................................  19
E.  PVO and Private Practitioner Participation ................  22
IV. COST. FINANCING. IMPLEMENTATION AND DISBURSEMENTS
A.  Costs .....................................................  23
B.  Financing Plan ............................................  25
C.  Recurrent Cost Implications ...............................  25
D.  Status of Preparation .....................................  26
E.  Project Management ......................................    26
F.  Disbursements ......................................                     27
G.  Procurement ......................................                       28
H.  Accounting and Auditing ...................................  29
V.   BENEFITS AND RISKS ......................................                     30
VI.  AGREEMENTS REACHED .......................................   31
This Report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission to India from
November 12-December 2, 1987. Mission members were Mr. R. Cambridge
(Economist-Mission Leader), Ms. S. Stout (Public Health Specialist), Ms. P.
Khetrepal (Population Specialist), Mr. A. Andonyadis (Architect), Mr. D. Foster
(Training and IEC Specialist-Consultant) and Ms. F. Plunkett (Demographer)
Ms. S. Pak assisted in preparing the Report.



- iv -
Page No.
TABLES
3.1 Project Goals and Targets ................................ 16
4.1 Costs by Component ....................................... 24
4.2  Costs by Categories of Expenditures ...................... 24
4.3 Procurement Method ....................................... 29
ANNEXES
1. Population Size and Growth
2. Contraceptive Prevalence Rates in Slum Areas of Bombay and Madras
3. Family Planning and Maternal Child Health Service Statistics
4. Seventh Five-Year Plan: Family Planning Targets
5.  Sixth and Seventh Plan Outlays for Family Welfare Program
6. Bilateral and Multilateral Assistance to Health and Family Welfare
7. IDA Population Projects
8. Annual Civil Works Program
9. Schedule of Appointment of Additional Staff
10. Annual Training Plan/Calendar
11. MIES Implementation Plan
12. Terms of Reference for Studies
13. Annual IEC Plan
14. List of PVOs involved in Project Implementation
15. Project Costs
Table 1: Summary Costs by Component and Time
Table 2: Summary Costs by Categories of Expenditures and Time
Table 3: Summary Costs by Component and Categories of Expenditure
16. Financing Plan by Component and by Categories of Expenditure
17. Recurrent Cost Implications
18. Forecast of Expenditures and Disbursements
19. Project Beneficiaries
20. Selected Documents in the Project File
CHARTS
1. Organization of the Public Health Department - Bombay
2. Organization of the Public Health Department - Madras
3. Project Management Organization - Bombay
4. Project Management Organization - Madras
MAPS
1. India, Showing Location of IDA Supported Population Project Districts
2. Bombay, Showing Project Areas
3. Madras, Townships and Municipalities Showing Project Areas



v~~~~~~~~~~
FIFTH (BOMBAY AND MADRAS) POPULATION PROJECT
BASIC DMT
Total Area                          (March 1981)          3,287,253 sq.km
Total Population                    (March 1981'          685.2 M
Density per km2                     (1971-81)                216
Popuiation Growth Rate              (1985)                2.25%/annum
Crude Birth Rate                    (1985)                33/1000
Crude Death Rate                    (1985)                12/1000
Rate of Natural Increase            (1985)                2.1%
Life Expectancy at Birth            (1985)                55 years
Infant Mortality Rate               (1985)                95/1000
Maternal Mortality Rate             (1985)                50/10,000
Urban Population as Percent
of Total Population               (1981)                23.3%
Adult Literacy Rate                 (1981)
Males                                                   47%
Females                                                 25%
Primary School Enrollment           (1983-84)
Males                                                   92%
Females                                                 59%
Age Structure                       (1981)
0-14                                                   39%
15-60                                                   55%
60 and over                                              6%
Population per Physician            (1983)                2,610
Population per Midwife/Nurse        (1983)                2,251
Current Contraceptive
Prevalence                        (1987)                45%
Effective Contraceptive
Prevalence                        (1987)                38%
Per Capita Gross National
Product                           (1984)                US$260



- vi -
INDIA
FIFTH (BOMBAY AND MADRAS) POPU Wi'ION PROJECT
Credit and Proiect Summa.ry
Borrower:            India, acting by its President
Beneficiaries        Government of Tamil Nadu, the IYadras City Municipal
Corporation (MMC), and the Municipal Corporation of Greater
Bombay (BMC)
Amour.t         :    SDR 41.00 million (US$57.0 million equivalent)
Tarmc           :    Standard with 35 years maturity
On-Lending
Terms           :   Government of India (GOI) to Tamil Nadu and Maharashtra:
In accordance with standard arrangements for development
assistance to States for the development of family welfare
projects on terms and conditions applicable at the time
(funds for MMC and BMC to be passed on by the respective
States). At present, central assistance for family welfare
is provided on a grant basis.
Descripton    :   The project would support the Government's goal of
improving the availability and quality of family welfare
(family planning ar.d maternal and child health) services to
poor urban families. The project would be located in
Greater Bombay, Madras City and the Chingleput district in
Tamil Nadu, and its specific objectives would be to:
(a) support the Urban Revamping Scheme which is designed to
strengthen family welfare services in poor urban communi-
ties; (b) assist the Bombay and Madras Murnicipalities and
Tamil Nadu's Family Welfare Bureau in strengthening their
institutional capacity to deliver family welfare services;
(c) improve the quality of family welfare services; and
(d) increase the participation of Private Voluntary
Organizations (PVOs) and Private Medical Practitioners
(PMP) in the delivery of family welfare services in poor
urban areas. The project would comprise the following
components: (a) service delivery expansion through the
construction of new and rehabilitation of existing
facilities and the development of outreach programs; (b)
management improvement including the reorganization and
strengthening of Family Welfare Bureaus; the establishment
of information, education and communication activities, and
the institutionalization of monitoring and evaluation
systems; (c) quality improvement through the training of
all cadres of family welfare workers in the cities; and (d)
increasing PVO and PMP participation through grant-in-aid
mechanisms and innovat5 ve schemes.



- vii -
Benefits and
Risks           :   The project will benefit about 2.5 millicn poor women and
children by increasing the availability, quality and use of
family welfare services, thus increasing the use of
temporary methods, promoting birth spacing, and thereby
reducing morbidity and mortality among mothers and
children. The major risks are institutional and pertain to
the ability of the municipal governments to implement the
project, particularly to develop effective outreach
services and work collaboratively with PVOs, The phased
implementation of the project and the early emphasis in the
project on strengthening the institutional capacity of
appropriate units of municipal family welfare authorities
are expected to minimize these risks.
Estimgted Costs:                                  Local      Forsign   Total
------- US$ Million -----
Service Delivery Expansion                        37.70       2.33     40.03
Quality Improvement (Training)                     2.91       0.34      3.25
Management Improvement                            10.52       0.56     11.08
PVO and Private Practitioner
Participation                                    5.66       0.35      6.01
Total Base Cost                            56.79      3.58      60.37
Physical Contingencies                           3.90      0.35       4.25
Price Contingencies                             13.26      0.33      13.59
Total Project Cost                         73.95      4.26      78.21 *
* Including Taxes and Duties of US$1.31 million.
Financing Plan:
IDA                                               52.74      4.26      57.00
GoI                                               21.21       -        21.21
Total                                      73.95      4.26      78.21
Estimated
Disbursements:  FY89   FY90   FY91   FY92   FY93   FY94   FY95   FY96
Annual           1.66   5.08   8.19  10.53  10.64   9.28   8.02   3.60
Cumulative      1.66   6.74  14.93  25.46  36.10  45.38  53.40  57.00
Rate of Return:      Not applicable
Maps:   IBRD Nos. 20507, 205A8, 20509



INDIA
FIFTH (BOMBAY AND MADRAS) POPULATION PROJECT
I. FAMILY WELFARE IN INDIA
A. Population Characteristics and Trends
1.01         Population Crowth.  India's population of over 750 million in 1987
(Annex 1, Table 1) is the world's second largest. The population has more than
doubled since 1950, the result of long-term mortality declines combined with
slower and less consistent fertility declines (Annex 1, Table 2). Although the
curre.it population growth rate of around 2% per annum is modest when compared
with many developing countries, the base population is so large that the
absolute number added each year, some 16 million, is a serious constraint to
India's development efforts. Even if India is able to achieve its goal of
replacement fertility in the first decade of the coming century, the momentum
of population growth will ensure absol.ute increases in numbers for several
decades thereafter (Annex 1, Table 3).
.02        Fertility and Mortality.  The most important factor in recent
;rtility decline has been increasing contraceptive prevalence, which reached
?! % effective prevalence in 1987. Infant mortality declined from about 135 per
000 live births in the early 1970s to about 95 in 1985 (Annex 1, Table 2).
This is still relatively high compared with China with an IMR of 35/1000, and
Sri Lan.ka with an IMR of 36/1000, but compares favorably with the average of
all other low income countries exclusive of China which is 112/1000. Primary
health care interventions, including immunization of mothers and children,
pre- and post-natal care, growth monitoring of children, and nutritional
supplementation where necessary, have a direct effect on infant, child and
maternal survival and along with the education of mothers, will have to be
given consistent emphasis if mortality declines are to be sustained.
1.03         Urbanization.  The level of urbanization in India since Indepen-
dence has been relatively low, but this situation is changing rapidly. The
urban population is expected to double to at least 320 million in 2000, or
about 30% of the population. The bulk of the migrants to India's major cities
become slum dwellers and their demographic characteristics are not known with
any precision. However, while urban birth and death rates are in general lower
than rural rates, they mask wide differentials between the more affluent middle
and upper classes and slum dwellers. Most poor people live without sanitation
or potable water, in crowded, unventilated slum shacks, conditions that are
conducive to high morbidity rates, particularly for young children. Relative
to the rural poor, urban poor do have higher literacy rates and income levels,
lower mortality rates, diminished demand for child labor, excpanded
opportunities for female wage labor, and more exposure to mass media and
"modern" ideas. Yet, their fertility rates are not significantly lower than
among the rural poor. This is so in part because the rural fertility norms
which migrants bring with them to the cities are slow to change and suggests
that, as in rural India, interventions to provide family welfare services as
well as to promote demand for those senrices are necessary to accelerate
declines in fertility.



-2-
1.04         Bopbay is India's major industrial and financial center and second
largest urban agglomeration. The population of the Municipal Corporation of
Greater Bombay (BMC) I increased more than four times between 1941 and 1981,
from 1.8 million to 8.2 million; the 1987 population was estimated to be about
10 million (Annex 1, Table 1). Since most migrants become slum dwellers, the
slum population, which presently constitutes about 505 of the total, is growing
more rapidly than the municipality as a whole. Most of the growth is now
taking place in the outlying areas: the old city (Bombay Island), suburbs and
extended suburbs grew by 6%, 63% and 97% respectively over the 1971-81 period.
1.05         Although Bombay has the most diversified economy of India's major
cities, as well as higher average income levels, conditions are appalling in
its extensive slum areas, including some 400,000 persons who live in 20,000
deteriorating tenements in the southern part of Bombay Island and about 200,000
pavement dwellers. Bombay slum populations are diverse. comprising groups of
different regional origins and languages. Contraceptive prevalence varies
substantially among slum localities (Annex 2, Table 1). Although demographic
data for the slums are incomplete, those available indicate that vital rates
are significantly higher and contraceptive prevalence lower than the averages
for Greater Bombay (Annex 1, Table 2). A 1985 survey of slums (Annex 2,
Table 2) indicated a slum birth rate of 28, vs. 22 for Greater Bombay, and a
contraceptive prevalence rate of 25%, vs. 45% for Greater Bombay.
1.06         Madras is India's fourth largest city.  The population now
included in the Madras City Municipal Corporation (MMC) 2 has grown rapidly over
the last four decades, from 0.9 million in 1941 to 3.3 million in 1981, and is
estimated to have reached about 4 million by 1987 (Annex 1, Table 1). In 1981
the population of the outlying Chingleput areas of Greater Madras was a little
more than 700,000, or almost 20% of the total population of Greater Madras.
These outlying areas are growing even more rapidly than the Corporation.
While the population of the Corporation increased by 33% between 1971 and 1981,
the Chingleput areas of Greater Madras grew by 70% over the same period.
1.07         The slum population of the MMC is estimated to be about 40% of the
total. Since almost all of the migrants coming into the outlying areas are
poor, the percentage of slum dwellers in these areas is higher than it is in
the Corporation. In Madras the poor are spread throughout the city in some
1700 scattered settlements. Almost all of the slum dwellers have their origins
in rural Tamil Nadu and are Tamil-speaking. As in Bombay, vital rates for
these populations are significantly higher and contraceptive prevalence rates
lower than the averages for the Corporation (Annex 1, Table 2). A survey of
1  All population figures for "Bombay" refer to the area covered under the
Municipal Corporation of Greater Bombay (which is coterminous with
Bombay district) as of the 1981 census.
2  All population figures for "Madras" refer to the area covered by the
Madras City Municipal Corporation as of the 1981 census. The
population of the Corporation is entirely urban. "Greater Madras"
includes the Corporation as well as four municipalities and four
townships, all urban in character and contiguous to the Corporation,
that are part of the adjacent Chingleput district.



-3-
ten slums carried out in 1985 (Annex 2, Table 3) indicated that compared to
Madras as a whole, the slum populations had lower contraceptive prevalence
rates (27% vs. 47%); a higher birth rate (32% vs. 28%); and lower female
literacy (32% vs. 61%). A study carried out in the Madras slums by the lndian
Council of Medical Research in 1984 estimated an infant mortality rate of 95,
cs. 47 for the Madras Corporation. It also reported that less than 25% of
urban slum mothers interviewed had been visited in their homes by health
i"orkers.
B. Organization of the Family Welfare Program in Bombay and Madras
^L.08        Under India's constitution, policy for health and family welfare
£s the joint responsibility of the States and Central government. The Ministry
of Health and Family Welfare (MOHFU) is responsible for overall program
direction, guidance and evaluation, while program implementation is a state
responsibility. In the case of large cities, the municipal corporation assumes
or shares responsibilities with the states.
1.09         Bombay.  Although Bombay is part of the State of Maharashtra, the
BMC is virtually autonomous. The Public Health Department (PHD) of the BMC,
has overall responsibility for health and family welfare services in the Cor-
poration. For administrative purposes, the city is divided into four zones
under the administrative control of the Municipal Commissioner. Each zone is
under the direct supervision of a Deputy Municipel Commissioner (DMC). In
addition, the municipal area is further divided into 23 wards which are headed
by Ward Officers and where services are decentralized. The DMC in charge of
public health oversees all health and family welfare activities under municipal
control; and is assisted by an Executive Health Officer (EHO), four Deputy
Executive Health Officers (DEHO), one for each zone. He is also aided by eight
Assistant Health Officers (AHO), four of whom assist in the administration of
health matters in the zones and the four who administer the Tuberculosis (TB),
Malaria, Immunization, and Epidemiology programs (Chart 1). Each Ward has a
Medical Officer of Health (MOH) who is supervised by the AHO. The MOH
supervises the medical officers who operate the dispensaries and Health Posts
(HP) in each ward. A Special Officer, who reports to a DEHO, is head of the
municipal Family Welfare Bureau and is responsible for family planning and
maternal and child health (MCH) activities.
1.10         The BMC's health service delivery is organized in a three tier
system of hospitals, maternity homes and dispensaries which focus on the
provision of curative services. There are 15 general hospitals which provide
curative services, five specialty hospitals for TB, leprosy, ear, nose and
throat (ENT), infectious diseases, and cphthalmology, and three teaching
hospitals. The 25 maternity homes provide a total of 1002 beds for both in-
house delivery and confinement. They also offer limited outpatient and
inpatient services. Maternity wards attached to 12 of the general hospitals
have an additional 885 maternity beds which are used for pre-natal and post-
natal care, delivery, and for post-partum family planning and medical termina-
tion of pregnancy (MTP) services. A network of 151 municipal dispensaries
provide basic curative services and serve as referral centers for the identi-
fication and management of TB cases as well as malaria and leprosy control
efforts. Selected dispensaries also provide basic dental services. The BMC
also runs three medical schools attached to the teaching hospitals, a dental



-4-
school, ano five nursing schools. Each medical school has a strong Departmant
of Preventive and Social Medicine (PSM) with responsibility for managing a
Health Post in a slum area near the hospital. Each has organized an active
outreach program based at these facilities and has introduced a variety of
irniovative community-based projects. Over 700 PVOs of varying sizes provide
some health and family welfare services throughout the municipality, though
they are heavily concentrated in the old city. Table 3.1 summarizes service
availability in Bombay.
1.11         Family welfare services are currently provided through a network
of 61 Urban Family Welfare Centers (UFWC), 12 of which are based within general
hospitals, 23 in maternity homes and 25 within dispensaries and one which is
based at the Maharashtra State Health school. Each UFWC it, staf.ed with one
Medical Officer, one Public Health Nurse/Lady Health Visitor (PHN/LHV), one
male multi-purpose worker (MPW) and one femcle MPW. Family planning advice and
services, and maternal and child health services, particularly ante- and post-
natal counseling, referrals and immunization services are offered at these
centers. Female MPWs conduct ante and post natal check ups and immunization,
resupply of oral pills and condoms both within facilities and during household
visits, in addition to education and motivation activities. Initial screening
for oral pill acceptance and inter-uterine contraceptive devices (IUCDs)
insertions are facility based. Male MPWs, in addition to family planning
education and motivation, conduct screening for leprosy and TB, and manage
malaria control activities. Both male and female MPWs are responsible for
enumeration of all households in their service area and the preparation of
Eligible Couple Registers (ECRs). Female and male sterilization services are
provided within those centers based in maternity homes and general hospitals,
and vasectomies are provided at camps in selected dispensaries as well as in
hospitals and materrnity homes.
1.12         Limited staff availability in all UFWCs means that services are
conducted on primarily a passive basis, requiring self-motivated clients to
visit the service sites for care. The Urban Revamping Scheme (para 2.05) is
designed to provide the additional staff necessary to shift the service
delivery strategy toward greater outreach, which is to be developed through
systernatic household visits to the service population conducted by four teams
of male and female MPWs, each serving i population of approximately 12,500.
Although the scheme has been under implementation since 1985, BMC has not yet
been able to achieve full staff strength, particularly the identification and
enrollment of Voluntary Health Guides (VHG), nor to evaluate the impact of the
strategy due to continuing gaps in the availability and use of systematic
monitoring and evaluation procedures. In addition, the distribution of
community level facilities across the city is inequitable, leaving many poorer
sections of the City with limited access to family welfare and health
facilities. The more affluent families in the city rely almost exclusively on
private clinics and doctors. Middle income families use both private and
government services, while poorer families form the bulk of patients in the
smaller, community-based government facilities. BMC estimates that
approximately 12,000 general private practitioners and 2,000 specialists in
obstetrics and pediatrics are in practice throughout the city. The use of
traditional systems of medical care is also high among slum dwellers.



-5-
1.13         M.,dras.  The provision of Health and Family Welfare facilities in
Madras is shared between the MMC, which is part of the Department of Local
Administration and the Directorate of Health and Family Welfare of Tamil Nadu
(DOHFW). MMC's family welfare program is managed by the Family Welfare Bureau,
headed by the District Family Welfare Medical Officer, while MCH services are
provided by the Department of Child Welfare Services headed by an Additional
Health Officer (AHO).  A third department which delivers public health services
is headed by a Health Officer (Chart 2). An unusual feature in Madras is the
bifurcation between Family Welfare and MCH services which are managed by a
separate line of officials, under the overall supervision of the Commissioner.
The suburban areas bordering the city and falling in the district of Chingleput
consists of four municipalities which are administratively controlled by
Municipal Commissioners and four townships which function under the Chairman-
ship of the Collectors and sub-collectors, assisted by Executive Officers. The
management of the family welfare program ultimately rests with the Director,
Family Welfare, Tamil Nadu who monitors the program for these areas through the
District Family Welfare Medical Officer, Chingleput and the District Family
Welfare Medical Officer of the Corporation.
1.14         Maternal and child health and family welfare facilities in Madras
are shown in Table 3.1. At the apex of the system are twenty municipal, state
and central government hospitals, ten of which have teaching responsibilities
for three state-managed medical schools. None of the PSMs of the three medical
schools have active community-based programs. Family welfare services are
available in 49 UFWCs, 38 of which are attached to existing maternity wards in
Maternal and Child Welfare Centers (MCWCs) or to maternity wards in hospitals.
In addition, there are nine post-partum centers (PPCs) which have surgical
facilities and a total of 174 beds for sterilization and MTP.  Each UFWC is
designed to cover a population of 50,000 and is staffed with 1 medical officer,
1 health visitor, 1 multipurpose worker female [MPW(F)], and 1 field worker and
a storekeeper. In-clinic services include IUCD insertion, oral pill (OP) pres-
cription, conventional contraception (CC) supply and referrals for clinical
services.
1.15         Family planning performance has shown a consistently upward trend
in recent years, with the bulk of acceptors being for conventional
contraceptives (CC) followed by acceptors of sterilization and IUCDs.
Practice rates appear to vary between slum and non-slum populations. A recent
study of a sample of slum dwellers suggested that 2% of all acceptors were
using modern temporary methods, 80% female sterilization, 12% vasectomy, and
the remaining 6% some traditional form of contraception. Maternal and child
welfare services are managed by an AHO (para 1.13).  Facilities include 44
MCWCs, most of which are equipped with maternity beds, averaging 10 each, and
arc staffed by 1 Medical Superintendent, 1 Assistant Surgeon, 1 lHealth visitor,
and 1 or more midwives (ANMs/MPW) depending on the number of beds. Services
provided include deliveries for normal births, ante and post-natal care for
pregnant mothers and immunization and growth monitoring of children. Because
of limited facilities at MCWCs, complicated obstetric ceies, and cases for
postpartum sterilization are referred to hospital maternity wards or postpartum
facilities. Hospital facilities and post partum centers are not evenly dis-
tributed across the city, which lead to apparently high occupancy rates in
hospital ob-gyn wards, lengthy travel and long waiting times for postpartum
sterilization cases. MCWCs conduct about 25,000 births per year, or about 25%



- 6 -
of all institutional deliveries in Madras. MCWCs have little capacity for
outreach work. Family welfare services are less widely available in the
suburban areas. In two suburban townships almost no family planning activity
is currently conducted. There are relatively fewer community-level than
tertiary-level facilities, and the distribution of these across the city is
skewed against the poorer sections of the community. In addition to
government-sponsored facilities, there are about 200 private nursing homes as
well as private clinics providing services mainly to middle and upper income
populations. About fifteen PVOs are active in the family welfare field
throughout Madras, some operating hospitals, while others focus on the needs of
slum dwellers.
C. Problems and Issues in the Family Welfare Program
1.16         The family welfare program is characterized by a number of con-
straints and weaknesses. The situation in Bombay and Madras reflects the
problems of the national program as well as the specific circumstances of the
two municipalities.
1.17         Method Mix and Program Balance.  In Family Welfare, policies are
developed in consultation with the States through the Joint Council of Health
and Family Welfare, and through periodic meetings of state program officers.
Despite these consultations, the program tends to be oriented towards the
achievement of targets which are meant to be milestones towards which long and
short term goals are to be measured. In addition, the family welfare program
is administratively complex and involves central as weli as state agencies, and
in urban areas, a variety of different municipal departments responsible for
different aspects of family planning and maternal and child health. As a
result, significant time lags can occur between the development of a new policy
and its the implementation in the field. This is most apparent in the
program's successes with sterilization, and its slower progress with both
temporary methods of contraception and MCH services. While GOI's family
welfare policies shifted toward a greater use of temporary methods, community
participation and increased emphasis on improving maternal and child care in
the early 1980s (para 2.02), and its target setting methodology is constantly
reviewed, the process of translating these policies into information, education
and communication (IEC) and training programs, has not been completed. The
result has been the sterilization of too many older, higher parity women, which
may in part explain the failure of the birth rate to decline despite increases
in contraceptive prevalence since between 1977 and 1984. More recently,
however, the efforts to strengthen performance appears to have sparked a
decline in the observed birth rate which is reflected in a one point reduction
in 1935 and another half point in 1986.
1.18         In terms of effectiveness and the most efficient use of scarce
resources, sterilization has served the program well and will continue to play
a prominent role. However, the GOI has recognized for some years that the
program must also promote the use of temporary methods by couples for whom
sterilization is not yet appropriate. The program theoretically offers a
choice of the IUCD, oral contraceptives and conventional contraceptives, and
recent figures indicate increases in the acceptance of these temporary methods



7-
(Annex 3). However, knowledge, understanding and use of temporary methods are
all still limited. The lack of supplies, appropriate educational materials,
counseling, follow-up activities and support facilities, particularly in rural
areas and urban slums, is partly responsible. The attitudes of family welfare
workers are also part of the problem. As a result of deficiencies in their
training, adverse opinions about IUCDs, oral and injectable contraceptives, and
the rewards associated with the recruitment of sterilization acceptors, they
continue to promote sterilization rather than temporary methods. There is a
need therefore to devise ways in which official Government policy can be
translated into realistic goals at state and local levels and the existing
system of numerical targets modified accordingly. Moreover, achieving a shift
toward greater utilization of temporary methods will requ::re explicit efforts
to ensure that family welfare staff, particularly medical officers, have ready
access to up-to-date information on the clinical advantages and disadvantages
of various methods, understanding of the role effective counseling and follow
up procedures play in assuring better acceptance and continuation rates, and
guidance in improving the monitoring of the program to focus on assessments of
targets related to health outcomes rather than on simple counts of the number
of method specific acceptors. The dimensions of the sterilization problem are
well illustrated by the contraceptive prevalence data for Bombay and Madras
(Annex 2).  For seven slum populations, sterilization ranged from 78% to 96% of
effective contraceptive prevalence. In Madras, fewer than 3% of all acceptors
in 1984/85 were using temporary methods. This contrasts with about 30%
acceptors of temporary methods in a balanced program which includes an
appropriate mix of sterilizations and temporary methods. Low acceptance rates
of temporary methods among slum populations may reflect limited awareness as
well as constraints to supply. In either case a heavy reliance on permanent
methods may dampen the demographic impact which can be gained through increased
child spacing among younger women with fewer children.
1.19         Maternal and Infant Mortality.  Indicators of maternal and infant
health status suggest considerable scope for improving the performance of the
family welfare program's MCH components. Although maternal and infant
mortality rates for Greater Bombay show steady declines since the 1970s, and
currently are estimated at 3/1000 livebirths and 63/1000 livebirths respec-
tively, they remain unacceptably high and disguise significantly worse condi-
tions in slum areas, where surveys have recorded infant mortality rates as high
as 384/1000 and maternal mortality rates as high as 8/1000. Similarly, the
maternal mortality rate in Madras is estimated, on the basis of hospital
records, at 3/1000 and infant mortality at 47/1000. Although high percentages
of births are institutional in Bombay (85-90%) and Madras (95%), the coverage
of services in both cities is limited in the numbers of facilities and by the
lack of outreach and extension services of the UFWCs. In a study of slum
populations in Madras for instance, it was found that fewer than 30% of mothers
had been contacted by a health worker during her pregnancy. Although private
providers and traditional practitioners are an important source of maternal and
child care, the extent and quality of services is not well known.
1.20         Management.  Management deficiencies which are apparent at all
levels of the program arise because most of the managers have had little
exposure to management concepts in their professional training. Planning, in
the sense of allocating resources towards the achievement of identifiable,
realistic goals within a specified time frame, is not as strong as it should be



-8-
at central and state levels, and is quite weak in the municipalities.
Centrally determined numerical performance targets as a planning and monitoring
tool are an antrenched feature of the Indian family welfare program and these
targets result in emphasis on sterilization. Supervision tends to be
mechanical and critical rather than supportive. The need for management
training and tools such as management information and evaluation systems has
been recognized but implementation has not been able to keep pace with the
requirement.
1.21         In Bombay, the growth of the municipality has outstripped the
PHD's ability to cope effectively with its full range of responsibilities. The
PHD currently has to manage the provision of health services, and various
vertical programs including family welfare with an organizational structure
which is short of staff, and poorly equipped and trained in management skills.
This hampers its ability to deal effectively with issues relating to the
medical schools, the private sector, and the demands of elected officials. The
Special Officer (AHO/FW) has neither the status nor the administrative support
within the PHD to effectively conduct GOI's expanding family welfare program.
Within the MMC, the division between family planning, maternal-child health,
and other health services, with the head of each unit reporting separately to
the Municipal Commissioner, is an unsatisfactory arrangement. While the DOHFW
provides technical support to the MMC, it has not sought to create a more
rational framework for the management of health and family welfare services by
the Corporation. In the urban municipalities and townships in Chingleput
district, rapid growth without a commensurate increase in resources from the
State has undermined the ability of the district health and family welfare
structure to provide services. The small Chingleput municipalities and
townships are financially and administratively weak and provide only minimal
services.
1.22         Trainirg.  At the central level, the National Institute of Health
and Family Welfare (NIHFW), as presently otganized and managed, has been unable
to provide the guidance and technical inputs necessary for the development of a
national family welfare manpower development strategy. NIHFW's links with the
several Central Training Institutes (CTIs), one of which is located in Bombay,
are loose and unclear while the role and functions of the CTIs themselves are
also unclear. Within the States there are no apex institutions dedicated to
developing and coordinating the in-service training activities carried out by
several Health and Family Welfare Training Centers (HFWTCs) in each state.
Training has been accorded little status, as manifest in fund- allocated to
this activity. Partly as a result,the quality and morale of training staff,
physical facilities, and the training imparted are all poor.
1.23         Pre-service training of paramedical staff is generally well-
organized, although it is clinically oriented and needs a more practical family
welfare focus, including more field practice with an MCH orientation. Once
trained and assigned, paramedical staff do not receive systematic refresher
training, with the result that their functional knowledge and skills quickly
erode.  The MOHFW recogn  .es that the extensive training needs of the staff in
the family welfare program must be urgently addressed. Family welfare training
has also not as yet reflected the special needs of urban slum dwellers, but it
is recognized that pro-service and in-service training courses must be
developed to meet the needs of urban based service delivery staff.



- 9 -
1.24         Bombay's PHD has no specific responsibility for pre- or in-service
training of staff. Paramedical staff are trained at state training schools
located outside Bombay, but the PHD has had no difficulties in filling posi-
tions. For Female Voluntary Health Workers (FVHWs), training has been con-
ducted on an ad hoc basis by either interested PVOs or the PSMs of the medical
schools. Responsibility for training field staff in Greater Madras rests with
the DOHFW but it has no capacity to systematically formulate training policy,
prepare comprehensive training plans or contribute to curriculum development.
The HFWTC located in Madras conducts almost no activities for urban-based staff
and concentrates on in-service training of rural staff. Family welfare staff
of the MMC are trained outside of the city and once recruited into service,
receive almost no further training. There has been no systematic development
of FVHWs by the MMC, and PVOs have been the sole agents for their training.
1.25         Information. Education and Communication (IEC).  IEC efforts in
India have relied on a two pronged strategy including the use of mass media and
print materials, and education and extension efforts managed by State and
district level Mass Education and Information officers (MEIO). The program has
in the past been responsible for the production of materials at both center and
state levels, but the MOHFW increasingly recognizes that it may be effective to
complement these efforts through the mobilization of private sector advertising
and marketing skills for the design, pretesting and production of materials.
As regards communication and education efforts, there is increasing recognition
that service delivery staff themselves need training in interpersonal
communication and motivation skills to enhance program impact. The GOI also
recognizes that IEC must utilize interpersonal communication and accommodate
the segmented nature of potential demand for family welfare services. However,
program managers at state and local levels remain unconvinced of the
contribution that IEC can make to program implementation. The IEC component of
the program is also constrained by the failure to provide staff with
appropriate technical training. Neither the Bombay nor the Madras PHDs have
IEC Cells, and neither carry out IEC activities or. a regular basis, despite the
media available in the urban setting.
1.26         Monitoring. Evaluation and Research.  The compilation of program
performance data at local centers for transmittal to district, state and
central authorities has been a cumbersome and time-consuming process that
produces data of dubious value to both program administrators and field staff.
The development of Management, Information and Evaluation Systems (MIES) which
are designed to efficiently provide performance data as well as additional
information useful for management purposes is an urgent requirement. The State
of Maharashtra has successfully implemented such a system, but Bombay is not
included. The Bombay Family Welfare Bureau compiles and consolidates data on
family welfare performance from both government and non-government sources for
transmittal to the state and central government as required, but conducts only
perfunctory analysis of the data for management purposes and program eva-
luation. Data reporting formats emphasize numbers of acceptors rather than
acceptance rates. Although data on input variables, including staff
availability and vacancy rates, availability of commodities and supply and
expenditures are regularly maintained, links between inputs and program
effectiveness are rarely analyzed. Although reviews of performance reports are
undertaken through monthly meetings at each administrative level, it has so far



- 10 -
been difficult to employ available information as tools for the identification
and follow-up of specific clients, for worker scheduling, or as feedback
mechanisms. The situaticn in Madras is similar.
1.27         Research and evaluation activities in the Family Welfare program
have tended to be quantitative rather than qualitative and demographic rather
than operational in orientation. Despite these limitations, useful work has
been carried out by the Population Research Centers, as well as by academic and
private research centers. Program managers nonetheless tend to be skeptical of
research and generally do not appreciate how the information generated from
this body of work can be of use to them.
1.28         The Private Voluntary Sector.  There are over 30,000 PVOs in India
of different sizes and orientation. The majority of these are found in the
southern states as well as Maharashtra and Gujarat. They tend to work mostly
in urban areas and are closely involved with local communities. The GOI has
devised several schemes to bring more of the PVOs into the family welfare
service delivery area. However, the mechanisms of resource transfer from the
GOI to the PVOs have not functioned well, largely because of bureaucratic
rigidities and government financial rules of audit and disbursement. In this
situation, many PVOs do not avail themselves of GOI funds. The small size of
the PVOs, the limited areas of their operation, and the technical and
managerial weaknesses of their staffs make wide-scale expansion of their
activities problematic, particularly if there is no system to monitor and
evaluate performance.
1.29         In contrast to the efforts the GOI has made to support the family
welfare activities of PVOs, only limited attempts have been made to forge links
with private medical practitioners (PMPs). PMPs are an important source of
family welfare services in urban areas, and they could do far more to promote
contraceptive acceptance. However, they are often handicapped by lack of
familiarity with particular contraceptive methods, and family welfare subjects
as well as motivation to pursue family planning with their patients. The
existing government incentive scheme for PMPs is mainly focused on steriliza-
tion.
1.30         Service Utilization.  Although there are very few studies relating
to the utilization of government health services in urban slums, those that
have been conducted show that while curative services provided at the clinic
are well utilized, preventive and specialist curative care are not. A 1981
survey of 400 households in Bombay found that the very poor who could not
afford private health services were using the free government outpatient
services. They constituted 50% of the patient load. A 1986 survey of four
slums in New Delhi found that only one of them had a government health service
facility of satisfactory quality, the other slums had only a few private
practitioners. Overall, 62% of the people utilized government services, 24%
used both government and private, and 14% depended totally on private services.



- 11 -
II. GOVERNMENT FAMILY WELFARE POLICIES. PLANS AND PROGRAMS
A. Health and Population Policy
2.01         The GOI clearly supports a national population policy.  Family
planning is an essential part of its overall "Health for All by 2000 A.D."
strategy, which calls for: restructuring and reorientation of the health care
system to integrate family planning and basic health services particularly
maternal and child health (family welfare); emphasizing promotive and
preventive rather than curative care, especially those aspects designed to
protect and promote the health of mothers and children; emphasizing provision
of services to those who are cu;rently under-serviced, particularly in rural
areas and urban slums; and involving local communities in the design and
delivery of services. With respect to family planning, the GOI supports the
adoption of contraception on an entirely voluntary basis and the equal
promotion of all contraceptive methods. The National Health Policy calls for
the program to achieve the following demographic targets by 2000:
Crude Birth Rate               21 (per 1000 population)
Crude Death Rate               9 (per 1000 population)
Infant Mortality Rate          below 60 (per 1000 births)
Life Expectancy                64 years
Net Reproduction Rate          1 (female child per woman)
Immunization Coverage          above 85%
Effective Contraceptive
Prevalence Rate               60%
B. The Seventh Five-Year Plan (1985-1990) and Revised Strategy
2.02         Under the Seventh Five-Year Plan (1985-1990), the important family
welfare goals remain as outlined in the National Health Policy. To achieve
these, the strategies include: (a) compensation to acceptors of sterilization
and IUCDs, and incentive payments to motivators; (b) promotion of temporary
contraceptive methods for couples for whom sterilization is inappropriate; (c)
intensive implementation of the expanded program of immunization (EPI); and (d)
IEC efforts to increase knowledge and acceptance of both family planning and
MCH components of the program. In support of the family health and welfare
program, female education would be expanded and compliance with the legal ages
for marriage (18 for females and 21 for males) would be enforced. The increased
involvement of local communities, particularly through the Village Health Guide
(VHG) scheme and the use of MTP in cases of contraceptive failure (provided for
under legislation enacted in 1972), are also included. Targets include 31
million sterilizations, 21.25 million IUCD insertions, and 14.5 million CC and
OP users by 1990 (Annex 4).
2.03         In 1986, the MOHFW revised its strategy in order to make the
program more responsive to a changing population mix and the segmented market
for the provision of family welfare services. The revised strategy calls for
new efforts to raise the average age of marriage of women to over 20 years, by
intensifying female literacy programs, curbing the school dropout rate for
girls, and offering better employment opportunities for rural women. The
eLfort to reduce infant mortality below 60 per 1000 births is to be con-
centrated in a mass immunization program. The goal is that every child and



- 12 -
expectant mother will be immunized by 1990. A nutrition intervention program
will also be launched to distribute iron tablets, Vitamin A, and iodized salt.
The Integrated Child Development Scheme (ICDS) would be expanded to provide
immunization, nutritional supplementation; nutrition education, pre-school
education and female adult literacy to a larger number of deprived areas.
2.04         The revised strategy also places greater emphasis on IEC.
Emphasis would bs shifted from simple propaganda and publicity to popu..ation
education and information specifically targeted at key groups, as well as
attempting to overcome some of the provider and client resistance to temporary
methods. Linkages would be established with adult education programs, schools,
colleges, trade unions, and employers associations.  PVOs are seen as most
effective in motivating people at the grassroots level.  Taking a cue from
these organizations, the GOI proposes to further strengthen the two million
strong village-level women's volunteer corps who would act as catalysts for
social change. Each volunteer is expected to motivate 60 eligible couples
annually and serve as a link between the health services and the community.
Finally, incentives which have always been a feature of India's family planning
policies, continue to play a vital role. For example, one child parents would
be given old age pensions and low-premium life insurance policies. In an
attempt to rnmove and/or moderate the deep-rooted preference for sons, families
with two daughters and no sons would be given bonds worth 25,000 rupees if they
accept sterilization. These couples are given "honored citizen' status, which
entitles them to preferential treatment in employment, land allotment, and loan
schemes, as well as other benefits.
C. The Urban Revamping Scheme
2.05         Questions concerning the inadequate provision of health and family
welfare services in urban slums were raised in 1982 during a meeting of the
Central Council for Health and Family Welfare. A committee, known as the
Krishnan Committee, was then constituted to make recommendations about the
reorganization of family welfare and primary health care services for urban
areas, with emphasis on the need to provide family welfare and preventive
health services through an outreach program for the poor. The Krishnan
Committee's recommendations, which focused on population-based facility and
staffing norms, have become de facto government policy regarding urban health
and family welfare services. Subsequently, under the Seventh Plan, urban
health has been identified as a major policy focus, resulting in the Urban
Revamping Scheme (URS). The core of the scheme is the Health Post, staffed by
a doctor, a public health nurse and four MPWs(F). The HP differs functionally
from previously established urban facilities by providing an outreach
capability designed to develop closer links with the community and to bring
services to clients. The outreach program is conducted by the MPWs supported
by female voluntary health workers (FVHWs), one for every 2000 population.
There is also provision for social workers to assist in the establishment and
strengthening of community links. There can be four types of HPs categorized
as A, B, C and D depending on population size. Each °D' type HP is expected to
serve about 50,000 people and is to be located in the slums for easy access to
slum families. Implementation of the URS varies from city to city. In Bombay
the URS was initiated in 1985. Each UFWC was upgraded through the addition of
three additional MPWs(M) and three additional MPWs(F), with plans to add 25
FVHWs per HP, to serve a population of about 50,000. MPWs (male and female)



- 13 -
are to work in teams, each team visiting a total population of 12,500 (or about
2,500 families) on a regular basis. Madras plans to strengthen its HP level
services through renovations of existing facilities and construction of new
HPs. Unlike Bombay, Madras does not propose to include MPW(M) nor FVHWs in its
scheme. The HP represents the first systematic attempt by government to provide
integrated health and family welfare services to urban slum populations based
on concepts of interaction between the community and service providers.
D. The Private Sector
2.06         The GOI's policy since 1976 has been to encourage private sector
and PVO involvement in program implementation (para 1.27). The GOI has
provided financial assistance to PVOs through a grant-in-aid mechanism under
which support is provided for sterilization beds, post-partum centers, other
clinical facilities, and the training of family welfare staff. Currently, PVO
activities account for about 2% of family welfare expenditures. Experience to
date reveals that administrative impediments to resource transfer, low
financial ceilings on the amounts available and general skepticism about
government in general, have limited PVO interest in the use of government
resources.
2.07         Most large PVOs have their operational base in the urban areas and
are adept at providing family welfare services, in part because they take a
flexible approach to meeting the needs of poor people. Slum and shanty town
dwellers tend not to view health and family welfare as a high priority. Food,
housing, jobs, water and sanitation take precedence. Faced with these
attitudes, PVO strategies encompass a range of activities, usually directly or
indirectly related to income generation or, in some cases, feeding supplements
for children. Health and family welfare services are included within this
framework. The potential benefits of mobilizing the active participation of
PVOs in a larger program are therefore high, provided the framework can be
sorted out. Financial resources of PVOs are, however, limited and rapid
expansion of their responsibility may place unacceptable managerial and
administrative strains on them. The GOI's grants-in-aid mechanism has recently
been modified to ensure that funds are transferred fully and on time, that
ceilings are realistic and more flexibly applied, and that mutually-agreed
accountability procedures are instituted.
2.08         Private medical practitioners are the county's main providers of
curative medical care. Private medical facilities are also a major source of
secondary and tertiary level care and training, and play a significant role in
the provision of family planning, particularly among higher income urban
groups. The Government has recognized that the assistance of the private
sector must be mobilized and has developed programs to train doctors in the use
of laparascopes, and subsidize the procurement of these by private doctors.
Other schemes involve the provision of condoms and oral pills free of charge to
doctors for distribution, and financial incentives for sterilizations.
E. Financing the Family Welfare Program
2.09         The family welfare program is considered of national importance
and expenditures for family welfare incurred by the States are, therefore, met
almost entirely by GOI. Expenditures on family welfare increased from US$92



- 14 -
million in 1978/79 (actual) to an expected average of about US$540 million per
year undei the Seventh Plan (Annex 5) for an average annual rate of growth of
about 25% in real terms. While family welfare expenditures have also been
increasing as a percentage of total consolidated expenditures, nonetheless,
even in 1985, it was insignificant (1.8%) compared to the total, and family
welfare represented only about 14% of the total expenditures on health and
family welfare. In per capita terms, GOI expenditures on family planning and
MCH in 1983/84 amounted to only about US$3.23. The Government's increasing
commit:nent to family welfare is reflected in the increase in Seventh Plan
allocations over the Sixth Plan. Outlays amount to Rs. 3,256 crores (US$2,713
million equivalent) or about three times that of the Sixth Plan. Only nominal
charges and fees are levied on beneficiaries who utilize public sector health
and family welfare service facilities.
2.10         The family welfare program is supplemented by the private sector.
It has been estimated that private expenditures account for about 70% of total
health expenditures in the country, with the major share going to private
allopathic and indigenous medical practitioners. Several large PVOs focus
their activities on the family welfare needs of low income groups. Through its
grants-in-aid procedure, the GOI extends limited support to such PVOs, when
their objectives are consistent with the national program (Para. 2.06). Large
private businesses often provide mixed curative and preventive services for
their employees, other family planning services to employees and dependents,
and on occasion, to the surrounding community.
F. External Financing of Health and Family Welfare
2.11         International assistance has supported health and family welfare
activities in India since 1963.  Support has come from the UNFPA, UNICEF, WHO,
as well as the governments of the United Kingdom (ODA), Norway (NORAD), Denmark
(DANIDA), Sweden (SIDA), and the United States (USAID). The Area Projects
program (para 2.12) is also being assisted by UNFPA, ODA, DANIDA, and USAID
(Annex 6). The International Planned Parenthood Federation provides financial
support to the Family Planning Association of India (FPAI). Among private
organizations, the Population Council, the Ford Foundation, and the Rockefeller
Foundation support demographic and biomedical research. Most of the Area
Projects were completed in 1986, and several donors have indicated to GOI their
willingness to continue supporting its family welfare efforts.
G. IDA's Role and Sector Lending Strategy
2.12         IDA has supported the main element of GOI's family welfare
strategy; a concentration of service delivery in rural areas and backward
districts based on the Model Plan or Area Projects Scheme. Since 1973, IDA has
financed four population projects for a total of US$188.2 million (Annex 7).
The common objectives of these projects have been to reduce fertility and
mortality in selected rural districts in the states of Karnataka, Uttar
Pradesh, Andra Pradesh, Kerala, and West Bengal. The first project was largely
experimental and assisted in the introduction of the Model Plan. Subsequent
projects have been based on this Plan. The Third and Fourth projects have also
included statewide activities (vs. district) such as IEC, MIES, and training.
The first project was closed in 1980, and a Project Completion Report prepared



- 15 -
in May 1981. The Project Performance Audit Report was completed in August
1981. The implementation of the second project has been extended by two years
to March 1988. Projects generally have been well-implemented and compliance
with covenants has been satisfactory. The lessons learned so far from these
projects are that (a) improving the quality and management of family welfare
facilities is a critical factor in influencing the demand for services; (b) an
analysis of local demographic characteristics and family planning preferences
is a prerequisite to developing realistic targets and services; and (c) the
participation of local communities, the private sector and other non-
governmental organizations must be encouraged if the GOI's efforts to extend
the program are to be successful.
2.13         Sector Lending Strategy.  IDA's broad goal in the family welfare
sector is to support GOI's efforts as outlined in the   'enth Five-Year Plan
and Revised Strategy (paras 2.02-2.04). IDA's assistanue would be guided by
the central objective of helping GOI create an environment in which the
different types of clients for family planning (actual or potential) have the
requisite knowledge. attitudes. and access to services that are provided in a
cost-effective manner. Programs which address service delivery, training, IEC
and are concentrated in urban slums and backward rural districts will be
supported. To maximize the use of IDA resources, it is expected that lending
would gradually shift from project type operations to program support lending.
The use of this lending instrument will facilitate both faster disbursements
and increased emphasis on policy reforms initiated by GOI and which are
supported by IDA. IDA's close involvement with the implementation of GOI's
policies at center, state and district levels, provides a base for continuing
and strengthening participation in the design and review of the institutional,
financial, and software aspects of the program. Through lending and sector
work, IDA would assist GOI in reforming those policies that act to retard
progress. IDA's lend_'ng strategy recognizes that a program with many
entrenched biases, will take as long as ten years or more to be completely
reoriented. The projects developed over that period would concentrate on
supporting GOI Revised Strategy and urban family welfare policies in high
fertility states and urban slum areas. The proposed project reflects movement
along this path.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Goals and Objectives
3.01         Goals.  The principal goal of the proposed project is to assist in
the implementation of the GOI's policies and programs for revamping the
organizational, service delivery, and outreach systems for family welfare in
urban slums and congested areas as part of the national Urban Revamping Scheme.
3.02         Objectives.  The specific objectives of the preposed project are
to: (a) expand family welfare services with the emphasis on maternal and child
health, birth spacing and increased use of temporary contraceptive methods in
the Greater Bombay, Madras City and the Chingleput district in Tamil Nadu;
(b) improve the quality of family welfare services delivered in Bombay, Madras
and Chingleput; (c) strengthen the capacity of Tamil Nadu, Bombay and Madras to
plan, manage, and implement family welfare programs in urban areas; and (d)



- 16 -
increase the participation of PVOs and PMPs in the family welfare program in
urban areas.
3.03         The service delivery expansion objective would be achieved by the
construction, furnishing, equipping and staffing of new HPs and the
rehabilitation/extension of existing health facilities to create additional
HPs. The guality improvement obiective would be achieved by the training of
all categories of family welfare workers in both cities. The management
imvrovement obiective would be achieved in Bombay by creating a Central
Coordinating Office in the PHD and three Family Welfare Bureaus; and in Tamil
Nadu by strengthening the State and Madras City Family Welfare Bureaus. The
objective of increasing PVO and PMP Rarticipation in the family welfare program
in Bombay, Madras and Chingleput would be achieved by assisting PVOs to operate
HPs, devolving FVHW training and selected IEC activities to PVOs, supporting
innovative schemes of PVOs, and providing upgrading training and supplies to
PMPs. The physical and service delivery targets of the project and a com-
parison with the current status in Bombay and Madras are outlined in Table 3.1.
Table 3.1 Proiect Targets
Current            Projected
A.  Facilities                              Status             Status - 1995
I. Bombay
Hospitals
w/Health Post                  13                     18
w/Post-Partum Center            5                     11
w/Pediatric Clinic &
Premature Baby Ward           0                      6
Maternity Homes
w/Health Post                  20                     25
w/PPC facilities                0                      5
Dispensaries
w/ Health Post                 23                     69
Health Posts (stand alone)           0                      30
PVO Health Posts                     0                       9
Total Health Posts                  56                    195
II. Madras
Hospitals
w/Health Post                   0                      9
Maternities (MCWC)                  44                     46
w/Health Post                  30                     44
w/Operating Theatre and/or      0                     25
additional beds
Dispensaries
w/ Health Post                  2                      2
Zonal Offices                        0                     25
PVO Health Post                     13                     18
Health Posts (stand alone)           0                      56
Total Health Posts                  45                    152



- 17 -
Current           Projected
B.  Service Delivery Achievements          Status             Status - 1995
(in slum populations)
Effective contraceptive prevalence         20-30%                60%
Method Mix
__% temporary                      5% *                  35%
% permanent methods              95% *                 65%
Immunization Coverage                      50-60%                95%
Ante-natal care                             NA                   95%
Post-natal care                             NA                   95%
Institutional Deliveries                   75-90%                98%
Growth Monitoring                           NA                   80%
Birth order
1st                                35%
2nd                                30%
3rd                                20%     (Reductions in 3rd and
4th                                15%     higher order births)
* This estimate represents the average percentage of all users accepting
permanent methods amongst all users in a small scale surveys of slum
populations in Bombay and Madras. More refined estimates will be
available upon completion of the baseline survey.
B.  Service Delivery Expansion (Proposed Outlay US$40.03 Million) 1
3.04         Bombay's population is projected to reach about 13.0 million by
1995 with about 6.5 million or 50% of the population residing in slum type
environments. Under the URS, Bombay is eligible for a total of 195 HPs, i.e.,
130 HPs in slum areas using a ratio of 1 HP per 50,000 population and 65 HPs in
non-slum areas using a ratio of 1 HP per 100,000 population. Since 56 HPs
already exist, an additional 139 are required. Given the emphasis on es-
tablishing HPs through the addition of staff to existing facilities such as
hospitals, maternity homes and dispensaries, only 30 new exclusive HP
facilities would have to be constructed. These new HP would be located in slum
areas in the faster growing extended suburbs where the availability and
location of existing facilities is likely to be less favorable than in the more
established wards of the city. Efforts would be made during project implemen-
tation to increase the participation of PVOs in the new centers, beyond the 9
HPs they will operate under the project (paras 3.14-3.15). Service delivery in
Bombay would be expanded further through the development of 11 PPCs which would
include five pediatric and five premature baby wards, and the upgradation of
selected facilities of the Family Planning Hospital at Parel. BMC has selected
and surveyed the sites for che 5 HPs to be constructed during the first year of
the project.
3.05         The population of Madras and its extended suburbs is projected to
reach about 6.3 million by 1995 with about 4.9 million people residing in the
1 This and subsequent references to outlays are base costs estimates
only.



- 18 -
area of the municipal corporation and about 1.4 million in the suburbs. Under
the URS, MMC is eligible for a total of 125 HPs, and the suburbs for an
addition 27 HPs, for a total of 152 HPs. Since 49 UFWCs already exist and
would be converted into HPs, and another 25 HPs have been established, a total
of 78 new HPs Posts would be required. Of these, physIcal construction would
be required at 58 locations, 48 in the city and 10 in the suburbs. Tamil Nadu
and MMC have surveyed and completed preliminary designs for about one third of
the buildings proposed for new construction/additions in Madras, and for 10
sites in the suburbs. During negotiations, Tamil Nadu, MI4C and BMC provided
assurances that they would prepare and submit to IDA annual construction
programs substantially in accordance with Annex 8, no later than January 31 of
each year.
3.06         HPs in Bomoay and Madras would concentrate on the development and
institutionalization of outreach programs in slum areas which would be designed
to increase access to available services as well as concentrate on the promo-
tive and preventive aspects of public health. In the area of family welfare,
birth spacing and the use of temporary methods would be emphasized as would pre
and ante natal care, identification of higl-;I'   pregnancies, the systemization
of raferral procedures and the immunizatic,  I *,iildren.  In Bombay, each HP
would be staffed with a doctor, Public Hea.',, !t rse (Nurse Midwife), four
ANMs/MPW;F); four MPWs(M) and 25 FVHWs.  In L½.:as, the HPs are to be staffed
with a Lady Medical Officer, one PHN/LHV, and four MPWs(F)/ANMs, as well as
staff including MPWs from the existing 44 MCWCs where the HPs are to be
established. This would necessitate the integration of staff of two
departments; the Family Welfare Bureau and the Child Welfare Service Department
of the MMC. MMC prepared an Action Plan acceptable to IDA detailing the
methods and procedures by which the two departments and the services they
deliver would be integrated. The complement of staff at the HPs in Bombay and
Madras is expected to develop outreach activities for a ratio of about one MPW
per 5,000 people. This level of MPW/ANM staff coverage is the minimum to
achieve project goals, as the effectiveness of outreach is based on the fre-
quency and length of contact between the health worker and target family. In
Bombay, outreach activities would be directed by the Junior Ward Medical
Officer, while in Madras, Zonal Medical Officers would be responsible for
management and direction of the program with PHN/LHVs acting as frontline
supervisors. During negotiations, Tamil Nadu, MMC and BMC provided assurances
that they would appoint sufficient staff, substantially in accordance with
levels and timing as outl'ned in Annex 9, to ensure that outreach programs are
both effective and manageable. The project would support the expansion of
service delivery in Bombay and Tamil Nadu (Madras and Chingleput district) by
financing civil works, furniture, equipment, consumable materials, operation
and maintenance costs and the salaries of additional staff on a declining
scale.
C. Quality Tmprovem.ent (Training) (Proposed Outlay (USS 3.25 million)
3.07         The quality of Family Welfare services in Bombay would be improved
through the recruitment and training of the appropriate level of personnel to
staff project institutions as well as to undertake the outreach services which
are a key element in urban service delivery. A Training Cell would be created
in the Central Coordination Office (parn 3.09) with the specific responsibility
of collaborating with local training institutions including the Civic Training



- 19 -
and Research Institute (CTRI) at Borivali, Medical Colleges, and the Central
Family Welfare and Research Center at Deonar. The Cell would prepare training
manuals, schedules, and materials. It would undertake periodic assessments of
trainees, arrange for pre-placement and in-service training, as well as
training of trainers. Pre-service and in-service technical, managerial and
upgrading training programs would be organized for senior and middle-level
managers such as the DMC, HOs, DHO; Uard Officers, first level peripheral
workers including social workers, PHNs, ANMs, and MPWs, supervisors, and field
staff such as FVHWs, health visitors, and local leaders. Over the project
period it is expected that about 8,000 staff would participate in either pre or
in-service training.
3.08    In Tamil Nadu,Training Cells would be created in the DOHFW and the
Madras District Family Welfare Bureau. The main purpose would be to plan and
coordinate the training of aLl project staff, including organizing and planning
collaboration with appropriate training institutions. Mass media and
managerial staff would be trsined at the Institute of Rural Health and Family
Welfare - Gandhigram, Anna Institute of Management, and the NIHFW; supervisory
staff from HPs at the HFWTCs in Madras, the Lady Health Visitor School (K.G.
Hospital) and the four teachLng hospitals; and MPWs at the HFWTCs. For
purposes of the project, the 18 month training of ANMs would include a six-
month internship at an urban Health Post rather than a rural facility.  Because
of the proposed change in course structure, the role of the Madras HFWTC would
also change.  Tamil Nadu confirmed prior to credit negotiations that the Madras
HFWTC would, in addition to training staff from rural areas, also train staff
for the urban areas. Over the project period, it is projected that about 3,000
staff in all categories would receive either pre-service or in-service
training.  During negotiations, Tamil Nadu, MMC and BMC provided assurances
that they would prepare and transmit to IDA annual training plans
substantially in line with Ananex 10 by January 31 of each year. The project
would support quality improvement through training by financing the costs of
local training including courses, workshops, and seminars; and the equipment
and supplies necessary for the conduct of in-service training for the staff of
the HPs, and the salaries of additional instructional staff on a declining
scale.
D. Management ImRrovement (Proposed Outlay USS 11.08 million)
3.09    Administration.  In order to ensure the delivery of high quality
services in an efficient and effective manner, the management of the Family
Welfare Program in Bombay (para 1.21) would be reorganized and strengthened.
The project would be supervised by an Additional Executive Health Officer
(AEHO) who would work under the overall guidance and supervision of the EHO and
the DMC (Health) (para 1.09). Another major change would be the reorganization
of the Family Welfare Bureau. of the PHD. A Central Coordinating Office (CCO)
consisting of three Cells wcould be created. One Cell would be for Training,
another for MIES and the third for IEC. Three Family Welfare Bureaux would
also be created under the CCO for the city, eastern and western suburbs. Each
Bureau would be in charge of 40-50 HPs, and be headed by a AHO. A DEHO would
supervise the work of these Bureaus in addition to the work of the upgraded
Family Planning Hospital, and the coordination with PVOs. A second DEHO would
supervise the work of the three Cells and coorrinitte other programs for TB,
leprosy and malaria.



- 20 -
3.10    The management capacity of family welfare implementation agencies would
be strengthened for both Tamil Nadu and Madras city (para 1.21). At the state
level Steering and Empowered Committees would be established for overall
policy guidance under the control of the Chief Secretary. The Steering
Committee would include representation of all Ministri3s/Departments involved
in the Family Welfare program. Project Implementation Committees would also be
established at the Corporation and Chingleput District levels chaired by the
Commissioner of the MMC and Collector of Chingleput respectively. The DOHFW
would be in charge of project implementation and would be strengthened through
the establishment of five specialized Cells for Training, MIES, IEC, Grants,
and Planning and Administration. As in Bombay, these Cells would concentrate
on developing training programs and materials, MIES, IEC and effective
liaison/cooperation with PVOs and PMPs.  The Madras District Family Welfare
Bureau would also be strengthened through the creation of similar Cells which
would concentrate on program implementation in the Madras Corporation. Tamil
Nadu, MMC and BMC have designated key staff for the reorganized management
structures. During negotiations, Tamil Nadu, MMC and BMC provided assurances
that additional staff at the appropriate levels would be appointed and
maintained substantially in accordance with Annex 9.
3.11         Monitoring and Evaluation.  The management capacity of the Public
Health Department in Bombay and the Tamil Nadu State Family Welfare Bureau
would be improved by the creation and/or strengthening of MIES Cells to develop
and implement monitoring and evaluation programs. MIES will replace the
presently time-consuming methods of collecting and analyzing performance data
and also provide a management tool through which the data compiled to monitor
performance can be promptly analyzed and fed back to managers for action (para
1.23). The Cells would concentrate on the development of system-wide infor-
mation bases to include statistics for FW, MCH, and EPI. Use of annual
household and baseline surveys would be a central feature of their activities.
The Cells are also expected to develop follow-up, eligible couple and child
health registers. The MIES system introduced in Bombay would be consistent
with that used by Maharashtra. In Tamil Nadu, a similar degree of consistency
between state and municipal MIES will be sought. Following preparation of MIES
plans by the Cell, implementation would be preceded by a period of orientation
and training for staff about new procedures and technology. This activity will
be phased. In Bombay, it would commence with the staff of the MIES Cells,
followed by staff at the three Family Welfare Bureaux and Ward Offices, and
finally with the staff from other service delivery institutions. In Tamil Nadu,
the staff of the DOHFW, Chingleput district family welfare office, and MMC's
family welfare program including the zonal officers would be trained.  Periodic
refresher training would be conducted to help overcome normal difficulties in
implementation.  A draft MIES plan is outlined in Annex 11.
3.12    Studies. The monitoring and evaluation programs also necessitate that a
number of studies be undertaken. To make quantitative assessments of program
achievements, the project makes provision for an initial baseline survey and a
final survey.  Baseline survey results will include data on fertility and
infant mortality, the use of contraception, desire for additional children, the
extent of maternal and child health care, including immunization, and the
source of services and the ability and willingness to pay for these services.
The findings of the initial baseline survey and final survey will be important



- 21 -
instruments for final project evaluation. Terms of reference for the baseline
survey and a schedule for its conduct are given in Annex 12. To complement the
statistical approach of the baseline survey, in the first year of the project a
qualitative assessment would be made of needs and preferences of slum dwellers
in order to better understand the determinants of their behavior regarding
family size. Terms of reference for this study and a schedule for its conduct
are also shown in Annex 12. The initial study would be followed by further
assessments to permit evaluation of behavioral attitudes and their modifica-
tion. Assisted by this study, training and IEC activities would complement the
outreach program and put it in a stronger position to determine priorities and
actions for the more effective use of resources. In order to assess the
training needs and potential of PMPs to assist in the achievement of overall
program objectives, a detailed analysis of private practice in low income areas
would be undertaken and should assist in determining private sector potential
(para 3.15). Funds would also be provided under the project for the conduct of
a series of smaller and quicker studies by the MIES Cells or local consultants
to provide answers in an immediate way to program managers. This operational
research is designed to be flexibly implemented. Finally, because the Bombay
and Tamil Nadu are pursuing strategies which vary, a longitudinal study of the
performance in both cities would be undertaken. Tamil Nadu, MMC and BMC have
appointed their respective MIES committees and consultants and finalized terms
of reference for the baseline, PMP and beneficiary studies. During
negotiations, Tamil Nadu, MMC and BMC provided assurances that they would
prepare and submit to IDA an annual evaluation plan by January 31 of each
year. Tamil Nadu, MMC and BMC also provided assurances that they would
complete and submit to IDA the baseline surveys by June 30, 1989, and the
beneficiary study by March 31, 1989.
3.13    Information. Education and Communication (IEC).  Another important
element in improving the management of the Family Welfare program in urban
areas is the development of an IEC capability so that resources can be effec-
tively targeted at beneficiaries, and programs implemented to meet the
differentiated needs of the segmented urban clientele (para 1.22). All of this
would only be possible if the slum dwellers are aware of the facilities and
services available to them, and the benefits which will accrue to them from
availing themselves of family planning and maternal and child health services.
Under the project, IEC Cells would be established in both Bombay and Tamil
Nadu's DOHFW to develop IEC programs specifically geared to slum populations
(para 3.11). Mass media facilities for preparation and delivery of information
are well developed in Bombay and Madras. A departure from traditional
approaches to promotion of family welfare will be stressed. A new generation
of materials which are better designed and pre-tested to respond to client
perceptions will be created, more responsibility given to the private sector,
particularly PVOs working in family welfare, and inter-personal communications
emphasized. A major function of the outreach teams will be to provide
information and to use the intimacy of contact at the family level to affect
behavior patterns regarding maternal and child health and family planning
acceptance. Training in communications and behavioral and social sciences will
be given to the members of the outreach teams to enhance their ability to
interact with their clients. To provide the necessary flexibility required by
programs which attempt to change attitudes and behavior, program activities
will be developed on an annual basis. During negotiations, Tamil Nadu, MMC and
BMC provided assurances that they would complete and furnish to IDA annual IEC



- 22 -
plans no later than January 31 of each year. An outline of the content of an
IEC plan for the first year of the project for both cities is outlined in Annex
13. The project would support improvemer.ts in the management of family welfare
programs in Bombay and Tamil Nadu by financing furniture, equipment, local
consultants, and the salaries of additional staff, operation and maintenance
costs and consumable materials on a declining scale.
E. PVO and Private Practitioner Participation (Proposed outlay USS6.01
million)
3.14      To increase the participation of PVOs and PMPs in the Family Welfare
Program, Bombay will undertake a number of actions. First, nine HPs would be
developed by PVOs under revised grant-in-aid procedures. The identified PVOs
are presently operating UFWCs which would be converted to HPs with the
appropriate compliment of staff. Second, the training of FVHWs would be
contracted to Nirmala Niketan, Apanalaya, and Streehitakarni, PVOs which
already possess expertise in this area. Third, staff of the IEC Cell will
collaborate with the Family Planning Association of India, a PVO, on the design
and delivery of materials for workers and clients to be used in the IEC
program. Although estimates indicate that there are large numbers of PMPs in
Bombay, little is known about their current knowledge, attitudes and practices
relating to family welfare, particularly their recommendations of the use of
IUCDs, oral pills and condoms. Accordingly, Bombay would conduct a needs
assessment surveys of PMPs as a basis for the design and implementation of
training programs to upgrade the clinical skills of about 2,000 private
practitioners. The assessment will be carried out in collaboration with ward-
level affiliates of the Indian Medical Association and the training will be
provided by the Departments of Continuing Medicine in the PSMs. Supplies of
IUCDs, oral pills and condoms will be provided to participating practitioners.
This is in keeping with the on-going GOI program (para 2.08).
3.15      PVO participation would be increased in Madras by assisting 13 PVOs
to develop and operate 18 HPs. The staffing pattern as established by GOI
would be provided, but the PVOs could be flexible in their approach, and within
the limits of the funds provided, could augment the staff if they wished. In
addition, Madras proposes to establish a scheme through which PVOs will receive
support for developing innovative approaches to expanding family welfare
services in slum areas. This would include the training of voluntary workers,
promoting women's education and employment in slum areas, as well as the
operation of family welfare clinics and outreach programs. The Tamil Nadu
government has provided a detailed plan acceptable to IDA of the Innovative
Scheme proposal showing sub-project selection criteria, administrative
procedures, and evaluation/supervision mechanisms. Tamil Nadu will also
increase PMP participation in the Madras area, and as in Bombay, will conduct a
need assessment survey of PMPs. This study would be conducted by an
appropriate research institution and the training of approximately 500 PMP
carri'ed out by the Teaching Hospitals. Supplies of IUCDs, oral pills and
condoms would be provided to participating PMPs. During negotiations, Tamil
Nadu and BMC provided an assurance that they would complete their respective
PMP needs assessment surveys by March 31, 1989. Bombay and Madras have already
identified the PVOs which will operate the HPs (Annex 14) under the grant-in-
aid mechanism. The revised grant-in-aid procedures were reviewed during
appraisal and found acceptable.The project would support increased PVO and PMP



- 23 .
participation in the urban family welfare program by financing civil works,
equipment, furniture, vehicles, and the salaries of additional staff,
consumable materials and operation and maintenance costs on a declining scale,
as well as the fees associated with contracting PVOs to undertake training and
IEC programs.
IV. PROJECT COST. FINANCING. IMPLEMENTATION AND DISBURSEMENTS
A.   Costs
4.01      Summaries of Costs.  The total cost of the project, including duties
and taxes, is estimated at about Rs. 1,172.04 million or US$78.21 million
equivalent. Detailed costs of the project by component, categories of expendi-
ture, city, and time are given in Annex 15. The breakdown of local and foreign
costs of the project by component and categories of expenditure is summarized
in Tables 4.1 and 4.2.
4.02      Basis of Cost Estimates.  Estimated costs for civil works are based
on current unit cost for construction in urban metropolitan areas which is
equivalent to about US$23 per sq. ft. of gross floor area of construction.
These costs are reasonable for comparable Bank-assisted construction in India
as well as other countries of the region. Costs of professional services for
design and top supervision of construction reflect the scale of fees
established for similar services provided by local architectural consulting
firms. Cost of on-site supervision reflects the standard establishment charges
of the PWD and the Engineering Departments of BMC and MMC. Estimated equipment
and vehicle costs are products of lists developed by GOI and were reviewed
during appraisal and include import duties and taxes. Furniture and consumable
material costs are based on GOI estimates and reflect current prices.
Estimated costs for the salaries of additional staff are based on Bombay, Tamil
Nadu and Madras basic pay scales including standard allowances for social and
other benefits.



- 24 -
Table 4.1: Costs by Component
Rupee (Million)           USS (Million)      % of Base
Component         Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total  Costs
Service Delivery
Expansion   501.39  31.01   532.40   37.70   2.33    40.03   66.4
Quality Improve-
ment (Training)   38.63   4.54    43.17    2.91   0.34        3.25    5.3
Management
Improvement      140.00   7.48   147.48   10.52   0.56    11.08   18.4
PVO and Private
Practitioners      75.31   4.62    79.93    5.66   0.35       6.01    9.9
Base Costs         755.33  47.65   802.98   56.79   3.58    60.37  100.0
Contingencies
Physical           51.89   4.58    56.47    3.90   0.35      4.25    7.0
Price             301.78  10.81   312.59   13.26   0.33    13.59   22.5
Subtotal           353.67  15.39   369.06   17.16   0.68    17.84   29.5
TOTAL PROJECT
COSTS           1109.00  63.04  1172.04   73.95   4.26    78.21  129.5
Table 4.2:  Costs by Categories of Expenditure
Category             Rupee (Million)  -        USS (Million)      % of Base
of Expenditure    Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total  Costs
Civil Works         69.14   8.49   77.63    5.20    0.64    5.84    9.7
Professional Fees  11.01    -      11.01    0.83      -       0.83    1.4
Furniture           11.67   1.14   12.81    0.88    0.08    0.96    1.6
Equipment           52.80   7.14   59.94    3.97    0.54    4.51    7.5
Vehicles             7.14   0.70    7.84    0.54    0.05    0.59    1.0
Books                0.01    -      0.01      -       -        -       -
Local Experts       30.39    -     30.39    2.28      -       2.28    3.8
Fellowships         16.50   3.82   20.32    1.24    0.29    1.53    2.5
Staff Salaries    425.84    -    425.84   32.02       -     32.02   53.0
Consumable
Materials          98.06  24.34  122.40    7.37    1.83    9.20   15.2
Operation and
Maintenance        32.77   2.02   34.79    2.46    0.15    2.61    4.3
Base Costs         755.33  47.65  802.98   56.79    3.58   60.37  100.0
Contingencies
Physical           51.89   4.58   56.47    3.90    0.35    4.25    7.0
Price            301.78  10.81  312.59   13.26    0.33   13.59   22.5
Subtotal          353.67  15.39  369.06   17.16    0.68   17.84   29.5
TOTAL PROJECT
COSTS           1109.00  63.04 1172.04   73.95    4.26   78.21  129.5
NOTES:  Subtotals may not add to totals due to rounding.
Costs include taxes and duties.



- 25 -
4.03      Customs Duties and Taxes.  All imported goods are subject to customs
duties and taxes. The cost of the project includes import duties and taxes
estimated at about US$1.31 million.
4.04      Contingency Allowances.  Estimated project costs include physical
contingencies (US$4.25 million) estimated at 10% of all physical components and
at 5% for salaries and technical assistance. The estimated costs of the
project also include price contingencies (US$13.59 million) to cover expected
price escalation at the following rates. For civil works, goods, salaries, and
technical assistance--foreign costs: 3.0% in FY88, 1.0% in FY89 through FY91,
and 3.5% in FY92 through FY95; local cost: 8.0% in FY88 and FY89, 7.0% in FY90,
and 6.0% in FY91 through FY95.
4.05      Foreign Exchange Component.  The estimated foreign exchange component
of US$4.26 million representing about 5.05% of estimated total project costs,
has been calculated on the basis of estimated foreign exchange proportions as
follows: (a) civil works 11%; (b) furniture 9%; (c) locally produced equipment
12%; (d) locally produced vehicles 9%; (e) international fellowships 90%; (f)
locally produced consumable material 20%; (g) operation and maintenance of
vehicles at 10%; and (h) other operation and maintenance costs at 5%.
B.   Financing Plan
4.06      The total project cost of US$78.21 million would be financed by the
proposed IDA credit of US$57.0 million equivalent, which would cover about
74.1% of costs net of taxes. The GOI would finance the remaining net costs of
US$19.90 million and all taxes. The financing plan by project component and by
categories of expenditure is outlined in Annex 16.
C.   Recurrent Cost Implications
4.07      The Family Welfare program is funded almost entirely by the  OI (para
2.09). Under the Urban Revamping Scheme, GOI would cover 90% of the recurrent
and investment cost of project in Bombay and Tamil Nadu. When fully
operational in 1995, the project would generate about Rs.221.58 million
(US$14.11 million) annually in recurrent costs (Annex 17, Table 1). These
expenditures if borne fully by GOI would cover only about 1.95% of the total
family welfare budget which is projected to be about Rs. 11,360 million
(US$724.0 million) in 1995, if the growth of the budget and expenditures
continue at about 10% per annum which is even less than rates of about 25% per
annum (para 2.09). In 1995, the recurrent costs of the project in Bombay would
be about Rs.115.10 million (US$7.33 million), while in Tamil Nadu (Madras City
and suburban municipalities and townships) it would be about Rs.106.49 million
(US$6.78 million). Since Bombay and Tamil Nadu would only have to cover 10% of
these costs, the impact of the recurrent cost on projected family welfare
budgets would only be 0.73% in Bombay and 1.93% in Tamil Nadu. These are
reasonable levels and are not expected to be problematic for either Tamil Nadu
or Bombay.



- 26 -
D.   Status of Preparation
4.08      Design and Construction of Health Posts.  Standard designs for the
construction of HPs in Bombay and schedules of accommodations of HPs in Madras
have been prepared and were reviewed during appraisal. These designs and
schedules are consistent with approved government standards for HP construc-
tion. In Bombay, the Engineering Department for Slum Improvement would be
responsible for the design and supervision of civil works, In Madras, the PWD
of Tamil Nadu would be responsible for the design and supervision of HPs
located in the townships and municipalities. Consultant architects have been
appointed to design and to provide top-supervision of the HPs located within
the MMC, while the Engineering Department of the Corporation would tender and
provide the on-site supervision of civil works.
4.09      Sites.  Most of the sites for new HPs have been identified.  All of
the new HPs in Bombay would be located on BMC owned land. In Madras, the
majority of lIPs would be constructed as expansions of existing municipal health
facilities. However, in some of the more densely populated areas, private land
may have to be acquired. The annual construction programs (Annex 8) gives
priority to those HPs where the land is already available.
4.10      Furniture. Equipment. Vehicle and Consumable Material lists have been
prepared and were reviewed during appraisal.
4.11      Terms of Reference for local consultants and studies including the
baseline survey, beneficiary preferences and needs, private medical
practitioners, and MIES have been drafted and discussed with officials in
Bombay, Tamil Nadu and Madras. Preparatory work has also been completed by
local institutions for the conduct of these studies.
4.12      Given the status of preparation, the capacity of the MOHFW and the
staffs of the PHDs in Bombay, Madras and Tamil Nadu, it is expected that by
Credit Effectiveness (estimated August 1988), sufficient work would be
completed on the first year training program, IEC, MIES, and IEC activities,
and the construction program, that project activities can proceed
expeditiously.
E.   Project Management
4.13      The MOHFW has a division which is responsible for coordinating and
mnnitoring the implementation of all externally-aided projects and its repre-
sentatives regularly attend project Governing Council and Steering Committee
meetings. These arrangements have proved satisfactory in previous IDA assisted
projects. The committee system has also proved to be effective in directing
attention to project objectives and issues, resolving difficulties, and
ensuring effective coordination of the various concerned Departments.
4.14      In Bombay, a Steering Committee will be established comprising
representatives of GOI, BMC, State and PVOs, and chaired by the Additional
Municipal Commissioner. The Steering Committee will meet regularly to review
project progress, ensure effective coordination and resolve problems. In
Madras a Steering Committee under the Chairmanship of the Chief Secretary,
Tamil Nadu would be set up. This would include the Planning, Finance and



- 27 -
Health Secretaries, the Corporation Commissioner, the Collector, Chingleput,
and the Chief Engineer, PWD, among others. In addition to this Committee, an
Empowered Committee would also be established under the Chairmanship of the
Chief Secretary with the Secretaries of Personnel and Administration, Finance,
Planning and Health as members. Project Implementation Committees (PICs) under
the Chairmanship of the Commissioner, MMC, and the Collector, Chingleput, would
also be established. The former would include the Project Coordinator, the
DFWMO, the AHO(CWS), the HO, the 4 DDFWMOs in charge of the four Cells, the
Administrative Officer and the OSD. The Chingleput PIC would have the
Municipal Commissioners, the Executive Officers, PA Development to the
Collector, Health Officers from each Municipality/Township and the OSD as
members.
4.15      Building on existing institutions and following previous GOI/IDA
project implementation practice, responsibility for project management will be
vested in the respective Project Coordinators. In Bombay, the Project
Coordinator will have the rank of Deputy Municipal Commissioner and will be
responsible to the Additional Municipal Commissioner. In Madras, the State
Director of Family Welfare would be the Project Director and would be respon-
sible to the Secretary of the Department of Health and Family Welfare. He/she
would be assisted by an Officer on Special Duty (OSD) who would coordinate the
work of the voluntary agencies, medical institutions and the municipalities and
townships. In the MMC, the project would be managed by a Project Coordinator
who would work under the supervision of the Corporation Commissioner and would
report to the Project Director. Organograms of project organization for Bombay
and Tamil Nadu/Madras are given in Charts 3 and 4 respectively. Tamil Nadu,
MMC and BMC have already appointed or designated Project Coordinators. Project
Coordinators will prepare monthly progress reports for the Steering Committees,
and based on these reports, prepare Quarterly Progress Reports for submission
to GOI and IDA. During negotiations, Tamil Nadu, MMC and BMC provided
assurances that they would conduct a mid-term review of project performance,
including management, beneficiary, PVO and PMP assessments, in the third year
of the project, under terms of reference acceptable to IDA; and that the
review's findings and recommendations, together with proposed Action Plans to
address constraints, would be furnished to the Association for review and
discussion not later than December 31, 1992.
F.   Disbursements
4.16      Disbursement Percentages.  The Credit would cover 74.1% of the total
project costs net of taxes, and finance 100% of expenditures on local and
foreign fellowships and local experts; 85% of expenditures on professional fees
and civil works; 100% of CIF and of ex-factory cost or 85% of expenditures on
furniture, equipment, vehicles and books purchased otherwise; and an average of
about 67.2% of total expenditures on operational costs such as salaries of
additional staff, operation and maintenance costs, and consumable materials.
Since these costs would be financed on a declining scale, the disbursement
percentages would be as follows: FY89 at 100%, FY90 and FY91 at 90%, FY92 at
80%, FY93 at 70%, FY94 at 60%, and FY95 at 45%.
4.17      Reguired Documentation.  Disbursements in respect of local expendi-
tures, direct foreign expenditures, arLd contracts for civil works, goods and
services estimated to cost less than US$100,000 equivalent would be made



- 28 -
against statements of expenditure certified by MOHFW and the respective Project
Coordinators. Documentation would be retained by the MOHFW and the cities and
made available for review by IDA during the course of supervision missions.
All other disbursement would be made against fully-documented withdrawal
applications. All requests for disbursements from the IDA credit would be
channeled through the MOHFW.
4.18      Special Account.  In order to accelerate disbursements in respect of
the IDA's share of expenditures prefinanced by GOI, and in order to allow for
direct payment of other eligible local and foreign expenditures, a Special
Account would be opened in the Reserve Bank of India with an initial deposit of
US$3.0 million equivalent to four months' expected requirements for IDA-
financed items.
4.19      Retroactive Financing up to US$1.0 million is recommended to cover
eligible expenditures after November 1, 1987 for costs incurred in implementing
appraised project activities.
4.20      Disbursement Profile.  The proposed Credit would be disbursed over a
seven-year period. This is realistic given the design and institutional
development activities of the project. The appraisal mission carefully
evaluated the capacity of all projact institutions to effectively implement
their programs in a timely manner. Specific emphasis and analysis was given to
the implementation of the civil works and outreach programs, and the capacity
of the PWD and Engineering Departments and Family Welfare Bureaus in Bombay,
Madras City and Tamil Nadu to implement them. Project duration therefore
encompasses not only the time required for the physical completion of various
components but also includes an operational period where impact of the service
delivery, training, IEC and management reorganization elements of the project
can be observed and measured. The project is expected to be completed on June
30, 1995, and the Credit closed on December 31, ' 5. A forecast of annual
expenditures and disbursement is shown in Annex 18. The standard profile for
population projects in Asia is nine years. However, several recent population
projects in India; Credits 312 and 981 (para 2.12) have been implemented in
seven years. The design of the project, status of preparation and the measures
taken to expedite procurement and disbursement reinforce the justification for
a seven-year disbursement profile.
G.   Procurement
4.21      Procurement arrangements are summarized in Table 4.3.  Contracts for
civil works (US$7.38 million) including the construction of 30 HPs in Bombay,
and 58 HPs and 18 zonal offices in Madras, would be carried out on the basis of
local bidding procedures which ensure adequate competition, encourage
efficiency and do not restrict participation of foreign contractors. It is,
however, estimated that during the period of implementation, about 60 contracts
would be awarded and most of these would be too small to be of interest to
foreign firms. It is estimated that the value of individual contracts would
range between US$70,000 to US$230,000 equivalent. Civil works contracts
exceeding US$100,000 would be subject to prior review and approval by IDA.
4.22      Contracts for furniture (US$1.22 million) would be let through LCB
procedures, which are acceptable to IDA. All furniture is available from local



- 29 -
manufacturers and foreign firms are unlikely to bid. Contracts for the
purchase of furniture estimated to cost less than the equivalent of US$25,000
may be awarded on the basis of prudent shopping, with solicitation of price
quotations from at least three suppliers.
4.23      Contracts for eguiDment. vehicles and books (US$6.35 million)
estimated to cost the equivalent of US$200,000 or more each will be awarded on
the basis of ICB. Contracts for the purchase of equipment below US$200,000
equivalent each, may be awarded on the basis of LCB. Contracts for the
purchase of equipment below US$25,000 equivalent may be awarded on the basis of
prudent shopping, with solicitation of price quotations from at least three
suppliers. For equipment procured under ICB, 15% preference or the prevailing
import duties whichever is lower would be accorded to local manufacturers of
equipment.
Table 4.3: Procurement Method
Categories of                 USS Millions              NA       Total
Expenditure            ICB       LCB        Other                Cost
Civil Works and                  7.38       1.06
Professional Fees               (6,28)    (0.90)                 8.44
1.22
Furniture                       (1.04)                           1.22
2.00       3.64
Equipment & Books   (1.70)      (3.09)                           5.64
0.71
Vehicles                         (0.60)                          0.71
Local                                                   2.85
Consultants                                             (2.85)   2.85
1.89
FellowshiRs                                             (1.89)  _1.89
Salaries of                                            41.76
Additional Staff                                       (28.11)  41.76
Consumable                      12.15
Materials                       (8.16)                          12.15
3.55
O&M Costs                       (2.38)                           3.55
TOTAL                 2.00      28.65      1.06       46.50    78.21
IDA                   1.70      21.55      0.90       32.85    57.00
GOI                   0.30       7.10      0.16       13.65    21.21
Note: Figures in parentheses represent IDA financing.
H.   Accounting and Auditing
4.24      The project would be subject to normal GOI accounting and auditing
procedures which are considered satisfactory to IDA. The Project Coordinators
would maintain separate project accounts, which would be inspected regularly by



- 30 -
accounts staff from MOHFW, and a quarterly statement of expenditures provided
to IDA. During negotiations, the GOI, Tamil Nadu and BMC provided assurances
that: (a) accounts and financial statements for each fiscal year would be
prepared and audited by independent auditors acceptable to IDA; (b) statements
of expenditures would be maintained in accordance with sound accounting
practices, be maintained at least one year after the completion of the audit
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal was made and a separate
opinion on SOEs be included in the annual audit; and (c) certified copies of
the audited accounts and financial statements for each fiscal year, together
with the Auditor's Report would be furnished to IDA as soon as available, but
not later than nine months after the end of each fiscal year. All of the
outstanding audited accounts of Credits 981-IN, 1426-IN and 1623-IN have been
received by IDA.
V. BENEFITS AND RISKS
5.01      Benefits. The proposed project would directly benefit low income
families, particularly about 1.6 millior. women and about 0.9 million children.
Wider acceptance of family planning would have important benefits for the
health of both mothers and children. Increasing the birth spacing interval can
significantly decrease infant mortality because mothers are stronger during
pregnancy and lactation and infants are born with higher birth weights. The
benefits of family planning are not limited to improvements in maternal health,
for access to contraception gives couples greater freedom of choice and, for
women, more control over their own futures. Priority interventions including
ante-natal care, identification of high risk pregnancies, institutional
delivery for all pregnancies, and immunization will have a significant impact
on mother and child survival.
5.02      While project investments would immediately benefit the poor of both
cities, the inputs are designed to contribute to greater understanding of
population and health issues and programs among the urban poor throughout
India. Other large Indian cities facing the same service delivery constraints
will be well-served by the experiences of this project. Designed to deliver a
manageable package of family welfare interventions in poor communities and meet
priority needs, the project will develop outreach, management, and supervision
systems which could be models elsewhere. Forging an effective collaborative
partnership with PVOs to share community responsibilities and _-ndertaking to
strengthen other private sector contributions to family welfare targets would
provide experience in effective government/private sector collaboration. The
project will be IDA's first experience in implementing a major multi-faceted
family welfare program in a poor urban environment, and will contribute to an
understanding of social and sectoral issues arising as a result of rapid
urbanization. Insignts gained through the project could have significant
impact on future sectoral investments for family welfare and health services in
an urban setting.
5.03      Risks.  There are several risks in the project.  The major ones are
institutional and related to the ability of the two municipal governments to
implement the project, particularly to develop effective outreach services in
the slum areas and to coordinate productively with PVOs, whose capacities are
also not strong. To minimize these risks, the municipal health and family
welfare departments will be strengthened under the project to achieve effective



- 31 -
project management and implementation, and subsequent satisfactory operation
and maintenance of project facilities. In addition, annual action plans for
critical elements of the program will provide a mechanism for adjustment in
project implementation and offer the opportunity for review.
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED
6.01      During negotiations, Tamil Nadu, MMC and BMC provided assurances that
they would:
(a) prepare and transmit to IDA (i) annual construction programs
substantially in accordance with Annex 8 (para 3.06); (ii) annual
training plans substantially in accordance with Annex 10 (para 3.10);
(iii) annual monitoring and evaluation plans (para 3.12); and (iv)
annual IEC plans substantially in accordance with Annex 13 (para
3.13); by January 31 of each year;
(b) appoint staff for HP operation, outreach, and system management at
levels and according to a schedule substantially in accordance with
Annex 9 (paras 3.07 and 3.11);
(c) complete beneficiary needs surveys and private practitioner needs
assessment by March 31, 1989 and baseline surveys by June 30, 1989
(paras 3.15); and
(d) conduct a mid-term review of project performance, including manage-
ment, beneficiary and PVO and PMIP assessments, in the third year of
the project, under terms acceptable to IDA; and review the findings
and recommendations, together with their proposed action plans to
address constraints, with IDA no later than December 31, 1992 (para
4.15).
6.02      GOI, Tamil Nadu, MMC and BMC also provided assurances during
negotiations that they would:
(a) prepare and have audited by independent auditors acceptable to IDA,
accounts and financial statements for the project for each fiscal
year; maintain statements of expenditure according to sound
accounting practices, retain them for at least one year after
completion of the audit for the fiscal year in which the last
withdrawal was made, and include a separate opinion on them in the
annual audit; and furnish copies of these accounts to IDA as soon as
possible, but not later than nine months after the end of each fiscal
year (para. 4.24).
6.03      Subject to the above conditions and assurances, the proposed project
constitutes a suitable basis for an IDA Credit of SDR 41.0 million (US$57.0
million equivalent) to India at standard IDA terms with 35 years maturity.



-32-
ANNEX I
Page 1
INDIA
FIFTH (BOMBAY AND MADRAS) POPULATION PROJECT
Table 1: Population Size and Growth. 1961-1987
YEAR         CENSUS        DECADAL        AVG. ANNUAL
POPULATION      CHANGE         GROWTH RATE
(Millions)
India
1961         439.1
1971          548.2          24.9                2.2
1981          6852           25.0                2.2
1987 *        790.1
Greater Bombay
1961            4.2
1971            6.0          43.8                3.7
1981            8.2          37.9                3.2
1987 *         10.1
Madras CorRoration
1961            1.7
1971            2.5          42.8                3.6
1981            3.3          32.7                2.8
1987 *          3.9
Areas of Chengalpattu District included ln Greater Madras
1971            0.42
1981            0.71         70.3                5.4
Sources Census of India
* Projected mid-year population.



-33-                          ANNEX 1
Page 2
Table 2: Demographic Data. India. Bombay. Madras 1971-1987
YEAR          CBR            CDR           IMR            ECPR
IDIA
1971          37             15            129            11
1981          34             13            110            23
1982          34             12            105            24
1983          34             12            105            26
1984          34             12            104            29
1985          33             12             95            32
1986         na             na             na             35
1987         na              ia             na            38
Greater Bombay
1971          27              9             /9            na
1981          27              8             61            43
1982          23              8             65            44
1983          23              8             66            44
1984          23              8             62           41
1985         22               8             63           45
1986          25              9             62            45
1987         na             na             na             44
Madras CorRotation
1972         38              13             85           na
1981         31               9             59           na
1982         30               8            47            na
1983         30               9             52           na
1984         30               8            47            42
1985        28                8            46            44
1986        27                8            46            47
Source:  Family Welfare Year Books: Bombay-GBMC, Public Health Department,
Madras Corporation, Public Health Department.



-34-                        ANNEX 1
Page 3
Table 3: Population Proiections. India. Bombay. Madras: 1985-1995
YEAR         INDIA    GREATER BOMBAY   MADRAS CORP.        GREATER MADRAS
(Millions)
1985          765          9.4                3.7               4.6
1990          844         11.1                4.2               5.4
1995          920         13.0                4.9               6.3
Source: World Bank projections.
FP:vs



-35-                          ANNEX 2
page 1
INDIA
FIFTH (BOMBAY AND MADRAS) POPULATION PROJECT
Table 1: Contraceptive Prevalence Rates in Slum Areas of Bombay (1984)
Sterilization  IUD  CC  Orals  CPR   ECPR
City Slum                             25        4     4    1    34       32
Khar (Western Suburbs)                41        3      3    2    49      47
Boribili (Western Suburbs)            17        1      -    3    21      21
Kandivili (Western Suburbs)           12        -      1    1    14      14
Seven Village (East Suburbs)          42        2     3    2    50       48
Chembur (Eastern Suburbs)             29        -     1    1    31       31
Source: Project proposal.



-36-
ANNEX 2
Page 2
Table 2: Survey of Bombay Slums
Extended
CityX   Suburbs      Suburbs       Total
Birth rate                        27.2     31.65          26         28.35
Family Size                        3.8      5.2            5.6        5.5
Male/Female Ratio                 54/46    54/46          56/44       55/45
Reigion:  Hindu                   69%       53%           75%         65%
Muslim                  25%      43%            25%        31%
Christian               1%       1%            NIL         1%
Others                  5%       3%            NIL         3%
Literacy rate                     55%       53%             NA
Family Planning:
Sterilization       24%        22%           32%         26%
Other Methods           20%       22%            21%        21%
All Methods             44%       44%            53%        46%
Births:
Institutional          90%        82%           90%         87%
Home                    10%       18%            10%        13%
Causes of Death:
Respiratory & Fever    40%        34%            25%        33%
T.B.                    20%       10%            18%        16%
C.V.S.                  10%       10%            10%        10%
Stomach ailments       10%        10%           22%         14%
Others(Acc.Cancer
Cirhosis)               20%       36%            25%        27%
Morbidity (Total)                  8%        8%             3%          7%
Important Causes:
Respiratory & Fever    26%        26%            22%        25%
Stomach ailments       10         15              8         11
T.B.                    12        1.7             3          5
Malnutrition in Children          25%       27%            20%         24%
Place of treatment:
Municipal           45%        55%           27%         42%
Govt. Inst.             12%                                  6%
Private Inst.          41%        42%           67%         50%
Immunization completed (under
5 years).                         52%       43%            60%        52%
Source:  Project proposal: GBMC.



-37-                               ANNEX 2
Page 3
Iable 3: Survey of Ten Madras City Slums (1985)
Ten Slums        Madras Corporation
Sex Ratio                                     969                979(1981 Census)
Birth Rate                                     31.5                28
Age at Marriage
Male                                      24.3 years           NA
Female                                    16.9 years           NA
Contraceptive Prevalence:
Sterilization                             26.3%                39.5(1985-86)
IUD                                      .3%                 5.6
Conventional Contraceptives                 .1                  1.6
Oral Contraceptives                         .2                   .6
TOTAL                                  26.9%                47.3%
Religion:
Hindu                                     80%                   NA
Muslim                                    13%                   NA
Christian                                  7%                   NA
Other                                     -                     NA
Literacy:
Male                                      47%                   76%
Female                                    32%                   61%
Total                                     40%                   68%
Source: Project Projposal: MMC
Census of India.



-38-                              ANNEX 3
INDIA
FIFTH (BOMBAY AND MADRAS) POPULATION PROJECT
Family Welfare Service Statistics
(1982/83-1986/87)
1982-83  1983-84  1984-85  1985-86  1986-87
INDIA                           -----------------(Millions)----------------
Sterilizations                    3.98      4.53     4.08      4.89     5.02
IUD Insertions                    1.09      2.13     2.56      3.26     3.92
Oral Pills  1/                    0.18      0.72     1.28      1.46     1.76
Conventional Contraceptives  1   5.77       7.66     8.52      9.51     9.71
1982-83  1983-84  1984-85  1985-86  1986-87
GREATER BOMBAY
Sterilizations                   60,375   69,121   59,790   55,900   48,139
IUD Insertions                   20,633   29,136   61,224   35,755   38,543
Oral Pills  1/                    NA        NA       NA        4,433    4,181
Conventional Contraceptives 2]  14,453   15,483   15,709   24,462   16,899
MADRAS (MUNICIPAL CORP.)
Sterilizations                   30,930   45,229   49,360   54,742   59,752
IUD Insertions                    8,713   13,703   24,354   43,844   68,610
Oral Pills 1/                       706       731      707    5,332    6,500
Conventional Contraceptives 2]   NA           171    2,054   13,436   14,667
/  Equivalent annual users;calculated as (number of cycles distributed)/13
2   Equivalent annual users;calculated as (number of pieces distributed)/72
Source: Family Welfare Program in India Year Books, Bombay and Madras Public
Health Departments.



-39-
AN-NEX 4
INDIA
FIFTH (BOMBAY AND MADRAS) POPULATION PROJECT
Seventh Plan Family Planning Targets
A.   Effective Couple Protection Rate                              42%
B.   Crude Birth Rate per Thousand Population                      29.1%
C.   Crude Death Rate per Thousand Population                      10.4%
D.   Infant Mortality Rate per Thousand Population                 90%
E.   Immunization                                             Universal Coverage
F.   Ante Natal Care                                               75%
Reguired AcceRtors If Family-Planning Methods
(Millions)
Year      Sterilizations             IUCDS        CC Users and    Increase in
OP Users        CPR(Percent)
1986          5.50                    3.25            10.5           From 32%
1987          6.00                   3.75             11.5       In April 1985
1988          6.25                   4.25             12.5             to
1989          6.50                   4.75             13.5          42% in
1990          6.75                   5.25             14.5          March 1990
TOTAL        31.00                  21.25



-40-
ANNEX
INDIA
FIFTH (BONBAY AND MADRAS)POPUIATION PROJECT
Sixth and Seventh Plan Outlays- Family Welfare Program
In Million Rupees
Sixth    % of    Seventh    % of   % Increase
Program             Plan      Total   Plan        Total  6th & 7th
Plans
-- - - - - -- - - - - - -- - - -- - -- -- -- -- - - - -- - - - - - - - - - --_- -- -
Service and Supplies         6877      63.8   13569.2    41.7       97
Training                       88       0.8      609.0     1.9    592
Information, Education and
Communication                 320       3.0    1050.0      3.2    228
Research & Evaluation         115       1.1      250.0     0.8    117
Indian Council of Medical
Research.                      -         -        50.0     1.5      -
Maternity and Child Care     2503      23.2    8884.4    27.3    254
Organisation                  195       1.8    1250.0      3.8    541
Village Health Guide Scheme   680       6.3    3700.0    11.4    444
Area Projects                   2       0.2    2750.0      8.4   1275
TOTALS:                     10780    100.0   32562.6   100.0    202
--   - - - - - -  - - - -  - - - -   -- - - -  - - - -  - ---.-     - -



-41-
ANNEX 6
INDIA
FIFTH (BOMBAY AND MADRAS) POPULATION PROJECT
Bilateral and Multilateral Assistance to Health and Family Welfare
Donor     Amount        Period                      Program
WHO    US$30.0 Mn.    1984-87   Bienrnium Program: provision of general
medical supplies equipment, educational
activities, including training of Indian
experts, supporting research projects.
UNICEF  US$29.0 Mn.   1985-90   Support to health programs, particularly
Expanded Proram of Immunization (EPI),
Sexually Transmitted Diseases (STD), Oral
Rehydration (ORT) and Primary Health Care,
support to health worker training, and
provision of vehicles, syringes, needles
and vaccines.
UNFPA  US$167.0 Mn.   1974-90   Promotion of cash and kind to support
Family Welfare Schemes, manufacturing of
contraceptives, development of population
education programs, strengthening program
moanagement, training lower-level Health
Workers, and introducing innovative
approaches in FP and MCH.
US$50.0 Mn.   1980-86   AREA PROJECT: Rajasthan (4 districts),
Bihar (11 districts)
DANIDA  DK.2.0 Mn.               Support to Leprosy Control Program.
US$ 30.0 Mn.  1981-86   AREA PROJECT: Madhya Pradesh (8 dists)  -
Tamil Nadu (2 dists).
ODA  Pd.Stg.170,000      -       Experts to support various health ingti-
tutions.
US$15.2 Mn.      1981-86    AREA PROJECT: ORISSA (5 districts)
SIDA  SK 125.0 Mn.   1984-89    Equipment and other support for TB, Leprosy
and Malaria Control Programs.
NORAD NK.13.0 Mn.    To 1988    Support to post partum program in Urban
and Semi-Urban areas.
USAID  US$ 20.0 Mn.  1981-       Strengthening private and voluntary sector
to expand and improve basic end special
preventive health, family planning and
nutrition programs.
US$33.0 Mn.   1980-86    AREA PROJECT: Punjab(3 dists), Haryana
(3 districts), Himachal Pradesh(3 dists),
Maharashtra (3 districts)
US$47.0 Mn.               Development of a Contraceptive Marketing
Organization.



-42-
ANNEX 7
INDI:
FIFTH (BOMBAY AND MADRAS) POPULATION PROJECT
IDA POPULATIO01 PROJECTS
Credit   Name of  Desc;iption    Effective  Closing  Total   IDA  Disburse-
No.      project                   Date        Date      Project Cre. ment
Dec.'87
(In Millions of US$)
U.P.(6 dists)
Karnataka(5 dists)
CR.312  1st Pop-  a)expansion of    05/73    05/80    --    21.20   21.20
ulation   health infrastruc-
ture; b)provision
of additional supp-
lements and testing
alternative patterns;
c)creation of two
population centres
to design a MIES,
evaluate performance,
and recommend changes;
d)technical assistance;
and e)creation of popu-
lation units in two
established management
institutes.
A.P.(3 districts)
U.P.(6 districts)
CR.981  2nd Pop-  Project was based on  07/80  03/88  96.0  46.0    38.8
ulation   GOI Model Plan(Area
Projects Program).
Included a)construc-
tion of facilities;
b)provision of staff;
c)training; d)IEC;and
e)monitoring and evalua-
tion.
Karnataka(6 dists.)
Kerala(4 dists.)
CR.1426 3rd Pop-  a)Civil works in       05/84    12/90 123.5  70.0    28.5
selected districts
and on broader
state perspective;
b)training; and c)
monitoring & evalua-
tion.
West Bengal(4 dists.)
CR.1623 4th Pop-  a)Civil works in       12/85    12/91  89.9  51.0        5.7
ulation   selected districts
and on a state-wide
basis; b)training;
c)monitoring and
evaluation;d)demand
generation; e)service
delivery, and f)dev-
elopment of a State
Institute of Health
& Family Welfare.



-43-
ANNEX 8
INDIA 
FIFTH (BOMBAY AND MADRAS) POPULATION PROJECT
PHASING OF ESTABLISHMENT AND CONSTRUCTION OF HEALTH POSTS AND PPC
PROJECT YEAR               1      2     3     4      5     6      7     Total
Calendar Year            1989   1990  1991  1992  1993  1994  1995
A. BOMBAY
1. Establishment of
Health Posts.           5       7    18    16    15    15    13       89
2. Construction of
new Health Posts.               5     5     5      5     5      5     30
3. Establishment of PPCs
with Ped. Clinic
and P.B.W.s.            1       1     2     2      3     2            11
4. Establishment of
PVO/H.Posts.            2      3      2     2                          9
TOTALS                  8       16    27    25    23    22    18    139
PHASING OF CONSTRUCTION OF HEALTH POST/MAT.WARO/OPER.THEATER AND OF
ZONAL OFFICES
B. MADRAS
1. Health Posts
i) Construction in
urban areas.               7       8     20     5    2              42
ii) Construction of
PVO/HP                     2       2      1      1                   6
iii) Construction in
suburban areas.            3       3      3      1                  10
TOTALS                           12     13     24       7     2           58
2. ZONAL OFFICES                  5       5    10        5                25



-44-
ANNE 9
Page 1
INDIA
FIFTH (BOMBAY AND MADRAS) POPULATION PROJECT
Schedule of ARoointment of Key Additional Staff
Institutions/          Total   1988  1989  1990  1991  1992  1993  1994
Type of Staff         to be
appoin-
ted
A. Bombay
Central Coordination Office
Dep. Municipal Commissioner      1       1
Additional EHO                   1       1
Deputy EHO                       2       2
Administrative Officer           1       1
MIS Cell
Administrative Officer           1       1
Sr. Statistical Officer          1       1
Statisticians                    3       3
Systems Analyst                  1       1
Training Cell
Asst. Medical Officer
(Training Officer)              1      1
Training Supervisors             3       1     2
IEC Cell
Public Relations Officer         1       1
Artist                           1             1
Photographer                     1             1
Deputy Public Relations Officer 1        1
Projectionist                    3       1     2
Commentator                      1             1
Health Posts *
Doctors                        150       7    19    29      27    25   26    17
Public Health Nurses           150       7    19    29      27    25   26    17
Multipurpose Worker (male)    600       28    76   116    108   100  104    68
Auxiliary Nurse Midwives/
MPW (female)                  600      28    76   116    108   100  104    68
Female Volunteer Health
Workers                      3740    175   475   725    675   625  650   425
Family Welfare Bureaux
Jr. Medical Offi_er of Health  23        5    10    10       3
Medical Social Worker           23       5    10    10       3
* Including Post-Partum Centers/Paediatric Clinics, Premature Baby Wards.



-45-
ANMEX 9
Page 2
Institutions/              Total   1988  1989  1990  1991  1992  1993  1994
Type of Staff             to be
appoin-
ted
B. Madras
1. State Family Welfare Bureau
Officer on Special Duty          1      1
Planning and Administration Cell
Planning & Admin. Officer        1      1
Asst. Program Officer            1      1
Superintendent                   1            1
Assistants                       2      1      1
Monitoring . Evaluation
Management Information Cell
Program Officer                  1      1
Asst. Program Officer            1      1
Statistical Assistants           2      2
Social Scientists                3      3
IEC Cell
Program Officer                  1      1
Asst. Program Officer            1             1
Chief Artist-cum-Photographer   1             1
Superintendent                   1            1
Nedia Assistant                  2             2
Assistants                       2             2
Training Cell
Train'.ng (Program) Officer      1      1
Asst. Program Officer            1             1
Superintendent                   1            1
Assistant                        2             2
Grants. Accounts and Auditing
Program Officer                  1      1
Asst. Program Officer            1      1
Superintendent                   1      1
Assistants                       2      1      1



-46-
ANNEX 9
Page 3
Institutions/              Total   1988  1989  1990  1991  1992  1993  1994
Type of Staff             to be
appoin-
ted
2. Madras (City) Family Welfare Bureau
Project Coordinator              1      1
Planning and Administration Cell
Deputy District Family Welfare
Medical Officer                 1      1
Administrative Officer           1      1
Stores Officer                   1      1
Assistants                       3      2      1
IEC and Grants & Accounts Cell
Deputy District Family Welfare
Medical Officer                 1      1
Coomunication Officer            1      1
Health Education Coordinator    2       2
Public Health Nurse              1      1
Asst. Accounts Officer           1      1
Office Assist.                   3      2     1
Assistants                       3      2      1
Monitoring. Evaluation & Management Cell
Deputy District Family Welfare
Medical Officer                 1      1
Apst. Program Officer (Stft)    I       I
Computors                        5      3     2
Assistants                       3      2     1
Training Cell
Deputy District Family Welfare
Medical Officer                 1      1
Training Coordinator             2      2
Public Health Nurse              1      1
Assistants                       1      1



-47-
ANNEX 9
Page 4
Institutions/              Total   1988  1989  1990  1991  1992  1993  1994
Type of Staff             to be
appoin-
ted
Zonal Offices
Zonal Officers (Medical)        18      -     4     4        4    3    3      -
Deputy Mass Education and
Information Officer            18      -     4     4       4    3    3       -
Office Asst.                    18      -     4     4        4    3    3      -
Cinema Operator                 18      -     4     4        4    3    3      -
Driver                          18      -     4     4        4    3    3      -
Health Posts **
Medical Officers                90    10      10    20      30    10   10    -
Anesthetist                     22      5      5    12       -     -    -    -
Lab Technician                  26      7      8    13       -     -    -    -
Thcatre Assist.                 22      5      5    12       -     -    -    -
Pharmacist                      15      5      5     5       -     -    -
PHN/SN/LHV                     148    50      25    25      33    10    5
Multipurpose Worker (female) 1240   240    250   250    250   250    -
Computors                       74    15      24    25       -     -    -
Office Assistant               184    15      40    40      40    40    -
Sanitary Worker                 74    15      24    25       -     -    -
Ayah                            30    15      15     -       -     -    -
** Including Maternity Wards and Operation Theatres in city and district.
Estimates based on priciple of 1 MPW for 5,000 and 4 MPWs for each
maternity and each sterilization ward.



I  I                                           If                         I    
6 jF; r;    i iii   11             i} i    I l      o      o   8 I      S
Ig
-     -     --   ---- -     --    --    -             -    -     -    - - - - - - -     -
l~         ~ fiIi°___S    __§    ___N___s_5_    _              ___5S.             
||~~                 ~ X |    ia 5                 1oI    X o o 8     %t 



w~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
-------------------    -----                      ----------- 3-------        1:§
I                2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
. l [ ~~~~~~~~~0                                                      |   ,§tfi  i|l  |  it ; 
s       Is  r     1 7s pi fs | 8 O   _ G   8         fir    .         . .i
98                                     V       00    e 6   >   FJ  o s e W 6   P   o   o   o   o o 0o   8 o    o  o i  
i ~ ~    ~     ~     ~     ~      0       00           0 "g F g A g     O O O O Q0  0    f 
E ~  ~       ~       ~      ~0              0         0       k>WE g                       
E ~~~                     ~0                0 |                   : E oE  t_       o o o o o o   
01 ~~           ~       ~00                 0          00         0 E > X o o k o o o o o o o o   
- ~  ~     ~     1                 00        0        0 _______  0______   _  0_____________   ____  
I-#§ 8§ $ § N2§§§ i   8o                          i        b8t1 s             &t@                F



-50-
ANNEX 11
IND:\
FIFTH (BOMBAY AND MADRAS) POPULATION PROJECT
MIES Implementation Plan
Constitution of MIS Committees (Bombay and Madras)           prior to 1 April 88
Designation/appointment of staff of Monitoring &             by 1 April 1988
Evaluation Cells(Coordination office; State Family
Welfare Bureau
Selection and appointment of MIS consultants                 by 1 April 1988
Review by consultant of registers and forms                  April-June 1988
currently in use as well as existing alternatives;
study tour to review MIS implementation elsewhere,
e.g. Ludhiana, Punjab and Chandraput, Maharashtra
Report/recommendations by consultants                        by end-June 1988
Review of recommendations by MIS Committees and              July 1988
decisions on registers and forms to be adopted
Pre-testing, finalization and printing of                    August-November 1988
registers and forms
Orientation training for staff (Bombay & Madras)             Dec. 1988-March 1989
Procurement of computers scheduled for PY 1                  to be installed by
November 1988
Systems analysis consultancy to identify                     November 1988
specific training needs (Madras)
Computer training for staff scheduled for PY 1               Dec. 1988-Jan. 1989
Introduction of system new MIS including computer            1 April 1988
data processing



-51-
ANNEX 12
Page 1
INDIA
FIFTH (BOMBAY AND MADRAS) POPULATION PROJECT
Beneficiary Assessment Study
Terms of Reference
Objectives
The goals of the World Bank-assisted Fifth (Bombay and Madras) Population
Project are to support the improved delivery of and acceptance of maternal-
child health and family planning services provided by the family welfare
program to the slum populations of Bombay and Madras. The objective of the
beneficiary assessment study is to assess the needs and preferences of intended
project beneficiaries (slum dwellers) in order to obtain information and
insights that will increase the ability of the program to achieve its goals.
Study results are expected to provide inputs_particularly useful for the
design, implementation and modification of the outreach and IEC components of
the program.
Methodologv
The study will use a primarily qualitive, as opposed to quantitative,
methodology, employing qualitative (conversational) interviewing techniques at
the individual and group level as well as participant observation. These
techniques are intended to create an atmosphere of trust between interviewer
and respondent(s) that will encourage the candid expression of opinions on
potentially controversial subjects rather than the recording of facts.
Description of Study
Focus. The interviews and participant observation will focus on the
following areas:
a.   attitudes towards children and family size;
b.   knowledge of, attitudes towards, and the willingness and/or ability
to pay for available health services, both public and private;
c.   knowledge of, attitudes towards and utilization of contraception;
d.   roles in various family members and the community in affecting
decisions concerning family size and the use of family planning;
e.   sources of information about family planning and maternal-child
health care and perceptions regarding the relevance, effectiveness,
etc. of messages.



-52-
ANNEX 12
Page 2
Sample. A sample of the slum population will be taken which will be both
representative of the intended beneficiary population and large enough to be
considered relevant for the purposes of project design. However, it is not
intended that the sample be large enough to be significant in the strict
statistical sense.
Methods of data collection. Three methods of data collection will be
used: (i) individual interviews; (ii) focus group discussions; and (iii)
participant observation. Qualitative individual interviews, carried out over
two or three sessions, will be conducted with married women up to the age of 35
who have had at least one child. Community leaders and health workers will
also be interviewed individually. Women 15 and over, both married and
unmarried, and men 18 and over will be interviewed on a group basis. Case
studies, based on intensive observation of a few selected families, will also
be compiled. Records of interviews and group discussions will be made
immediately after rather than during sessions. Tape recorders will be used
only if experience clearly indicates that recording does not interfere with the
spontaneity of sessions.
Interviewers and sunervision. Interviewers with previous experience with
slum populations will be utilized. Because of the open-ended nature of the
study, extensive supervision of the interviewers will be required.
Ongoing analysis of findings. The nature of the assessment will require
continual refinement of interviewing techniques and analysis of findings
throughout the field work period. After approximately 100 interviews have been
compiled, an initial tabulation will be made to ascertain how responses may
usefully be categorized. Interviewers will then be able to keep these
categories in mind when conducting interviews and discussions.
ReRorting
After completion of field work, a report summarizing the findings of the
study will be prepared. The draft report will be shared with the Project
Director and the Monitoring and Evaluation Committee for discussion and then
finalized. A workshop will then be organized to present the findings of the
study and to discuss their implications for program implementation, with
particular emphasis on the training and IEC components.
Time Schedule
A time schedule for the conduct of the study is attached.



-53-
ANNEY. 12
Page 3
Beneficiary Assessment Study
Time Schedule
Preparation of study design; submission of study               December 1987
proposal to Directorate of Family Welfare
Training of interviewers and supervisors; pre-                 January 1988
testing of study techniques
Field work                                                     February-May 1988
Submission of progress report to DFW                           March 15, 1988
Analysis of findings and preparation of draft                  June-July 1988
report
Submission of draft report to DFV                              by end-July 1988
Discussion of draft report and preparation of                  August 1988
final report
Submission of final report to DFW                              September 1, 1988



-54-
ANNEX 12
Page 4
Baseline Survey
Terms of Reference
Obiectives
The objective of the baseline surveys to be undertaken for the Fifth
(Bombay and Madras) World Bank-supported population project ib Go provide
demographic and program data relating to the slum populations of Bombay and
Madras. These data will provide information concerning the demographic and
health status of slum populations as well the utilization of existing health
services at the beginning of the project and will permit assessment of changes
over the project period through a final survey to be carried out at project-
end.
Methodology
The surveys will utilize standard sample survey methodology. Sampling and
stratification will be carefully designed, drawing on existing infomation
concerning slum characteristics including location, size, age, ethnic
composition and proximity to existing or planned health facilities.
Content
The surveys will cover the following areas:
a.   fertility and infant mortality
b.   maternal care
c.   child care
d.   contraception and future child-bearing
e.   ability and willingness to pay for family welfare services
Ever-married women ages 15-49 will be interviewed for (a) and currently married
women ages 15-49 for (b), (c), (d) and (e).
In the MCH and contraception sections the focus will be on (i)
ascertaining coverage rates, and (ii) ascertaining the source of services (e.g.
government, PVO, private sector providers of various types) as well as
attitudes towards various types of services available. The contraception
section will include questions concerning motivation for use/non-use of
contraception. Questions concerning exposure to and attitudes towards IEC
materials on both MCH and family planning will also be included.



-55-
ANNEX 12
Page 5
Analysis
The analysis will specifically include estimates for those variables
identified as key indicators of program performance (list attached). It will
also give estimates for two groups of women: those having two or more children
who state that they want additional children, and why; and those (non-
sterilized) women who state that they do not want more children but are not
contracepting, and why.
Ouestionnaire
The questionnaire, including open-ended responses, will be pre-coded so
that the questionnaire booklets themselves can be used for direct data entry.
Data Processing
Data entry will be carried out simultaneously with field work. The data
will be analysed using existing appropriate software such as SPSS.
ReDorts
A preliminary report consisting primarily of tables giving the most
important variables with a brief accompanying text will be produced two months
following the end of field work. The complete survey report including annexed
tables will be submitted no later than six months after the preliminary report.
When the final report is available, a workshop will be organized to discuss the
findings of the survey and their implications for program implementation.
Time Schedule
A time schedule for the conduct of the survey is attached.



-56-
ANNEX 12
Page 6
Baseline Survey
lime Schedule
Submission of survey proposal to project                     December 1987
management; finalization of draft questionnaire
Pre-testing of questionnaire                                 January 1988
Field work                                                   Feburary-June 1988
Progress report to project management                        April 1, 1988
Completion of data entry, editing, preparation               July-August 1988
of initial tables
Submission to preliminary report to project                  end-August 1988
management
Completion of data analysis and report writing               September 1988-March
1989
Sumission of final report to project management              end-March 1989



-57-
ANNEX 12
Page 7
Key Indicators of Project Performance
Rates for:     1.   Contraceptive prevalence rates by method J
2.   Immunization coverage
3.   Ante-natal care
4.   Post-natal care
5.   Institutional delivery/delivery by trained personnel
6.   Growth monitoring
7.   Births by percentages of birth orders
Tables should include contraceptive prevalence for all methods and
breakdown prevalence for pills, IUCDs, condoms, sterilization (male
and female) and traditional methods. Breakdown by source, i.e.,
private, public, traditional should also be included.



-58-
ANNEX 13
Page 1
INDIA
FIFTH (BOMBAY AND MADRAS) POPULATION PROJECT
Annual IEC Planning
1.      Both Bombay and Madras have proposed to manage the development and
implementation of their respective IEC programs through a series of annual
plans.  It is anticipated that employing an annual planning approach to IEC
activity development will provide for a more dynamic program and will assist
in the development of IEC materials and activities which are more closely
matched to the service delivery expansion and target audience needs than would
be plans developed on a one time basis at appraisal. Annual IEC plans will be
reviewed with IDA during normal supervision visits. In both cities, the
project will employ mass media, interpersonal and group communication
activities to convey messages developed on the basis of local research and
materials. Bombay proposes to contract with local advertising firms and the
NGO community for the production of materials, while Madras will employ State
Family Welfare facilities for material production. IEC plans will be prepared
by each cities' IEC cell, in collaboration with project management. This
annex provides a brief outline of the principle components to be included in
each year's annual plan for each city.
A. Manpower and Organizational Development
2.      Effective IEC planning and management rests ultimately on the
development of IEC staff skills in communication planning, the development of
effective working relationships amongst those involved with the development of
materials and those involved in their distribution and with interpersonal and
group communication efforts. Accordingly, each year's annual plan should
include an assessment of needs and proposed actions in each of the following
areas:
Training Particularly in the early years of the project, the plan should
provide an assessment of staff in position and vacancies amongst IEC
personnel, requirements for training, and proposed actions for furtber
training. Training and manpower development plans should also include
proposed actions to strengthen communication skills amongst service delivery
personnel through, for instance, modification of in-service training
curricula, workshops, etc. Efforts to keep service delivery and IEC staff
informed of program issues through such mechanisms as newsletters and family
welfare journals should be described.
Equipment and Materials Survey   To assure the availability of materials at
proposed distribution points and timely maintenance of equipment, each



-59-
ANNEX 13
Page 2
year's annual plan should survey the availability and operational status of
all IEC equipment including vehicles, projectors, video equipment, films and
cassettes and suggest specific actions and budget requirements for
replacements and upkeep. Each city should develop a simple equipment and
materials monitoring system to produce the information necessary for this
annual survey.
B. IEC Program Design
3.      Effective IEC programs depend on careful specification of the
objectives to be achieved, proposed target audience(s), proposed mix of media
and activities for reaching these audiences, and detailed specification of
message content for each audience/media mix. Through annual assessment of
each of these strategic issues, it will be possible for IEC planners in both
cities to modify and match their efforts to their beneficiary needs on a
regular basis. Key steps in the preparation of each year's program design
would include:
Beneificiarv Needs Assessment Effective messages and IEC activities
must be based on systematic assessment of the beliefs attitudes and
current practises of the beneficiary population in slum areas. These
assessments will initially be developed in Bombay on the basis of
currently available research while Madras proposes to conduct an in-
depth qualitative review of beneficiary needs at the start of the
project. However, since family welfare beliefs, attitudes and
practises are not static, it will be important for IEC planners to
annually assess beneficiary beliefs as input to eich year's specific
program design. In addition, such assessments can be a valuable source
of feedback on the impact of the previous years activities and
materials and those responsible for regular monitoring and evaluation
of IEC activities (e.g. Deputy Mass Education and Media Officers, Zonal
Officers, medical social workers and multi-purpose workers) can be an
important source of information for the assessment.  A variety of
assessment techniques can be employed for this exercise, although
qualitative methods, such as focus group research, have been found to
be particulary cost effective in a variety of settings.
Annual Objectives Based on this assessment, the program design should
set specific objectives for the coming year regarding each of the
following:
Priority Target Audiences Who are the priority audiences for the
coming year? What beliefs ot attitudes are of specific concern?
Target audiences can vary by age and sex, location, social status,
past family planning and MCH experience.  It would be important to
include particular opinon making groups, such as private
practitioners, journalists, political leaders in the definition of
target audience from time to time.



-60-
Page 3
Message Content What is the content of the major messages to be
conveyed to these audiences? How can information about the
advantages and disadvantages of temporary methods best be
conveyed? How will messages attempt to overcome specific
resistance points identified through the needs assessment?
Media Mix What materials will be used to convey this message to
the priority audiences? Will the campaign emphasize print, film
or handouts? What use will be made of radio and electronic media
such as TV and videos? How will the message be integrated with
materials to be used by service delivery personnel?
Interpersonal and Group Activities What types of activities,
meetings, workshops, OTCs, cultural performances etc. will be used
to contact target audiences? How many of each type of activity
will be held? Who will be responsible for organizing these
activities? Who will supervise their implementation?
Although it is likely that some IEC objectives will carry over from
year to year, the annual planning process should assist in ensuring
that feedback from the previous year's experience is incorporated in
each year's specific objectives.
C. Program Implenmentation
4.      Following the development of specific objectives, the program plan
should specify particular tasks, identify those responsible for the
implementation of each task and an approximate schedule for the implementation
of the work throughout the coming year. Details for the following major tasI'
should be included:
Materlal Design and Pretesting If new materials are to be
developed, who will manage this task? What materials are to be
produced. If materials are to be acquired from outside agencies
(e.g. non-governmental organizations, commercial agencies) what
are the specifications for the necessary procurement documents and
when will the materials be made available. In addition, the plan
should specify what steps will be taken to pre-test new materials
on a small-scale and to evaluate their influence among a sample of
the target audience. For materials to be used by health workers,
steps for training workers in the use of the material should be
identified.
Media Selection The plan should provide details of the numbers
and types of media to be employed during the coming year;
including specification of any proposed special programs, location
and numbers of proposed print media activities and public displays
(hoardings, etc) location and periodicity of film shows, locations
and perodicity of videos, approximate schedule of visits for



-61-                       ANNEX 13
Page 4
audio-visual vans, and approximate schedule and type of any
proposed group meetings or activities.
Link with Service Delivery Each annnual plan should spell out how
IEC materials will be linked with service delivery activities
through such activities as involving service delivery staff with
material design and testing, the provision of materials for
worker's use during their household visits, focused IEC training
efforts and the like.
Monitoring and Evaluation The plan should spell out a specific
procedure for monitoring and evaluation of the activities to be
undertaken during the year, with particular attention to regular
assessment of media distribution relative to the plan and
evaluations of the content of particular messages and impact of
various forms of group meetings and interpersonal contacts.
D.  Q      nny   Budget
5.      The plan slhould include a proposed budget for the implementation of the
plan, drawing particular attention to any perceived gaps and/or changes from
previous year's allocations.



-62-                            ANNEX 14
INDIA
FIFTH (BOMBAY AND MADRAS) POPULATION PROJECT
List of PVOs Cooperating with Project Implementation
A.  Bombay
1.  Streehitakaxini
2.  Family Planning Association of India
3.  Nirmala Niketan
4.  Health Promotion Society
5.  Bombay Mothers
6.  Navrosji Wadia Maternity Hospital
7.  Indian Medical Association
8.  Mahila Vikas Mandal
9.  Nagpada Purandare Hospital
B.  Madras
1.  Working Women's Forum
2.  Women's Voluntary Services
3.  Adult Literacy Society
4.  Railway Hospital
5.  Tamil Nadu Women's Development Corporation
6.  Guild of Service
7.  Family Planning Association of India
8.  C.S.I. Rainy Hospital
9.  Putijab Health Association
10. Voluntary Health Seivicps



-63-                                      ANNEX  15
Page 1
FIFTH  (BOMBAY AND MADRA') POPULT&ION  PROJECT
PROJECT COSTS
TABLE 1: Summary Costs by Component and Time
(RS '0001
Base Costs                                            Total
88/89     89/90      90/91      91/92       92/93      93/94       94/95         RFS      (US) '000)
A. BOMBAY
1. SERVICE DELIVERY EXPANSION                   68.29   9t842.47  19.388.13  28,657.6S  42.112.70  53t498.99  60U810.36    214P378.57  16.118.69
2. OUALIT' IMPROVEMENT                       2p587.92  5s.68.01   3,988.46   3,390.38   39577.78   3.765.17   39827.64        26,205.36   19970.33
3. MANAGEMENT IMPROVEMENT ADMINISTRATION    3,228.16   5,651.75   4t729.33   4.729.33   4.729.33   49729.33   4,729.33        32,526.57   2t445.61
4. nANAGEMENT IhFROVEMENT nIES               2,676.90   2,526.54   1,927.06   1,687.44   1,481.20   i.886.69   1,891.71       14.079.54   1F058.61
5. FVI AND PRIVATE PRACTITIONERS             1,735.45   3o275.78   4,120.71   4.706.46   4-696.52   4.365.77   30734.82       26,635.52   2.002.67
6. MANAGEMENT IAPROVEMENT IEC                1,281.99   2,570.34   1.018.16   14033.50   1,033.50   I.033.50   1,002.90        8.973.88      674.7a
Sub-Total BOMBAY                               11,578.72  28.934.90  35.171.86  44,204.74  57,63i.02  69.281.45  75P996.76    3229799.44  246270.63
MA. AI'RA3
1. SEPUICE DELIVERY EXFANSION               14FGB5.21  28.^28.46  466559.65  75.066.38  56,704.11  489970.53  46.205.13    318,019.47  23,911.24
2. QUALITi IMPROVEMENT                       1.535.87   3.834.62   3.701.11   1,974.53   1r974.53   1,974.53   1,974.53       16,969.73   1.275.92
3. hANAGEMENT IMPROVEMENT ADIIINISTRATION    4.112.80   8,643.57  11,503.56   7,760.05   6v238.26   6.238.26   6.238.26       50S734.76   3,814.64
4. MANAGEMENT IMPRO'JEMENT IEC               2,359.71   7,935.53   6,969.23   4,258.70   3F517.45   3.517,45   3,517.45       32,075.51   2.411.69
M. MANAGEMENT IMPROVEMENT MlES               29488.17   1.472.55     963.64      963.64     963.64   1.255.92      982.55      9,090.11      683.47
6. FUO Atilt P6IVATE FRACTITIONERS           5,498.35   7.624.45  10,996.99  12.201.l   6r866.12   5.658.44   4.450.?6       53.296.28   44007.24
Sib-Total MADRAS                               30,080.10  57,939.10  80.694.19 102224.46 76.264.11  67,615.14  65,36B.68    480,185.85  36.104,20
lotal BASELINE COSTS                             41.658.82  8o.874.07 115.8o6.u5 1469429.20 13'.895.13 136,896.59 141,365.44    802,985.29  60.374.83
Phvsical Conrtir,ser,tcei                      3,365.36   6,926.85   99002.91  10.862.19   8.638.29   8.619.48   8,855.48       56,470.57  46245.91
Ftice Contirsencies                            4.295.24  15,839.13  29,984.8a  49,811.95  56.765.09  709149.29  85,739.22    312t584.81  13.592.68
Total PROJECT COSTS                              49,319.42 109640.05 154.653.8-' 207.103.33 159.498.51 215,665.3o 235,960.14  14172,044.6  789213.42
Taxes                                         1261.30   .952,.28   3t7.'.C'  4.G59.99   2.603.08   29347.84   2.510.48         19,455.79   1.314.99
fnreagr, E;charse                              4,473.73   9,495.91  12.187.65  110757.73   8%359.37   8,043.26   8,716.34       63,035.99   4f259.08
.,-- -- -  I . ... .    -- - - - -   -- --  -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -



ANNEX 15
-64-                                    Page 2
INDIA
FIFTH (BOMBAY AND MADRAS) POPULATION PROJECT
PROJECT COSTS
TABLE 2: Summary Costs by Categories of Expenditure and Time
Base Costs                          Foreign
(RS Million)                        Exchange
88/89 89/90  90/91  91/92  92/93  93/94  94/95   Total    Z  Aaount
I. INVESTHENT COSTS
A. CIVIL WORKS                            6.20  12.96  21.79  26.62   6,63   1.71   1.71    77.63  10.9  8.48
Bo FURNITURE                              2,07   2.66   2.29   2.95   1.36   0.82   0.65    12.81   8.9  1.15
C. EQUIPENT                               5.79  15.66  17.21  14.94   4.    1,22   0.74    5Y.93  11.9   7.15
Do VEHICLES                               2.06   3.51   1.91   0.37     -      -      -    7.84   8.9  0.70
E. LOCAL ADVISERS                         4.40   4.79   4.55   4.62   4.73   4.46   2,84    30.39   0.0  0.00
F. LOCAL FELLOWSHIPS                      0.79   2.42   2.59   2.48   2.55   2.62   2.63    16.08   0.0  0.00
G. PROFESSIONAL FEES                      2.06   1.57   1.64  2.47   2.50   0.77      -    11.01   0.0  0.00
H. FOREIGN FELLOWSHIPS                    0.86   1.55   1.83     -      -      -      -    4.24  89.9  3.82
I. BOOKS                                  0.01   0.01      -     -      -      -      -    0.01   0.0  0.00
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                      24.25  45.13  53.81  54,45  22.14  11.60  8.57   219.95   9.7  21.29
II. RECURRENT COSTS
A, SALARIES OF ADDITONAL STAFF           9.96  26.46  42,70  68.51  83.74  94,32 100.16   425.84   0.0  0.00
B. CONSUMABLE MATERIAL                   6.65  12.83  15.65  18.25  21.44  23.33  24.26   122.40  19.9  24.34
Co OPERATION AND MAINTENACE OF VENICLE    0,25   0.70  0.87   0.94   1.03   1.03   1.03    5.87   9.9  0.58
D. OTHER OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE       0.55   1.76   2.83   4.27   5.54   6.61   7,35    28.92   5.0   1.44
Total RECURRENT COSTS                       17.41  41.75  62.06  91.98 111.76 125.29 132.80   583.04   4.5  26.36
Total BASELINE COSTS                         41.66  86.87 115.87 146.43 133.90 136.90 141.37   802.99   5.9  47.65
Physical Contingencies                     3.37   6.93   9.00  10.86   8.84   8.62   8.86    56.47   8.1   4.57
Price Contingencies                        4.30  15.84  29.98  49.81  56.77  70.15  85.74   312.58   3.5  10.81
- -                                                                     I
Total PROJECT COSTS                          49.32 109.64 154.85 207.10 199,50 215.67 235.96 1,172.04   5.4  63.04
===_:= __==== == :== ==== == ====, ====== ====== ========  _== _ :___==
Taxes                                      1.26   2.95   3,72   4.06   2.60   2.35   2.51    19.46   0.0  0.00
Foreign Exchanse                           4.47   9.50  12.19  11.76   8.36   8.04   8.72   63.04   0.0   0.00
Haw 139 1988 10:08



Ca-..61-o    RMAi-
PYFIN  ttOUY   Alm 1 MMI  90933AIIIA'l    !UCstt
UIJLII 3 S..' Cost. ht Cn. -. C.'..t1ori af astr
111111 111NN
Mvrn          m          uuT Dr                    mtttT    at  Ol11  111                            r_un                                                            (.00mpm 
1. .91131IE0T C_IT
A. CIL    S                                15.27                                                                         4.16            -          11.             -           -             .6      17.63  10.0   7.76
3. FUIIITff                                4.20         0.1i           0.70        0.4a            6.27        0.44       4,46        6.34           O.1         0.-                         0.42    t2.u   10.0   1.21
C. EIUIIPEII                              13.25         3.T5           0.6         2.13            0.1l        1.41      27.41        *.U            0.92        7.1          .11           L327      9.92   1.0   1."
*. 4I13L0ES                                    -         .27           0.W            -               -         .3       41.91        0.46            .7         I.n         0.u                -      7.04  30.0   0.78
l. LOUL   3iEns                               -          .11              -        4.07            2.2         1.9          -         L.S            0.0t           -        2.46           80.74    30.39   n.0   1.52
r. LEA  F1UA.Ps                               - S1."                      -        0.07            0.09        04           -         2.n1              -        L.9t        0.u                -    10.46    .0   L1.t
S.   tS3WI.k lIES                          0.C2           -               -           --                          -      7.4             -           3.0            -                        0.6      31.01  30.0   3.36
0. FOREIGN 11rr.                              -         3.72                                                                -         2.30              -         .M                                   4.24    .S   0.21
1. 0031                                    0.0            -                     -             -                             -                           -           -                                 0.01   0.0   0.0
101. I1(11i0001 CiSTS                        21.35        19.77           1.49        4.27            I.E         3-.2     I9."         M0             39.          9.24        .49            2343    29,"9    *.0  194
II. 1O620T CamI
".     t  IF a     rnaL ST1              146.n         4.4z          27.74        1.20           U 17         2.4      la.49         2.4           MY          320           .0             9.6t   4.4    1n  a2.29
0. CWIWLt INITERUAL                       21.4        0.46           3.09        2.23             .44        042       46.76        4471           3.4         7.9         2.04            11M     122.40   I.0   U.24
C. Wlltit AND 0604     a1 OF (0Ir  E         -         0.D            041            -               -        0.D       0.7          0,0            2.34        4.9         G.10               -      5J.7  I.    0.9
D. 0THER 130  941 A MAI4ZNTENCE           1043         1.02           1.3         0.20            342         0.n2       3.3U        0.4            I.2         R.4J        0.36          0.3        24.92  U0.0   h.t
TIoU  RE0311 CtSTS                           3242          6,4           2 34.        74D.                         5      239.6                                    2.             3.           U3.14    1a 4            3.D.
Total &MLINE COSTS                           214.3        24.21          22.3         U4.0            2t44         2.9     218.62        U4.97           c.73       22111        W."            Sf3.    m.        7.6   10.
Pn0 ica1 C.t1IKi                            14.39        3.34           3.07        0.94            370         .44       23           3.064          3O          2.4         0.42            231      50.47   0.0   0.00
P,aco CMAimwtn                              941.92       9.09          11.          4.3             9.94        2.3      W2."          5.34          1747        1.12         2.74           37.40    92.3    4.2  19.7
Total 9j    Cam(S                            327.09       36.64          4.04         19.57           20.2        3.42    464.31        22.29           n1.         40.9        3.46            74.00  1.33.44   4.5  74.14
fao                                         2.92        0.20           O.X 2        0.22            04          0.2       9.38        0.34            1.46        3.4l        0.20            3.0      39P.46   9.3   3.77
Fi.. ECao                                   12.41        2.21           0M          0.92            3.92        0.12      20.92        2."            3.34        3S          0.73            44       6.44    .0   L.34
. .     .. _     _      _ _  _. 



-66-                                       ANNEX  15
Page 4
INDIA
FIFTH (BOhBAY AND MADRAS) POPULATION PROJECT
PROJECT COSTS
TABLE 4: Bombay - Summary Costs by ComRonent
(RS '000
Base Costs                                           Total
38/89     89790      90/9:     91/92      92/93      93/94      94/0°          RS      (USS '000)
A. BM18AY
1. SERVICE DEL1VrEY EXPANSION                    68.29  9M842.4' 19r386.13 28v657.oj 42'112i.70  53P498.99  604810.36  214,378.57  16i118.69
- DUALITY IMPROVEMENT                        -2,587.92  5,068.01  3,988.46  3,370. 3   3 577.78   3,765.17   3,627.64   26,205.36   1,970.33
3. ?ANAGEMENT IMPROVEMENT ADMINISTFATION    3Y228.16  5,SY1.75  4,729.33  4Y729.33  4t729.33   40729.33   4,729.33   32,526.57   2,445.61
4. MANAGEMENT IMPROVEMENT MIES                2.676.90  2,526.54  I,/27.06  1.687.44  1*481.20   1488.69   1,891.71   14,079.54   1,058.61
5. PVC. AND PRIVATE PRACTITIONERS             1,735.45  3,275.78  4f120.71  4,706.46  49696.52   49365.77   3,734.82   26,635.52   2,002.67
6. MANAGEMENT IMPROVEMENT IEC                1b281.99  2P570.34  1.018.16  1,033.50  1,033.50   1,033.50   1.002.90    8.973.88            674.73
Sub-TGtdal EiOlAY                               11,578.72 28,934.90 35,171.86 44P20^.74 57P631.02  69i281S.5  75,996.76  322,799.44  24.270063
Total BASELINE COSTS                              114578.72 28,934.90 35.171.86 44,204.74 57?631.02  69,281.45  759996.76  322f799.44  24,270.63
Phssical Contirsencies                            306.56  2,151.78  2,448.65  2t853.44  3,689.51   49365.30   40758.96   21,074.20   16584.53
Price Contingerncies                           1l170.51  5,267.03  9,i84.77 15.047.71 249458.49  35.563.48  46,173.91  136t865.90   5,968.55
Total PROJECT COSTS                               13.555.78 36#3'3.71 40,805.27 o2,105.89 85077T.03 109.210.24 126,929.63  4800739.54  31823.71
Taxes                                             258.38    845.ol    813.64    647.43    84E.0'    97C.70   1,069.98    5,461.77            366.00
Foreign Exchange                                1,506.116  2.926.80  2.153.03  2.210.29  2'984.89   3,580.99   4.053.30   19,422.15   1,301.90



-67-                                    ANNEX 1S
Page 5
FIFTH (BOMBAY AND MADRAS) POPULATION PROJECT
PROJECT COSTS
TABLE 5: Madras - Summary Costs by Component
*RS '00;)
Ease Casts                                       Total
88/8    89/90     90'91      91/92      9/.93     93/94      94/95         RS    (USS '000)
MADRAS
1. SERVICE DELIVERY EXPANSION            14,085.21 28,428.46  46,559.65  75,066.38  56704.11  48W970.53  489205.13  31E,019.47 23*911.24
2. QUALITY IMPROVEHENT                    1,535.87 3,834.62   34701.11   1.974.53  1974.53   1,974.53   1,974.53   16.969.73   1,275.92
3. MAlAGEHENT IHPROVEMENT ADMINISTRATION    4,112.u0  8,643.57  11.503.56   7,760.05  6,238.26  6,238,26  6W238.26  50,734.76  3*814.64
4. MANAGEMENT IMPROVEMENT IEC             2,359.71  7,935.53   6,909.23  4,258.70   36517.45   3.517,45  3,517.45   32,075,51   29411.69
5. MANAGEMENT IMPROVEMENT MIES            2.488.17  1,472.55    963.o4      963.64    963.iq  1,255.92      982.55   9,090.11    683.47
6. PUD AND PRIVATE PRACTITIONERS          59498.35  7,624.45  10.996.99  12.201.16   6*6o6.12   54658.44  4,450.76   53,296.28   4,007.24
Sub-Total MADRAS                            30,080.10 57,939.18  80,694.19 102.224.4b  760264.11  67.615.14  65,368.6C  480*195.85 36*104.20
Total BASELINE COSTS                          30,080,10 57,939.18  80*694.19 102#224.4b  76,264.11  67.615.14  65,368.68  480G18S.85  36*104.20
Physical Contingencies                      2,558.80  4,775.07   66554.26  8,008.74   5,148.78   4,254.18   4,096.52  35,396.36   2,661.38
Price Contingencies                         3,124.74 10,572.10  20800.12  31,764.24  32P306.59 34*585.81  39,565.30  175,718.91  7.624,13
Total PROJECT COSTS                           35*763.64 73,286,35 108048.57 144,997.45 113,719.49 106,455.12 109.030.51  6919301.12  46,389.71
=__=== ====z-_==o ==0===O=  0===z==== Z==z====== Z======0~r.__=     o==== s zrss2o==
Ta.es                                       1*002.92  2*106.67   2,907.18  3,412.56   1755.06   19369.14   19440.50   13,994.02     948.99
Foreln Exchange                            2S966.87  6,569.12  10*034.62   9,547.43  5,374.48   4,456.28  4*665.04   43,613.84   2,957.17
__  _ __  _ -- -   -   -_ _ _ _ -   ------- ------ ------ ------ ------ ----_------- ----_---_--- -_--_-- -_-__-_--- -- _-_------- -- _- _- ----- _ _ -_ --- - _----



-u-
-68-                            Page 1
In"
FIFrd (BgONAX AMD NADtAs)3 POPAUlATIn PGJ
FINANCING PLAN
TABLE 1: Financing Plan bv Project Counonent
(US0 '000)
INITER@ITIML
ASSOCIATION   6WEIWIENT Of IDIA       Total
Lowal (Excl. Dutie I
Amunt    I       Mmmt         Z    Aownt    I    For. Exch.    Tan)          Tam
mum. 33.88   322283812  88283  322222  38 m 333        rmammumm=  ammin
1. SERVICE DELIVERY EXPANSION           14,954.45 69.51    6t558.75   30.4?  21,513.20 27.51     9565    20,366.44   261.11
2. IOALITY IIURUJ                        2,243.2 90.39       239.39   9.61  2,481.67  3.17       168.68     2,293.77    19.22
3. WAN;6ENT IMIPROVEMENT AININISTRATION    2,106.39 68.12    985.85  31.89    3M092.24   3.95     45.21     3,027.92    19.21
4. NAIMIEIIfT  IPROVEMENT NIES           1,054.92 79.46      272.74  20.54   1,327.65  1.70.      63.54    1241.57    22.54
5. PWO AND PRIVATE PRACTITIUERS          1,931.12 71.42      732.90  28.58  2,564.02  3.29       102.77     2,434.90    26.45
6. _WAG        IN RWJVEIET IEC             644.58 76.29      200.35  23.71    144.93   1.09       36.05       791.41     17.47
sub-Total DNY                              22,934.74 71.75    9,980.97  29.25 31,923.71  40.69   1,301.9      30t155.81   366.00
B. INAS
1. SERVICE DELIVEY EXPASIION            22,355.71 72.10    89651.15  27.90 31,006.85 39.64  11   37    289460.13   620.85
2. WUALITY INROWIENT                     1,418.10 89,64      163,I 1   10.36  1 591,91  2.02     2(,,24     14354.17    20.51
3. IMGNT IPIIIVENT  ADNINISTRATION    34577.v0 73.67   1278.82  26.33  4,856.72  6.21           215.46     4541.73    99.53
4. WAAEIET IIROVEIENT IEC                2,201.70 72.33      842.45  27.67  3,044.15  3.89       249.12     2,699.77    96.26
5. WAAGENEIT IIERENT fIES                  669.29 78.76      190.53  21.24    849.S2  1.09        49.65       784.23    16.9
6. PWO AID PRIVATE PACTITIOIERS          3,905.4 77.34    1I144,42  22.66  5,050.26  6.46        310.93     4644,52    94N.
Sub-Total  ADRAS                           34,120.54 73.57   12,261.17  26.43 46,389971 59.31   2,957.17    42P483#54   949.99
Total Disburuwnt                             56,963.29 72.83   21,250.14  27.17 79,213.42 100.00   4259.09    72639.36  1314.99
332238883 33232  3i23                 Un         uu --as=1      3S2     8       m
-~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -   -   --------     -........... -  --     -  ----._  ------.. . _._ ____ -    -----  -  -------......__



ANNEX-16
-69-                                 Page 2
INDIA
FIFTH (BOMBAY AND MADRAS) POPULATION PROJECT
FINANCING PLAN
TABLE 2:  Financing Plan by Catemories of Expenditure
(US$ million)
INTERNATIONAI.
DEVELOP$ENT   GOVERNHENT OF
A3SOC,AiION        INDIA          Total                Local
------                                          For.   (Excl.  Duties I
Amount   x       Amount   Z    Amount   Z       Exch,  Taxes)   Taxes
==_= =====s   ====== ===== - ==== =--=z   === ==  =---=  =  ==s=---=
A. CIVIL WGFRKS                                  6.28  85.00       1.11 15.00    7.39   9.45   0.75    6.42          0.22
8. FURNITURE                                      1.04  85.00      0.18 15.00    1.22   1.56   0.10    1.10          0.02
C. VEHICLES                                      0.61  85.00       0.11 15.00    0.11   0.9i   0.06    0.62          0.04
D. EQUIPMENT                                     4.79  85.00       0.85 15.00    5.64   7.21   0.62    4.68          0.34
E. SALARIES OF ADDITONAL STAFF                  28.06  67,20    13.70 32.80   41,76  53.40           -   41.76          -
F. CONSUMABLE MATERIALS                          8,16  67.20       3.98 32,80   12.15  15.53   2.23    9,31          0.61
G. LOCAL FELLOWSHIPS                              1.54 100.00         -      -    1.54   1.96        -    1.54          -
H. LOCAL ADVISERS                                2.85 100.00          -      -    2.85   3.64        -    2.85          -
I. OPERATION AND V4INTENANCE OF VEHICLES         0,39  67.20       0.19 32,80    0.58   0.75   0.05    0.44          0.09
J. OTHER OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE                1.99  67,20      0.97 32,80    2.97   3.79   0.13    2.83             -
K. PROFESSIONAL FEES                              0.90  85,00      0.16 15,00    1.06   1.36         -    1.06          -
1. FOREIGN FELLONSHIPS                            0.35 10000          -      -    0.35   0.45   0.31    0.04            -
M. BOOKS                                          0.00  85.00      0.00 15.00   0o00   0.00          -    0o00          -
Total Disbursement                                 56.96  72.83    21.25 27.17   78.21 100.00   4.26   72.64           1.31
=M=,,= __===.  _-==_= = ===    ===_- ===_-   ===  ====____



-70-
ANNEX 17
Page 1
INDIA
FIFTH (BOMBAY AND MADRAS) POPULATION PROJECT
RECURRENT COST IMPLICATIONS
Actual and Projected Family Welfare Expenditure
Family Welfare                          Actual                         Projected
Budget               1982-83  1983-84  1984-85  1985-86  1986-87        1995
Allocations          --------------  Rs. Million ---------------
(Rs.Million)
A. GOI                 2450.00  3300.00  4380.00  5000.00  5300.00       11360.40
B. Tamil Nadu           120.96   187.68   220.79   233.39   238.81         550.00
C. Bombay Municipal
Corporation          398.49   451.50   531.90   579.04   678.32        1563.00
Recurrent Costs of Project 1995
D. Total Recurrent Costs of Project                Rs. 221.58 Million
(US$ 14.11 Million) (Table 1)
E. Tamil Nadu (Madras & Suburban Townships)        Rs. 106.49 Million
Recurrent Costs                                 (US$ 6.78 Million) (Table 2)
F. Bombay and Municipal Corporation                Rs. 115.10 Million
Recurrent Costs                                 (US$ 7.33 Million) (Table 3)
Recurrent Cost ImDlications
Total recurrent costs as % of projected GOI budget (D as % of A)   -  1.95%
90% total recurrent costs as % of projected GOI budget                -  1.75%
Tamil Nadu recurrent costs as % of projected Tamil Nadu Budget
(E as % of B)                                                   = 19.36%
10% of Tamil Nadu recurrent cost as % of project3d
Tamil Nadu Budget                                                   1.93%
Bombay recurrent costs as % of projected BMC budget (F as % of C)  -  7.36%
10% of Bombay recurrent cost as % of projected BMC budget             =  0.73%
Assumptions:  GOI budget growth at 10% p.a.; Tamil Nadu at 11% p.a.; and
Bombay at 11% p.a.
Sources:  GOI budget    - Annual Report 1986-87. Ministry of Health and Family
Welfare, New Delhi
Bombay budget - Outline of civil finances 1987-88. Bombay
Municipal Corporation
Tamil Nadu Budget - Directorate of Family Welfare, Tamil Nadu



-71-                                     ANNE  17
Page 2
SABLE 1: TOTAL PROJECT INVESTMET AND RECURRENT COSTS BY YEAR
Totals Including Contingencies                   Totals Including Continmncin
(RS Million)                                    (US$ million)
88/R9 89/90 90/91  91/92 92/93 93/94 94/95  Total   98/89 99/90 0/91 91/92 92/93 93/94 94/95 Total
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. CIVIL WORKS                         7.47  16.64 29.67 38.38  10.13  2.77  2.94  107.99  0.54  1.17 2.05 2.59 0.67 0.18 0.19 7.39
B. FURNITURE                           2.50  3.43  3.12  4.26  2.09   1.33  1.12   17.85  0.18 0.24 0.22 0.29 0.14 0.09 0.07  1.22
C. EQUIPENT                            6.97 20.09 23.40 21.51   6.66   1.97   1.27   8i.88  0.51  1.42 1.61  1.45 0.44 0.13 0.06  5.64
D. VEHICLES                            2.48  4.52  2.60  0.53       -      -     -   10.13  0.18 0.32 0.19 0.04    -    -    - 0.71
E. LOCAL ADVISERS                      5.09  5.91  5.97  6.43  6.97  6.98  4.70   42.06  0.37 0.42 0.41 0.43 0.46 0.45 0.30 2.95
F. LOCAL FELLOWSHIPS                   0.91   2.99  3.40  3.45  3.76  4.10  4.35   22.96  0.07 0.21  0.23 0.23 0.25 0.27 0.29  1.54
6. PROFESSIONAL FEES                   2.49  2.03  2.25  3.60  3.86   1.25       -   15.50  0.19  0.14 0.16 0.24 0.26 0.08    - 1.06
H. FOREI6N FELLOWSHIPS                 0.96  1.79  2.22       -     -      -     -    4.97  0.07 0.13 0.15    -    -    -    - 0.35
I. BOOKS                               0.01  0.01      -      -     -      -          0.01  0-10 0.00  - 0.00
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                   28.88 57.42 72.62 78.17 33.47  18.41  14.38  303.34  2.09 4.04  5.01 5.28 2.22  1.20 0,92 20.75
==      = -=                                   --=-  -=-=  - r S - r 2,_r =  :
Ir. RECURRENT COSTS
A. SALARIES OF ADDITONAL STAFF       11.50 32.68 56.04 95.32 123.50 147.44 165.95  632.43  0.83 2.30 3.96 6.44 8.18  9.57 10.57 41.76
D. CONSUMBALE HATERIAL                7.98  16.37 21.12 26.07 32.43 37.38 41.17  182.50  0.58  1.15  1.46  1,76 2.15 2.43 2.62 12.15
C. OPERATION AND NAINTENACE OF VENICLE   0.31  0.90   1.19  1.35  1.58  1.67   1.77    6.77  0.02 0.06 0.08 0.09 0.10 0.11 0.11  0.58
D. OTHER OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE    0.66  2.28  3.88  6.20  8.52  10.77 12.69   45.00  0.05 0.16 0.27 0.42 0.56 0.70 0.81 2.97
Total RECURRENT COSTS                    20.44 52.22 82.23 128.93 166.03 197.26 221.58  868.70  1.48 3.68 5.67 8.71 11.00 12.91 14.11 57.46
=::rs ====== .===== ======z =z     =z==== -=:=:= =~=== r.__=r  1=:r rxr=    r   a3Z8:- zsz=r xcza*z 
Total PROJECT COSTS                       49.32 109.64 154.85 207.10 199.50 215.67 235.96 i,l72.04  3.57 7.72 10.68 13.99 13.21 14.00 15.03 78.21
===z- =====: mTz=v -=tt= ===r=z ::===== r.==2a= r2: --:                C=:2=



-72-                                          U    17
Page 3
T   Ll 2: TAMIL    DI I ESTNT AND                  C        T    STS fY Y
Totals Including Continsmnci                       Totals Including Continrmcin
(Rs Nilliun)                                       (US$ Nillian)
8U/B  89/90 90/91  91/92  92193  93/94  94/95  Total  99/9 99/90 90/91 91/92 92/93 93/94 94/95 Total
Zan"3 333ZZ323333  3333          33    3         2
1. INVESTIENT COSTS
A. CIVIL WRKS                             7.47 14.45  27.34  35,91   7,51      -      -  92.67   0.54  1.02  1.99  2.43  0.50    -      - 6.37
B. FURNITURE                              1.35  1.96   2.09   3.01   0.68      -      -   9.09   0.10  0.14  0.14  0,20  0.05    -     - 0.63
C. EQUIPENT                               5.03 11.32  15.91  19.39   4.21      -      - 55.77   0.36  0.80  1.09  1.31  0.28     -    - 3.94
D. VEHICLES                               1.78  3.57   2.60   0.53      -      -      -  9.49   0.13  0,25  0.18  0.04      -    -     - 0.60
E. LOCAL ADVISERS                         2.96 4.04   4.21   4.47   4.74   3.80   1.81  26.02   0.21  0.28  0.29  0.30  0.31  0.25  0,12  1.77
F. LOCAL FELLONSHIPS                      0.30  0.67   0.71   0.62   0.66   0.70   0.74   4.40   0.02  0.05  0.05  0.04  0.04  0.05  0.05  0.30
G. PROFESSIONAL FEES                      2.49  1.77   1.97   3.30   3.55   1.25      -  14.34   0.19  0.12  0.14  0.22  0.23  0.08    - 0.98
H. FOREIGN FE'.LO1SHIPS                      - 0.79   2.22       -      -      -      -  3.01       - 0.06  0.15     -     -    -      - 0.21
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                      21.39 38.56  56.95  67.24  21.35   5.75   2.55 2i3.77   1.55  2.77 3.93  4.54  1.41  0.37  0.16 14.68
_23x=2 3333     ,.3333 . 3383 33333Z 3333 3333  3mz2  S33 333 32          3333333333333 3333  33=S
II. RECURRENT COSTS
A. SALARIES OF ADDITONAL STAFF           7.11 19.62  32.44  56.51  67.68  73.89  7n.33 335.57   0.52  1.38  2.24  3.82  4.48  4.80  4.99 22.22
S. CONSUIME MATERIAL                     6.76 13.51  16.48  19.40  21.34  23.22  24.40 124.09   0.49  0.95  1.14  1.24  1.41  1.51  1.55  8.30
C. OPERATION AND MAINTENACE OF VEbICLE    0.15  0.67   0.95   1.10   1.3i  1.39   1.47   7.05   0.01  0.05  0.07  0.07  0.09  0.09  0.09  0.47
D. OTHER OPERATION AND MAINTENAICE       0.35  0.92   1.24   1.75   2.0:i  2.21   2.29  10.81   0.03  0.06  0.09  0.12  0.14  0.14  0.15  0.72
Total RECURRENT COSTS                       14.38 34.72  51.10  77.76  92.37 100.71 106.49 477.53   1.04  2.45  3.52  5.25  6.12  6.54  6.7e 31.70
Bua  Z= S27  Cx=  v3= S2SSS MS2 UUMMU   am1a maz aS-  MA=Z  ZZZ 222==_ ZA  Z=l=X
Total PROJECT COSTS                          35,76 73,29 108.05 145.00 113.72 106.46 109,A3 691.30   2.59  5.16  7.45  9.90  7.53  6.91  6.94 46.39
_=_ =2 =2  ms=. _ 222223 3¶.32  222-=  2=22= 2322.2 cz33= ZZZv 2=:=  22r2 3*2=3 r-:== 2:=c=  22==



-73-                                  ANtR1
Pago 4
TABLE  3:   BONBAY INVESYKENT AND RECURRENT COSTS BY YEAR
Totals Includinu Continfiocin                   Totals Including Contiwencin
(RS Million)                                    (USS Million)
88/89 89/90 90/91 91/92 92/93 93/94  94/95  Total  8U/89 89/90 90/1 91/92 92/93 93/94 94/95 Total
3333   tl   3=2=   -2=  23=r xt== =  =    _ n           =..v tttGr= rrst. tn   a.: 332 =3 ===
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. CIVIL MRKS                               - 2.20 2.33  2.47  2.62   2.77   2.94  15.32       - 0.15  0.16  0.17 0.17  0.18 0.19  1.02
B. FURNITLIRE                            1.15  1.46  1.04  1.25  1.41   1.33   1.12   8.76  0.08  0.10  0.07  0.06 0.09  0.09  0.07 0.59
C. EQUIPENT                              1.94  8.78  7.58  2.12  2.45   1.97   1.27  26.11   0.14  0.62 0.52  0.14 0.16 0.13  0.06  1.90
D. VEHICLES                              0.70 0.94    -          -     -      -      1.64  0.05  0.07    -    -    -    -    - 0.12
E. LOCAL ADVISERS                        2.12  1.89  1.76  1.96  2.24  3.19   2.90  16.03  0.15  0.13 0.12  0.13 0.15  0.21  0.19  1.08
F. LOCAL FELLWNSHIPS                     0.61  2.32  2.69  2.93  3.10   3.40   3.61  18.56  0.04  0.16  0.19  0.19  0.21  0.22  0.23  1.24
G. PROFESSIONAL FEES                        - 0.27  0.28 0.30  0.32        -     -  1.17       - 0.02  0.02  0.02  0.02     -    - 0.06
H. FOREIGN FELLOWSHIPS                   0.96  1.00    -    -    -        -      -  1.96  0.07  0.07       -    -    -    -    - 0.14
1. IUWKS                                 0.01  0.01     -    -    -       -      -  0.01   0.00  0.00      -    -    -    -    - 0.00
Tot3l INVESTMENT COSTS                      7.49 18.95 15.68 10.93 12.13  12.66  11.83 89.57   0.54  1.33  1.06  0.7' 0.80 0.82  0.75  6.07
-r-..   32322 r 2322 222*2 7=s Z r- 333s r=S 33 3sr.s   33233 32=ss    r 3322 3     223==s  2r33 333r3
II. RECURRENT COSTS
A. SALARIES OF ADDITONAL STAFF          4.39 13.06 23.60 38.81 55.82  73.55 8/.63 296.85   0.32  0.92  1.63  2.62  3.70  4.70  5.58 19.54
P. CONSUIABLE NATERIAL                  1.22 2.86  4.64  7.67 11.09  14.16  16.77  58.41   0.09  0.20 0.32 0.52  0.73  0.92  1.07  3.85
C. OPERATION AND MAINTENACE OF VENICLE    0.15 0.22  0.24  0.25  0.27   0.28   0.30   1.72   0.01  0.02  0502 0.02  0.02  0.02  0.02  0.12
D. OTHER OPERATION AND MAINTEIANCE      0.31  1.36  2.64  4.45  6.48   8.56  10.40  34.19   0.02  0.10 0.18 0.30  0.43  0.J6  0.66  2.25
Total RECURRENT COSTS                       6.07 17.50 31.13 51.18 73.65  96.55 115.10 391.17   0.44  1.23  2.15  3.46  4.98 6.27  7.33 25.75
=32z r= 3:3    3 2           =333  =33t3r r.=   =3= _3= =33 r== 33333=r3333 33 _3=s   ==
Total PROJECT COSTS                         13.56 36.35 46.81 62.11 85.78 109.21 126.93 480.74   0.98  2.56  3.23 4.20  5.68  7.09  8.08 31.82
3333= 332-3 =::3r2 =232---- -:-- 32    =    Z3333=  :3:r=  =3322 223 2223     r=23  s 32 33



-74-
ANNEX 18
INDIA
FIFTH (BOMBAY AND MADRAS) POPULATION PROJECT
FORECAST OF EXPENDITURE AND DISBURSEMENTS
Expenditures              Disbursements
IDA Fiscal Year          Semester    Cumulative    Semester        Cumulative
-------------       US$ Million-------------------
FY88
1st (Jul 87-Dec 87)          -             -
2nd (Jan 88-Jun 88)         0.50         0.50            -              -
FY89
1st (Jul 88-Dec 88)         1.29          1.79         0.40            0.40
2nd (Jan 89-Jun 89)         1.79          3.58          1.26           1.66
FY90
1st (Jul 89-Dec 89)         3.86         7.44          1.65            3.31
2nd (Jan 90-Jun 90)         3.86        11.30          3.4,           6.74
FY91
1st (Jul 90-Dec 90)         5.34        16.64          3.44          10.18
2nd (Jan 91-Jun 91)         5.34        21.98          4.75          14.93
FY92
1st (Jul 91-Dec 91)        7.00         28.98          4.74          19.67
2nd (Jan 92-Jun 92)         7.00        35.98          5.79          25.46
FY93
1st (Jul 92-Dec 92)        6.61         42.59          5.79          31.25
2nd (Jan 93-Jun 93)         6.61        49.20          4.85          36.10
FY94
1st (Jul 93-Dec 93)         7.00        56.20          4.86          40.96
2nd (Jan 94-Jun 94)         7.)0        63.20          4.42          45.38
FY95
1st (Jul 94-Dec 94)        7.51         70.71          4.42          49 80
2nd (Jan 95-Jun 95)         7.50        T'8.21         3.60          53.40
FY96
Ist (Jul 95-Dec 95)          -             -           3.60          57.00
Closing Date: December 31, 1995.



-75-
ANNEX 19
INDIA
FIFTH (BOMBAY AND MADRAS} POPULATION PROJECT
TABLE 1: PROJECT BENEFICIARIES
Bombay    Madras       Total
----- (millions) -------
Projected population, 1995                13.03      6.31        19.34
Proj. slum population (50%)                6.5       3.2          9.7
Pct. of children 0-4                       9         9              -
No. of children 0-4                        0.6       0.3          0.9
Pct. of married women 15-44               17        17             -
No. of married women 15-44                 1.1       0.5          1.6
Total no. of beneficiaries                 1.7       0.8          2.5



-76-
ANNEX 20
Page 1
INDIA
FIFTH (BOMBAY AND MADRAS) POPULATION PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A. General Reports. Studies and Data Collections
A-1 Malavani: Health Care Delivery System Review; K.E.M Hospital, Parel
Bombay, December 1982.
A-2 BMC, Public Health Department, Participation of Non-Governmental
and Voluntary Organizations in Outreach Services of BMC.
A-3 Profiles of ART Commercia Advertising, Pvt. Ltd., and Mr. S.S. Oberol.
A-4 Alternative Model for Health and Family Welfare with Special Reference
to Slum Populations, Gopa Kothari, Department of Community Medicine,
L.T.M.M. College, Sion, Bombay.
A-5 Urban Primary Health Care Program, Copa Kothari, Department of
Preventive and Social Medicine, Sion, Bonbay 1987.
A-6 Partial List of Studies and Surveys Conducted in Creater Bombay; Dr.
V.P. Desal, Bombay, November 1987.
A-7 Working Women's Forum, Grass Root Health and Family Welfare Program of
Working Women's Forum (India), Tamil Nadu.
A-8 Demography of Madras Metropolitan Area; Madras Metropolitan Development
Authority.
A-9 Annual Report 1986-87. Ministry of Health and Family Welfare.
Government of India, New Delhi.
B. Reports and Studies Relevant to the Project
B-1 World Bank Project Proposals. Parts I, II and III; Public Health
Department, Bombay Municipal Corporation, April 1987.
B-2 MCH and Family Planning Services; Report on Bombay, Gule Afruz Marhub,
World Bank Mission March 1988.
B-3 Report on the City of Bombay, Gule Afruz Mahbub, Identification and
Preparation Mission, Metropolitan City Project, 1985.
B-4 Communication Program for Family Planning (IEC Cell): World Bank
Proposal; Art Commercia Advertisers, Pvt. Ltd.



-77-
-77-                    ~~~~~~ANNEX 20
Page 2
B-5 Streetithakahini and Institute of Primary Health Care, Bombay, Proposal
for Bombay Municipal Corporation, Fifth Population Project, 1987.
B-6 Madras Metropolitan Area Project Report; Directorate of Family Welfare,
Tamil Nadu - October 1987.
B-7 Report of Working Group Meetings for World Bank Aided Population Project
for Madras Metropolitan Area, Directorate of Family Welfare, November,
1987.
B-8 Working Women's Forum (India) Grass Root Health Care; Family Planning
and MCH Pra.ject Proposal to GOI, 1985.
B-9 Survey of Slums in Madras Metropolitan Area. Madras Metropolitan
Development Authority - October 1987.
B-10  MCH and Family Planning Services; Report on Madras Cule Afruz Mahbub -
World Bank Mission, March 1986.
B-ll  Management Information Systems; Bombay and Madras Population Project;
Olson, Clifford - John Snow Incorporated, October 1986.
B-12  Management Report - Ranken, J.P. (Consultant) World Bank Mission, Bombay
and Madras Population Project, October 1986.
B-13  Training Report.  Lawrence, John, E. (Consultant) World Bank Mission,
Bombay and Madras Population Project. November 1986.
B-14  Grants-in-Aid to PVOs in Family Welfare and Health in India (Maharashtra
and Tamil Nadu) Guhan, S. (Consultant) November 1986.
C. Working PaRers. Tables. Drawings
C-1    Set of Working Papers, February 1988.



CHART 1
INDIA
FIFTH (BOMBAY AND MADRAS) POPULATION PROJECT
PUBLIC HEALTH DEPARTMENT MUNICIPAL CORPORATION OF GREATER BOMBAY
Deputy Municipal Commissioner
Deansir
-3 Medicail cdlogies
-I Dental College                 E ecutlve            Medical Supdt                 M  S              Director Peripheial
Healtih Oflicer         lTD  Hospitlet)            (Leprosyl             Hospitals (13(
Medical    Innen1-         AHtO           AHO        DFHO               DEH 0            DEHO             D DEHO          MO  (STDI
Sulpdt      jcune        (EporJo-       E'pan"Ied    (HO ICit> Ivvl                            IES I                       nI (salRly
(InI ic I-  Olif el        minlo-      Pi   OT sm tml                                                                     Transmiled
iin                       Ost)         Immurnl-     1 A HO             1 A HO-I         1 A HO -IV      1)A H O -lii     Dlsoaese)
H(,F.I)r~                  MrA}IIrj Honilh              I r>01c         2 A H O -_l      2 A H O
Hr.FAI I                   Hoalth
2 Arlmini-                            Malaria
Stinflon       3 MO
(itfurar          I .hnote
.3 .'lrwp-        4 MtrniplnI
rt NLuririlg   5 A HO  tIBI
t1ier vicar,
ti Cnttlo
ottior
7 rpnr ,,
tfurf, p  IC
*,,,,.- .)III
tMritr ii uil
.Jhllii HI-Inltlr
Wolferol
r,lull(l~~~~~~~~~~~~i a4102n
L ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~61t



CHART 2
INDIA
FIFTH (BOMBAY AND MADRAS) POPULATION PROJECT
PUBLIC HEALTH DEPARTMENT MADRAS IMUNCIPAL CORPORATION
Madras
Mu.dclpal Corporation
Health Department
Comnlaoe
Health Officer                       Addtional
(Publc Hetith,                     Health Ott1ckr                    Dist Famly  ltere
(MCHQ                           Medical Officer
I                            F.W Department
___________ _  44 Chld
WelSFar Centres
70 Dbspon-        TB 1-ospital        Miklr1a
senari         Lopxosy ClIc                                          33 Urban P. WCentrec           8uervidlon
Communicable
Disease Hospltai                                         29 Health Posts
4 Post Partum Centres
Govewinent                  Private
4 Urban FWC                 Voluntary
*                   Organizations
4 Poet Partumn             12 Urban FW
Centre&
I Posl Partum
Cenlre
sh'w4 1043.



INDIA                                                      CHART 3
FIFTH (BOMBAY AND MADRAS) POPULATION PROJECT
BOMBAY: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ORGANIZATION
Depuly Mnliclpnl Commissioner
I
Executive Health Officer
I
Additional Executive Health Ofticer (piolect)
r                                                                I
Dy Exocutivo Honilth Otfiror                                     Dy Executive Health Officor
iFemily Welfaie)                                                  (Coordination)
I                                                                I
Pros      A HO           A H O          A H O          A HO             Managnment        Information      Training      Other
(Fannily      (Family        iF5mily        (Family             atnor isatlol  Education &       (A H OI     Programs
Wolfaro        Wellatre       Wollarc        Woltnio             Systom        Coordinatlon
Buleau         Buroau         Burontr       HospitEil)         iStatistical     (A P R 0 or
City)        Eastoin        Westein            1                Offlcert         AHO}
Subur bst     Suburbsl
I              I              I
MOH    MOH    MOH
(Walds)        IWaids)        (Warid)
9              7              fl
| I  I                                   MO n ModicRl Officol
JR MOH . Junior Morical Officor of Hoalth
MS W9          MS W7          MS W8                                       MOH   Medilcal Officer Health
JI M O H 9     Ai M O H 7     Jr M O H 8                                    AHO . Additional Hoalth Otficer
I              I              I
Hoalth PosI Halth Post   HealIh Post
MO             MO             MO
ekvd t1104Pc



INDIA                                                  CHART 4
FIFTH (BOMBAY AND MADRAS) POPULATION PROJECT
MADRAS: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ORGAiMZATION
HEALTH SECRETARY
PROJECT DIRECTOR
080                                   Madras Corporation
I ---    I                    CoT~~~~~~~eet
Govt. Morlical    Projoct Cooldnato,s       Project Coordnator
P VO s       Coliogos/PP          4 MunLcpailties
Centers            4 Townships
Planning        Training Cel             Coll
a Adrnncell       (Prog Otfr           (Prog
District Farlily Woliaro                    Assistant Health
i3ra ts                   Medical Officer                            Officer (MCCH)
IEC Coli           Accounts.
(Prog Oft )          Auditing                                                                I.E.C.         Training
(Prog Otr|                                                             DDFWMO          DDFWMO
IIEC)         (Traning)
Planning   Admii              Grants        lonal         13  ona
00 wmo                  AccJounts &     Centers        Ce
(Adnin                   Slares
MIS Adriin OfficorHalhPseln    £
DDFWMO                                 (5 each 2One)                  oiAdnm Cl
(MIES)
IEC S Trg Cell
0 S D.- Officer on special duty
EK4 1042b



MAP SECTION



IBRD  20507
I                     *..)._. HIMACHAL  *.
PRADESH
PAKISTAN                              r  , C
JPUNJAB                                                   C H. CHN A
/        -  HARYANA                                        _ $,
Ne. DeIlh.SKK
.                                    W l UTTAR  PRADESH                  G._Gansto(  BHIJTAN
tRAJASTHAN Jopf/&t ;3 >t\i_ -
/~~~                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~   .- /       >on             2             .
,_.NeX p_ g              tS X  BIHAR     (-BANGLADESH
GUJARAT                                                                                                ma J  8OI  AS4er n
Gwndhmnagao,               MADHYA  PRADESH                                       9WEST  'j
9  Y _ ) / ' i_-4- _                                                  (
14 ^'4                             -       ORISSA
70t  ,R   AHARA         A< }? Bhuboneswos
-201    ~ ~      ~      -         MAHARASHTRA 
INDIA
.6J '                     \< ] / POPULATION
Hyderbod PONDICHERRY                    PROJECTS
r        I  ~~~~ANDHRA            'IC
PRADESH                         Fifth (Bombay - Madras)
Population Project
Ponj.m;&t    r   ,J ?
GOA  £    ~  sp >      \s    Population Project IV Project Districts
Population Projects 1I and III
Projet Areas (Ongoing)
KARNATAkA-  _'J MARAS                  Population Project I Project Are
KARNATAK                                     A          '  _ X (416  9 9- -    (Completed Decmber 31, 1980)
I   Stote Capitals
* TAMILONADU   PONDICHERRY          e    National Capital
TAMIL  NADU                    -   -  Ditrict Boundories
KERAI,A                                  - -    State and Union Territory Boundaries
Tvandrum                                           t ---htrnotional Boundaries
o        200         oo        Soo                                    SRI          Due to scale consideration some areas could
Kilometere                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~not be included in the mapi see test for any
Kilonlotors                                             LANKA          information that may apply to such area.
foCn.s. dTSWb flI b.1    on  r 5WS    WL nobO
JANUARY 1988



..-   - ~ ~ .... ......
*  0                     -~~~~~~~~~~ 
S~~~~~
-U~~~~~~~~~~ --4
It~~~~~~~~~~~
z I, ~ ~ ~ ~     ~      ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  



I_  FH oeJl+4  r                                                   ' [9 D I A
rrv  2 -                  FIFTH  (BOMBAY  - MADRAS) POPULATION  PROJECT
INDIA                                  CITY OF MADRAS, TOWNSHIPS AND  MUNICIPALITIES
LANKA
o              '    !     '              r                " 
.,-1-    -- 3 4                                              1 /
MNJU
A)i                                                    X                MANAL
-   /                                 \      \                      / ! ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TlRtI/OTTIYlI
.1                                                  MA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~D4AVARA
/        (     BA' OF BENGAL
AM A                                           I
r
NA    "pbm Af
z  u a1- E- - / - / ), X r X .-  w m
, S__        /                 s j~~~~~~~-       I,...,                   1                                                 .
< _. <, st ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~orv S
r ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~W



