Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 1931 IN
          (Fifth (Bombay and Madras) Population Project)
                               among
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                                and
                        STATE OF TAMIL NADU
                                and
               THE MADRAS CITY MUNICIPAL CORPORATION
                                and
            THE MUNICIPAL CORPORATION OF GREATER BOMBAY
                     Dated September 16, 1988
                         PROJECT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT,  dated  September  16,  1988  among  INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association)  and  the STATE OF TAMIL
NADU  (Tamil  Nadu),  acting  by  its  Governor,  the  Madras City
Municipal  Corporation  (MMC)  and  the  Municipal  Corporation of
Greater Bombay (BMC).
     WHEREAS by  the  Development  Credit  Agreement  of even date
herewith between India, acting by its President (the Borrower) and
the Association, the Association  has  agreed to make available to
the Borrower an amount  in  various currencies equivalent to forty
one million Special Drawing Rights  (SDR 41,000,000), on the terms
and conditions set forth in  the Development Credit Agreement, but
only on condition  that  Tamil  Nadu,  MMC  and  BMC each agree to
undertake such obligations toward the Association as are set forth
in this Agreement;
     WHEREAS Tamil Nadu,  MMC  and  BMC,  in  consideration of the
Association's entering into the  Development Credit Agreement with
the Borrower, have each  agreed  to  undertake the obligations set
Page  2
forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                            Definitions
     Section 1.01.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several terms defined  in  the  Development  Credit Agreement, the
Preamble to this Agreement  and  in  the General Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
                            ARTICLE II
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 2.01. (a) Tamil Nadu,  MMC  and BMC each declares its
commitment to  the  objectives  of  the  Project  as  set forth in
Schedule 2 to the Development  Credit Agreement, and, to this end:
(i) Tamil Nadu shall carry  out  such  parts of the Project as are
located in Chingleput (ii) MMC  shall  carry out such parts of the
Project as are located in  Madras  City; and (iii) BMC shall carry
out such parts of the Project  as  are located in Greater Bombay,
with  due  diligence  and   efficiency   and  in  conformity  with
appropriate administrative, financial,  engineering and health and
family welfare  practices,  and  shall  provide,  or  cause  to be
provided, promptly as needed,  the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the Project.
     (b)  Without limitation upon the  provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Association, Tamil Nadu, MMC and
BMC shall otherwise agree, Tamil Nadu, MMC and BMC shall carry out
the Project  in  accordance  with  the  Implementation Program set
forth in Schedule 2  to  this  Agreement,  as such Schedule may be
amended from time to  time  by  agreement  among the Borrower, the
Association, Tamil Nadu, MMC and BMC.
     Section  2.02.  Except  as  the  Association  shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the  goods,  works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit shall be governed  by  the  provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement.
     Section 2.03. Tamil Nadu,  MMC  and  BMC  shall carry out the
obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and
9.08 of the  General  Conditions  (relating  to  insurance, use of
goods and  services,  plans  and  schedules,  records and reports,
maintenance and land acquisition,  respectively) in respect of the
Project Agreement as follows: (i)  Tamil  Nadu, in respect of such
parts of the Project as  are  carried out in Chingleput; (ii) MMC,
in respect of such  parts  of  the  Project  as are carried out in
Madras City; and  (iii)  BMC,  in  respect  of  such  parts of the
Project as are carried out in Greater Bombay.
     Section 2.04. (a) Tamil Nadu, MMC  and BMC shall each, at the
request of the  Association,  exchange  views with the Association
with regard to the progress of the Project, the performance of its
obligations under this  Agreement,  and  other matters relating to
the purposes of the Credit.
     (b)  Tamil Nadu, MMC and  BMC  shall each promptly inform the
Association of  any  condition  which  interferes  or threatens to
interfere with the progress of  the Project, the accomplishment of
the purposes of the Credit, or  the performance by Tamil Nadu, MMC
or BMC, respectively of its obligations under this Agreement.
     Section 2.05. Tamil Nadu shall take all action which shall be
necessary on its part  to  enable  MMC  to perform its obligations
under the  Project  Agreement  including  the  provision of funds,
facilities, services, land and  other  resources required for this
purpose and shall not take or  permit to be taken any action which
Page  3
would prevent  or  interfere  with  the  performance  of  any such
obligation of MMC.
     Section 2.06. Tamil  Nadu  shall  make  available  to MMC the
proceeds of the Credit  made  available  by  the Borrower to Tamil
Nadu pursuant  to  Section  3.01  (b)  of  the  Development Credit
Agreement in accordance  with  its  standard  arrangements for the
passing on of funds for family welfare assistance.
                            ARTICLE III
                   Financial and other Covenants
     Section 3.01. (a)  Tamil  Nadu,  MMC  and BMC shall maintain,
records and accounts adequate to  reflect in accordance with sound
accounting practices  its  operations  and  financial condition in
respect of the Project.
     (b)  Tamil Nadu, MMC and BMC shall each:
          (i)  have its records, accounts and financial statements
               (balance sheets, statements  of income and expenses
               and related statements)  in  respect of the Project
               for each fiscal  year  audited,  in accordance with
               appropriate   auditing    principles   consistently
               applied, by independent  auditors acceptable to the
               Association;
         (ii)  furnish to the  Association  as  soon as available,
               but in any case  not  later  than nine months after
               the end of each such  year: (A) certified copies of
               its  financial  statements  for  such  year  as  so
               audited, and (B) the  report  of such audit by said
               auditors, of such scope  and  in such detail as the
               Association shall have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the  Association  such other information
               concerning  said  records,  accounts  and financial
               statements as well  as  the  audit  thereof, as the
               Association  shall  from  time  to  time reasonably
               request.
                            ARTICLE IV
                   Effective Date; Termination;
                    Cancellation and Suspension
     Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon  which  the  Development Credit Agreement becomes
effective.
     Section 4.02. (a) This  Agreement  and all obligations of the
Association  and  of  Tamil   Nadu,  MMC  and  BMC,  respectively,
thereunder shall terminate  on  the  earlier  of the following two
dates:
          (i)  the date on which  the Development Credit Agreement
               shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
         (ii)  the date 20 years after the date of this Agreement.
     (b)  If  the  Development   Credit  Agreement  terminates  in
accordance with its terms  before  the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this  Section,  the  Association shall promptly notify
Tamil Nadu, MMC and BMC of this event.
     Section 4.03.  All  the  provisions  of  this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
                             ARTICLE V
Page  4
                     Miscellaneous Provisions
     Section 5.01. Any notice or  request required or permitted to
be given or made  under  this  Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by  this  Agreement  shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be  deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall  be  delivered  by  hand  or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the  party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or  made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or  at  such  other  address  as  such  party shall have
designated by notice to  the  party  giving  such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
     For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                    Telex:
                INDEVAS                       440098 (ITT)
                Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA) or
                                               64145 (WUI)
     For Tamil Nadu:
          Secretary, Health and Family Welfare Department
          Fort St. George
          Madras 600009
          India
     For MMC:
          Municipal Commissioner
          Madras City Municipal Corporation
          Madras, Tamil Nadu
          India,
     For BMC:
          Municipal Commissioner for Greater Bombay
          Mahapalika Marg
          Fort, Bombay-1
          India
     Section 5.02. (a)  Any  action  required  or  permitted to be
taken, and any  document  required  or  permitted  to be executed,
under this Agreement  on  behalf  of  Tamil  Nadu  may be taken or
executed by its  Secretary,  Health  and Family Welfare Department
or such other person or  persons  as the Secretary shall designate
in writing,  and  Tamil  Nadu  shall  furnish  to  the Association
sufficient  evidence  of  the   authority  and  the  authenticated
specimen signature of each such person.
     (b)  any action required or  permitted  to  be taken, and any
document  required  or  permitted   to  be  executed,  under  this
Agreement on  behalf  of  MMC  may  be  taken  or  executed by its
Municipal Commissioner or  such  other  person  or  persons as the
Municipal Commissioner shall designate  in  writing, and MMC shall
furnish  to  the   Association   the  authenticated  specimen  and
signature of each such person.
     (c)  Any action required or  permitted  to  be taken, and any
document  required  or  permitted   to  be  executed,  under  this
Agreement on  behalf  of  BMC  may  be  taken  or  executed by its
Municipal Commissioner or  such  other  person  or  persons as the
Municipal Commissioner shall designate  in  writing, and BMC shall
furnish to the  Association  sufficient  evidence of the authority
Page  5
and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
     Section 5.03.  This  Agreement  may  be  executed  in several
counterparts,  each  of  which  shall  be  an  original,  and  all
collectively but one instrument.
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                    INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                    By /s/ A. Karaosmanoglu
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                              Asia
                    STATE OF TAMIL NADU
                    By /s/ Anil Kumar
                                         Authorized Representative
                    MADRAS CITY MUNICIPAL CORPORATION
                    By /s/ Anil Kumar
                                         Authorized Representative
                    MUNICIPAL CORPORATION OF GREATER BOMBAY
                    By /s/ Anil Kumar
                                         Authorized Representative
                            SCHEDULE 1
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I:   Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
     Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under  contracts  awarded  in  accordance with procedures
consistent with those  set  forth  in  Sections  I  and  II of the
"Guidelines for  Procurement  under  IBRD  Loans  and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
     In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A  hereof,  goods  manufactured  in India may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55  and  2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Page  6
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for  civil  works  up  to  an  aggregate  amount of
$9,000,000, may be awarded,  on  the basis of competitive bidding,
advertised locally, in accordance  with procedures satisfactory to
the Association.
2.   Goods and vehicles estimated to cost less than the equivalent
of $250,000 but more than  the equivalent of $25,000 per contract,
up to an aggregate amount of $4,000,000 equivalent may be procured
under contracts  awarded  on  the  basis  of  competitive bidding,
advertised locally, in accordance  with procedures satisfactory to
the Association.
3.   Items or group  of  items  estimated  to  cost  less than the
equivalent of $25,000 per contract,  up  to an aggregate amount of
$500,000 equivalent  may  be  procured  under quotations solicited
from a  list  of  at  least  three  suppliers  eligible  under the
Guidelines, in  accordance  with  procedures  satisfactory  to the
Association.
4.   Laparoscopes under Part A of  the  Project up to an aggregate
amount of  $150,000  equivalent  may  be  procured under contracts
negotiated directly with one  or  more suppliers of such equipment
in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association.
Part D:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
     (a)  With respect to each contract  referred  to in Part A of
this Schedule, as well as each  contract  under Part C (1) of this
Schedule estimated  to  cost  more  than  $100,000  equivalent per
contract, the  procedures  set  forth  in  paragraphs  2  and 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines  shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made  out  of  the Special Account, such proce-
dures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of
the contract required to be  furnished to the Association pursuant
to said paragraph  2  (d)  shall  be  furnished to the Association
prior to the  making  of  the  first  payment  out  of the Special
Account in respect of such contract.
     (b)  With respect to each  contract  not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set  forth  in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to  the  Guidelines  shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to  be  made  out  of  the Special Account, such
procedures shall be  modified  to  ensure  that  the two conformed
copies  of  the  contract  together  with  the  other  information
required to  be  furnished  to  the  Association  pursuant to said
paragraph 3 shall be furnished  to  the Association as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to  paragraph 4 of Schedule 3 to
the Development Credit Agreement.
     (c)  The provisions of  the  preceding  subparagraphs (a) and
(b)  shall  not  apply  to  contracts  on  account  of  which  the
Association has authorized withdrawals  from the Credit Account on
the basis of statements  of  expenditure.  Such contracts shall be
retained  in  accordance  with  Section   4.01  (a)  (ii)  of  the
Development Credit Agreement.
2.   The  figure  of  15%  is  hereby  specified  for  purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II:  Employment of Consultants
     In order to assist Tamil  Nadu,  MMC  and BMC in carrying out
the  Project,  each  of   them   shall  employ  consultants  whose
qualifications, experience and terms  and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to  the  Association. Such consultants shall
be  selected  in   accordance   with   principles  and  procedures
Page  7
satisfactory to the Association  on  the  basis of the "Guidelines
for the Use of  Consultants  by  World  Bank  Borrowers and by the
World Bank as Executing  Agency"  published  by the Bank in August
1981.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                      Implementation Program
Tamil Nadu, MMC and BMC
1.   Tamil Nadu, MMC and  BMC  shall  each prepare and transmit to
the Association by January  31  of  each year the following annual
plans in respect of the next financial year:
     (a)  program for construction activities under the Project;
     (b)  training plan;
     (c)  IEC plan; and
     (d)  MIES plan.
2.   Tamil Nadu, MMC and  BMC  shall  each take necessary steps to
(a) ensure that HPs are  provided with adequate suitably qualified
staff and resources;  and  (b)  improve  the  effectiveness of the
outreach program for the delivery of family welfare services.
3.   Tamil Nadu, MMC  and  BMC  shall  each  take necessary steps,
including appointment of an  adequate number of suitably qualified
staff and the  establishment  of  supervisory  committees, for the
improvement of the management of family welfare services.
4.   (a)  Tamil Nadu, MMC and BMC  shall each take necessary steps
to  strengthen  monitoring   and   evaluation  of  family  welfare
services.
     (b)  Tamil Nadu, MMC  and  BMC  shall  each  undertake: (i) a
baseline  survey  for  the  purposes  of  Project  monitoring  and
evaluation  which  shall  be   completed   and  submitted  to  the
Association no later than June 30, 1989; (ii) studies of the needs
and preferences of slum-dwellers in order to better understand the
determinants of their behavior  regarding family size (beneficiary
study) and studies to assess  the  training needs and potential of
PMPs which shall be completed  and submitted to the Association no
later than March 31, 1989;  and  (iii) a series of smaller studies
and a final surveys  for  the  purposes  of Project monitoring and
evaluation, as agreed with the Association.
5.   Tamil Nadu,  MMC  and  BMC  shall:  (a)  undertake a mid-term
review of  the  progress  of  the  Project  (including management,
beneficiary, PVO and PMP  assessments) and their respective family
welfare  programs  in  relation  to  the  Project  under  terms of
reference acceptable to the  Association; (b) furnish the findings
and recommendations of such  review, together with proposed action
plans to overcome  problems,  to  the  Association  for review and
comments no later than December  31,  1992; and (c) take necessary
action to implement such  findings  and recommendations, as may be
agreed with the Association.
Tamil Nadu
6.   Tamil Nadu shall  establish  training,  IEC,  MIES and grants
cells in its Department of Family Welfare.
MMC
7.   MMC shall establish training  and  MIES cells in its District
Family Welfare Bureau.
BMC
Page  8
8.   BMC shall  establish  training,  IEC  and  MIES  cells in its
Central Coordination Office  with responsibility for collaborating
with local training and  other  institutions  and for carrying out
Project activities.
