Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 1931 IN
           (Fifth (Bombay and Madras) Population Project)
                              between
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                                and
                       STATE OF MAHARASHTRA
                     Dated September 16, 1988
                       MAHARASHTRA AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated  September  16,  1988, between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter  called  the Association) and
THE STATE  OF  MAHARASHTRA,  acting  by  its Governor (hereinafter
called Maharashtra).
     WHEREAS (A) by the Development  Credit Agreement of even date
herewith  between  India,  acting  by  its  President (hereinafter
called the  Borrower)  and  the  Association,  the Association has
agreed to make  available  to  the  Borrower  an amount in various
currencies equivalent to forty  one million Special Drawing Rights
(SDR  41,000,000)  the  terms  and  conditions  set  forth  in the
Development  Credit  Agreement,   but   only   on  condition  that
Maharashtra  agree  to  undertake   such  obligations  toward  the
Association as are set forth in this Agreement;
     (B)  by an agreement of even  date among the Association, the
State of  Tamil  Nadu  (Tamil  Nadu),  the  Madras  City Municipal
Corporation (MMC) and the  Municipal Corporation of Greater Bombay
(BMC) (the Project Agreement), Tamil  Nadu,  MMC and BMC have each
agreed to undertake certain obligations in respect of the carrying
out of the Project; and
     WHEREAS Maharashtra,  in  consideration  of the Association's
Page  2
entering into the Development  Credit Agreement with the Borrower,
has agreed to undertake the  obligations  set forth in this Agree-
ment;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                            Definitions
     Section 1.01.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several terms defined  in  the  Development  Credit Agreement, the
Preamble to this Agreement  and  in  the General Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
                            ARTICLE II
                       Particular Covenants
     Section 2.01. (a) Maharashtra shall cooperate fully to assure
that the purpose of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end,
Maharashtra shall, at  the  request  of  the Association, exchange
views with  the  Association  with  regard  to  the performance of
Maharashtra's obligations under this Agreement, the performance by
BMC  of  its   obligations   under   the  Project  Agreement,  the
management, structure,  administration,  operations, resources and
expenditures of BMC and other  matters  relating to the purpose of
the Credit.
     (b)  Maharashtra shall take all  action which shall be neces-
sary on its part to  enable  BMC  to perform its obligations under
the Project Agreement  including  the  provision of funds, facili-
ties, services and other  resources  required for this purpose and
shall not take  or  permit  to  be  taken  any  action which would
prevent or interfere with  the  performance of any such obligation
of BMC.
     (c)  Maharashtra shall promptly inform the Association of any
condition which  interferes  or  threatens  to  interfere with the
progress of the project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit, or the performance  by  BMC  of  its obligations under the
Project Agreement.
     Section 2.02. Maharashtra  shall  make  available  to BMC the
proceeds  of  the  Credit  made   available  by  the  Borrower  to
Maharashtra pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of the Development Credit
Agreement in accordance  with  its  standard  arrangements for the
passing on of funds for family welfare assistance.
     Section 2.03. Maharashtra shall carry out the obligations set
forth in Sections 9.03,  9.04,  9.05,  9.06,  9.07 and 9.08 of the
General  Conditions  (relating  to  insurance,  use  of  goods and
services, plans and  schedules,  records  and reports, maintenance
and land acquisition, respectively)  in respect of the Maharashtra
Agreement.
                            ARTICLE III
                   Effective Date; Termination;
                    Cancellation and Suspension
     Section 3.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon  which  the  Development Credit Agreement becomes
effective.
     Section 3.02. (a) This  Agreement  and all obligations of the
Association and of  Maharashtra  hereunder  shall terminate on the
earlier of the following two dates:
          (i)  the date on which  the Development Credit Agreement
               shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
Page  3
         (ii)  a date 20 years after the date of this Agreement.
     (b)  If  the  Development   Credit  Agreement  terminates  in
accordance with its terms  before  the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this  Section,  the  Association shall promptly notify
Maharashtra of this event.
     Section 3.03.  All  the  provisions  of  this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE IV
                     Miscellaneous Provisions
     Section 4.01. Any notice or  request required or permitted to
be given or made  under  this  Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by  this  Agreement  shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be  deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall  be  delivered  by  hand  or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the  party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or  made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have desig-
nated by notice to  the  party  giving  such notice or making such
request. The addresses so specified are:
     For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                     Telex:
               INDEVAS                          440098 (ITT)
               Washington, D.C.                 248423 (RCA) or
                                                 64145 (WUI)
     For Maharashtra:
          The Chief Secretary to
            the Government of Maharashtra
          Sachivalaya, Bombay
          India
          Cable address:
               RESTIS
               Bombay
     Section 4.02. Any action  required  or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or  permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of Maharashtra  may  be taken or executed by a
Secretary to the Government of Maharashtra or such other person or
persons as Maharashtra shall designate in writing, and Maharashtra
shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of the autho-
rity and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
     Section 4.03. This Agreement may be executed in several coun-
terparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collectively
but one instrument.
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
representatives,  thereunto  duly  authorized,  have  caused  this
Agreement to be signed in  their  respective names in the District
of Columbia, Unites States  of  America,  as  of  the day and year
first above written.
                   INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Page  4
                   By /s/ A. Karaosmanoglu
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                              Asia
                   STATE OF MAHARASHTRA
                   By /s/ Anil Kumar
                                         Authorized Representative
