Page  1
                                                        February 9, 1990
The Secretary to the Government of India
Ministry of Finance
Department of Economic Affairs
New Delhi, India
      Re:   Development Credit No. 1931-IN
            Fifth (Bombay and Madras) Population Project
            Amendment of the Development Credit Agreement
Dear Sir:
      We refer to the Development Credit Agreement  (Fifth (Bombay and
Madras)  Population Project),  dated September 16,  1988, between India (the
Borrower) and the International Development Association (the Association).
We also refer to the letter dated October 30, 1989 from Mr. J.L. Bajaj,
Joint Secretary,  Government of India,  requesting the Association to make
certain amendments in the said Agreement.
      The Association is pleased to inform you that, pursuant to the above
request,  the Association hereby agrees to amend the Development Credit
Agreement as set out in the Attachment hereto.  The percentage of
expenditures to be financed as amended hereby, will apply to all withdrawal
applications for which disbursements are made after the date on which this
letter is confirmed, provided, however, that such withdrawal applications
are in respect of eligible expenditures that have been incurred on or after
November 1, 1988, and for which withdrawal applications have not previously
been submitted.
      Please confirm the agreement on behalf of the Borrower to the
foregoing amendment by signing and dating the confirmation form on the
enclosed copy of this letter and returning it to us for our records.  A copy
of this letter is being sent to the State of Maharashtra, State of Tamil
Nadu, Madras City Municipal Corporation, and Municipal Corporation of
Greater Bombay for information.
                                     Sincerely,
                                    Michael Gould
                                   Acting Director
                                Country Department IV
                                     Asia Region
CONFIRMED:
India
By    /s/ J. L. Bajaj
Authorized Representative
Date
cc:   State of Maharashtra
      State of Tamil Nadu
      Madras City Municipal Corporation
      Municipal Corporation of Greater Bombay
                                                               ATTACHMENT
                                                     (CREDIT NO. 1931-IN)
1.    Schedule 1.  The table set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
the Development Credit Agreement is amended as per Annex I to this
Attachment.
2.    Schedule 2.  The description of the Project is revised as per Annex
Page  2
II to this Attachment.
                                                                  ANNEX I
                                                            TO ATTACHMENT
                                                     (CREDIT NO. 1931-IN)
                              Amount of the
                              Credit Allocated      % of
                              (Expressed in     Expenditures
Category                      SDR Equivalent)   to be Financed
(1)   Civil works and         12,800,000        85%
      professional fees
(2)   Equipment, books,       6,300,000         100% of foreign
      furniture and vehicles                    expenditures
                                                100 % of local
                                                expenditures (ex-factory
                                                cost) and 85% of local
                                                expenditures for other
                                                items procured locally
(3)   Consultants'            3,300,000         100%
      services and
      local and overseas
      fellowships
(4)   Staff salaries          16,300,000        100% of expendi-
      materials and                             tures until
      operation and                             June 30, 1990
      maintenance costs
                                                90 % of expenditures
                                                until June 30, 1991
                                                80% of expenditures until
                                                June 30, 1992
                                                70% of expenditures until
                                                June 30, 1993
                                                60% of expenditures until
                                                June 30, 1994
                                                45% of expenditures until
                                                June 30, 1995
(5)   Unallocated        2,300,000
            Total       41,000,000
                                                                 ANNEX II
                                                            TO ATTACHMENT
                                                     (CREDIT NO. 1931-IN)
                                SCHEDULE 2
                        Description of the Project
      The main objective of the  Project  is  to assist  the  Borrower in
implementing its policies and programs for further improving the service
delivery and outreach systems, and the management and organization, of
family welfare services in urban slum areas as part of the Borrower's
national Urban Revamping Scheme.
      The Project will be carried out in Greater Bombay,  Madras City,
the district of Chingleput and other municipalities or urban areas of
Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu with which or in respect whereof the Borrower
has entered into an agreement on terms and conditions acceptable to the
Association.  It will consist of the following parts, subject to such
modifications as may be agreed upon between the Borrower and the
Page  3
Association from time to time:
Part A:     Expansion of Delivery of Family Welfare Services
1.  Establishment of new HPs as well as the expansion and strengthening of
selected existing HPs.
2.  Expansion and strengthening of outreach programs in slum areas to
increase access to,  and the quality and effectiveness of,  available family
welfare services  (with emphasis on birth spacing,  temporary birth control
methods, pre-and post-natal  care,  identification and management  of
high-risk pregnancies, the systemization of referral procedures and the
immunization of children and pregnant women) as well as to strengthen the
promotional and preventive aspects of public health.
3.  Expansion of service delivery by strengthening of selected post-partum
centers as well as the upgrading of family welfare facilities at selected
hospitals.
4.  Support for social marketing of contraceptives.
5.  Support for compensation by the Borrower to acceptors of family planning
methods.
6.  Construction of family welfare centers.
Part B:     Improvement of Quality of Family Welfare Services:
      Provision of training and educational materials, equipment and
incremental staff to improve the quality of family welfare services in
slum areas.
Part C:     Strengthening of the Management of Family Welfare Services
1.  Strengthening of the management capacity of institutions involved in
the planning, management, and delivery of family welfare services by
improvements in organization structure, and upgrading of staff and
facilities.
2.  Improvement of the monitoring and evaluation of family welfare
programs including the carrying out of studies towards that end.
3.  Development of IEC programs including provision of relevant training.
Part D:     Expansion of the Participation of Private Voluntary
            Organizations and Private Medical Practitioners in the
            Delivery of Family Welfare Services
1.  Increase participation of PVOS in HPs established or strengthened
under the Project, as well as provision of support for PVO-operated HPs.
2.  Provision of support for PVO training of family welfare  services
personnel.
3.  Provision of support including upgrading of skills and supply of
medicine and related materials to selected PMPs.
                               *     *     *
      The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1995.
