Page  1
                                                   CONFORMED COPY
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 1931 IN
          (Fifth (Bombay and Madras) Population Project)
                              between
                               INDIA
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                     Dated September 16, 1988
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 1931 IN
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated September 16,  1988,  between  INDIA, acting
by its  President  (the  Borrower)  and  INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association).
     WHEREAS (A) the Borrower,  having  satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has  requested  the  Association  to assist in the
financing of the Project;
     (B)  the Project will be  carried  out  by the State of Tamil
Nadu,  the  Madras  City   Municipal  Corporation  (MMC)  and  the
Municipal Corporation of  Greater  Bombay  (BMC) respectively with
the Borrower's assistance  and,  as  part  of such assistance, the
Borrower will make  available  to  the  State  of  Tamil Nadu, MMC
(through the State of Tamil  Nadu)  and  BMC (through the State of
Maharashtra) the  proceeds  of  the  Credit  as  provided  in this
Agreement; and
     WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
Page  2
of the foregoing, to extend  the  Credit  to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth  in  this Agreement, in the Project
Agreement of even  date  herewith  among  the  Association and the
State of Tamil Nadu, MMC and  BMC and in the Maharashtra Agreement
of even date herewith  between  the  Association  and the State of
Maharashtra;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.O1. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the  last  sentence  of  Section  3.02  deleted  (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.O2.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several  terms  defined  in  the  General  Conditions  and  in the
Preamble to this  Agreement  have  the respective meanings therein
set forth and the  following  additional  terms have the following
meanings:
     (a)  "Project  Agreement"  means   the  agreement  among  the
Association, Tamil Nadu, MMC and BMC of even date herewith, as the
same may be amended from time  to time, and such term includes all
schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
     (b)  "Maharashtra Agreement" means  the agreement between the
Association and Maharashtra of even date herewith, as the same may
be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules
and agreements supplemental to the Maharashtra Agreement;
     (c)  "State"  or   "States"   means   a   state   or  states,
respectively, of the Borrower;
     (d)  "Tamil Nadu" means Tamil  Nadu,  a  State of India, or a
successor thereto;
     (e)  "Maharashtra" means Maharashtra, a  State of India, or a
successor thereto;
     (f)  "Chingleput" means the  district  of Chingleput in Tamil
Nadu;
     (g)  "DOHFW"  means  the  Directorate  of  Health  and Family
Welfare of Tamil Nadu;
     (h)  "MMC Act" means  the  Madras  City Municipal Corporation
Act, 1919;
     (i)  "MMC" means  the  Madras  City  Municipal Corporation, a
statutory corporation established under the MMC Act;
     (j)  "BMC Act" means  the  Bombay  Municipal Corporation Act,
1888, as amended from time to time;
     (k)  "BMC" means the Municipal Corporation of Greater Bombay,
a statutory corporation established under the BMC Act;
     (l)  "Madras  City"  means  the  area  within  which  MMC has
jurisdiction to exercise its authority pursuant to the MMC Act;
     (m)  "Greater Bombay" means  the  area  within  which BMC has
jurisdiction to exercise its authority pursuant to the BMC Act;
     (n)  "HP" means Health Post;
     (o)  "IEC" means Information, Education and Communication;
     (p)  "MIES"  means  management   information  and  evaluation
Page  3
system;
     (q)  "PVO" means Private Voluntary Organization.
     (r)  "PMP" means Private Medical Practitioner;
     (s)  "FY" means the fiscal year  which  begins on July 1 each
year and ends on June 30 of the following year; and
     (t)  "Special  Account"  means  the  account  referred  to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
     Section 2.O1. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms  and  conditions  set  forth  or  referred  to in the
Development Credit  Agreement,  an  amount  in  various currencies
equivalent to  forty  one  million    Special  Drawing Rights (SDR
41,000,000).
     Section 2.O2. (a) The amount  of  the Credit may be withdrawn
from the  Credit  Account  in  accordance  with  the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this  Agreement  for  expenditures  made (or, if the
Association  shall  so  agree,  to  be  made)  in  respect  of the
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
     (b)  The Borrower shall,  for  the  purposes  of the Project,
open and maintain  in  dollars  in  the  Reserve  Bank  of India a
special  account  on  terms  and  conditions  satisfactory  to the
Association. Deposits  into,  and  payments  out  of,  the Special
Account  shall  be  made  in  accordance  with  the  provisions of
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.O3. The Closing Date  shall be December 31, 1995 or
such  later  date   as   the   Association  shall  establish.  The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge  on  the  principal  amount  of  the  Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
     (b)  The commitment  charge  shall  accrue:  (i)  from a date
sixty days after the date of  this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on  which  amounts  shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit  Account  or  cancelled; (ii) at the rate
set as of June  30  immediately  preceding  the accrual date or at
such other rates  as  may  be  set  from  time  to time thereafter
pursuant to paragraph (a) above.  The  rate  set  as of June 30 in
each year shall be applied  as  of  the  next payment date in that
year specified in Section 2.06  of this Agreement, except that the
rate set as of June 30, 1988 shall be applied as of July 1, 1988.
     (c)  The commitment charge shall be  paid: (i) at such places
as  the  Association   shall   reasonably  request;  (ii)  without
restrictions of any kind imposed  by,  or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in  the  currency  specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section  4.02  of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or  currencies  as may from time time
be designated  or  selected  pursuant  to  the  provisions of that
Section.
     Section 2.O5. The  Borrower  shall  pay  to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal  amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
     Section 2.O6. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
Page  4
payable semiannually on June 15 and December 15 in each year.
     Section 2.07. (a) Subject  to  paragraphs  (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay  the  principal  amount  of the Credit in
semi-annual installments payable on  each  June 15 and December 15
commencing December  15,  1998  and  ending  June  15,  2023. Each
installment to and including  the  installment payable on June 15,
2008  shall  be  one  and  one-fourth  percent  (1-1/4%)  of  such
principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two and
one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
     (b)  Whenever (i) the  Borrower's  gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for  five  consecutive years and (ii) the
Bank shall consider  the  Borrower  creditworthy for Bank lending,
the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof
by the  Executive  Directors  of  the  Association  and  after due
consideration  by  them  of  the  development  of  the  Borrower's
economy, modify  the  terms  of  repayment  of  installments under
paragraph (a) above by requiring  the  Borrower to repay twice the
amount of each such  installment  not  yet due until the principal
amount of the Credit shall  have  been  repaid. If so requested by
the Borrower,  the  Association  may  revise  such modification to
include, in lieu of some or all  of the increase in the amounts of
such installments,  the  payment  of  interest  at  an annual rate
agreed with the Association on  the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the
judgment of the Association,  such  revision  shall not change the
grant  element  obtained   under   the  above-mentioned  repayment
modification.
     (c)  If, at any time  after  a modification of terms pursuant
to  paragraph  (b)  above,  the  Association  determines  that the
Borrower's economic condition  has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so  requested  by the Borrower, further modify
the terms of repayment to  conform to the schedule of installments
as provided in paragraph (a) above.
     Section 2.O8. The  currency  of  the  United States is hereby
specified  for  the  purposes  of  Section  4.O2  of  the  General
Conditions.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 3.O1. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction
upon any of  its  other  obligations  under the Development Credit
Agreement,  shall  cause  Tamil  Nadu,  MMC,  BMC  and Maharashtra
respectively to perform in  accordance  with the provisions of the
Project  Agreement  and  the  Maharashtra  Agreement respectively,
all the  obligations  of  Tamil  Nadu,  MMC,  BMC and Maharashtra,
respectively therein set forth, shall  take  and cause to be taken
all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services
and other  resources,  necessary  or  appropriate  to enable Tamil
Nadu,  MMC,  BMC  and  Maharashtra  respectively  to  perform such
obligations, and shall not take  or  permit to be taken any action
which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
     (b)  The Borrower  shall  make  the  proceeds  of  the Credit
available to Tamil  Nadu  for  such  parts  of  the Project as are
carried out by Tamil  Nadu  and  MMC  and  to Maharashtra for such
parts of the Project as are carried out by BMC, in accordance with
the Borrower's standard arrangements for development assistance to
the States.
     Section  3.02.  Except  as  the  Association  shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the  goods,  works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit shall be governed  by  the  provisions of Schedule 1 to
Page  5
the Project Agreement.
     Section 3.03. The Borrower  and  the Association hereby agree
that the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06,
9.07 and 9.08 of  the  General  Conditions (relating to insurance,
use of  goods  and  services,  plans  and  schedules,  records and
reports, maintenance and land  acquisition, respectively) shall be
carried out (i) pursuant to  Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement
by Tamil Nadu in  respect  of  such  parts  of  the Project as are
carried out in Chingleput, by MMC  in respect of such parts of the
Project as are carried out in Madras City and by BMC in respect of
such parts of the Project  as  are  carried out in Greater Bombay;
and (ii) pursuant to Section  2.04 of the Maharashtra Agreement by
Maharashtra.
                            ARTICLE IV
                   Financial and Other Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) For all  expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the  Credit  Account  were  made  on the basis of
statements of expenditures, the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause  to  be  maintained in accordance
               with  sound   accounting   practices,  records  and
               accounts reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  ensure  that   all   records   (contracts,  orders,
               invoices,  bills,  receipts  and  other  documents)
               evidencing such expenditures  are retained until at
               least one year  after  the Association has received
               the audit report for  the  fiscal year in which the
               last withdrawal from  the  Credit Account was made;
               and
        (iii)  enable the Association's representatives to examine
               such records.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have  the  records  and  accounts  referred  to  in
               paragraph (a) (i) of this Section and those for the
               Special Account for  each  fiscal  year audited, in
               accordance  with  appropriate  auditing  principles
               consistently  applied,   by   independent  auditors
               acceptable to the Association;
         (ii)  furnish to the  Association  as  soon as available,
               but in any case not later than six months after the
               end of each such year  the  report of such audit by
               said auditors, of such scope  and in such detail as
               the Association  shall  have  reasonably requested,
               including a separate opinion by said auditors as to
               whether  the  statements  of  expenditure submitted
               during  such   fiscal   year,   together  with  the
               procedures and internal  controls involved in their
               preparation, can  be  relied  upon  to  support the
               related withdrawals; and
        (iii)  furnish to the  Association  such other information
               concerning said records and  accounts and the audit
               thereof as the Association  shall from time to time
               reasonably request.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Remedies of the Association
     Section 5.O1. Pursuant  to  Section  6.O2  (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  Tamil Nadu  shall  have  failed  to  perform  any of its
Page  6
obligations under the Project Agreement.
     (b)  MMC shall have failed to  perform any of its obligations
under the Project Agreement.
     (c)  BMC shall have failed to  perform any of its obligations
under the Project Agreement.
     (d)  Maharashtra shall  have  failed  to  perform  any of its
obligations under the Maharashtra Agreement.
     (e)  As a result of events which have occurred after the date
of the Development  Credit  Agreement,  an extraordinary situation
shall have arisen which shall  make  it improbable that: (i) Tamil
Nadu, MMC or BMC will be able to perform its obligations under the
Project Agreement; or (ii) Maharashtra will be able to perform its
obligations under the Maharashtra Agreement.
     (f)  The  MMC  Act   shall   have  been  amended,  suspended,
abrogated, repealed  or  waived  so  as  to  affect materially and
adversely the ability of  MMC  to  perform  any of its obligations
under the Project Agreement.
     (g)  The  BMC  Act   shall   have  been  amended,  suspended,
abrogated, repealed  or  waived  so  as  to  affect materially and
adversely the ability of  BMC  to  perform  any of its obligations
under the Project Agreement.
     (h)  The Borrower or any  other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the disestablishment of either BMC
or MMC or for the  suspension  of  the operations of either BMC or
MMC.
     Section 5.O2. Pursuant  to  Section  7.01  (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  the event specified in paragraphs  (a), (b), (c), or (d)
of Section 5.01 of this  Agreement  shall occur and shall continue
for a period of sixty  days  after  notice thereof shall have been
given by the Association to the Borrower; and
     (b)  the event specified  in  paragraph  (f),  (g)  or (h) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
     Section  6.O1.  The  following  are  specified  as additional
matters, within the meaning  of  Section  12.O2 (b) of the General
Conditions, to  be  included  in  the  opinion  or  opinions to be
furnished to the Association:  (i)  the Project Agreement has been
duly authorized or ratified  by  Tamil  Nadu,  MMC and BMC respec-
tively, and  is  legally  binding  upon  Tamil  Nadu,  MMC and BMC
respectively  in  accordance   with   its   terms;  and  (ii)  the
Maharashtra Agreement  has  been  duly  authorized  or ratified by
Maharashtra and is legally  binding upon Maharashtra in accordance
with its terms.
     Section 6.O2. The date  ninety  (90)  days  after the date of
this Agreement is  hereby  specified  for  the purposes of Section
l2.O4 of the General Conditions.
     Section 6.03. The obligations  of  the Borrower under Section
5.02 of this Agreement shall  cease  and  determine on the date on
which the Development Credit  Agreement  shall terminate or on the
date twenty years  after  the  date  of  this Agreement, whichever
shall be the earlier.
                            ARTICLE VII
            Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Page  7
     Section  7.O1.  Any  Secretary,  Additional  Secretary, Joint
Secretary, Director, Deputy  Secretary  or  Under Secretary of the
Department of Economic Affairs in  the  Ministry of Finance of the
Borrower is designated as  representative  of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 7.O2. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section ll.Ol of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          The Secretary to the Government of India
          Ministry of Finance
          Department of Economic Affairs
          New Delhi, India
          Cable address:                      Telex:
               ECOFAIRS                          953-313546
               New Delhi
     For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 2O433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                      Telex:
               INDEVAS                           44OO98 (ITT)
               Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
                                                  64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                    INDIA
                    By /s/ Anil Kumar
                                         Authorized Representative
                    INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                    By /s/ A. Karaosmanoglu
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                              Asia
                            SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of  the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the  Credit  to  each  Category  and  the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                          Credit Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
Page  8
     Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1)  Civil works and            4,800,000        85%
     professional fees
(2)  Equipment,                 4,300,000        100% of foreign
     books, furniture                            expenditures,
     and vehicles                                100% of local
                                                 expenditures
                                                 (ex-factory cost)
                                                 and 85% of local
                                                 expenditures for
                                                 other items proc-
                                                 ured locally
(3)  Consultants'               3,300,000        100%
     services and
     local and overseas
     fellowships
(4)  Staff salaries,          26,300,000         100% of expen-
     materials and                               ditures incurred
     operation and                               in FY 89
     maintenance costs
                                                 90% of expen-
                                                 ditures incurred
                                                 in FY 90, and 91
                            Amount of the
                          Credit Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
                                                 80% of expen-
                                                 ditures incurred
                                                 in FY 92
                                                 70% of expen-
                                                 ditures incurred
                                                 in FY 93
                                                 60% of expen-
                                                 ditures incurred
                                                 in FY 94
                                                 45% of expen-
                                                 ditures incurred
                                                 in FY 95
(5)  Unallocated                 2,300,000
     TOTAL                    ____________
                               41,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term  "foreign  expenditures"  means expenditures in
the currency of any country  other  than  that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and
     (b)  the term "local expenditures"  means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower  or  for  goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  paragraph  1  above, no
withdrawals  shall  be  made  in  respect  of  payments  made  for
expenditures prior to  the  date  of  this  Agreement, except that
withdrawals, in an aggregate  amount  not exceeding the equivalent
Page  9
of SDR 725,000 may be made in respect of Categories 1 through 4 on
account of payments  made  for  expenditures  before that date but
after November 1, 1987.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
     The main objective of the  Project  is to assist the Borrower
in implementing its  policies  and  programs for further improving
the service delivery and outreach  systems, and the management and
organization, of family welfare  services  in  urban slum areas as
part of the Borrower's national Urban Revamping Scheme.
     The Project will  be  carried  out  in Greater Bombay, Madras
City and parts of the  district  of Chingleput and will consist of
the following  parts,  subject  to  such  modifications  as may be
agreed upon between the Borrower and the Bank from time to time:
Part A:   Expansion of Delivery of Family Welfare Services
1.   Establishment  of  new  HPs  as  well  as  the  expansion and
strengthening of selected existing HPs.
2.   Expansion and  strengthening  of  outreach  programs  in slum
areas to increase access to, and the quality and effectiveness of,
available family welfare services (with emphasis on birth spacing,
temporary birth control methods,  pre-and post-natal care, identi-
fication and management  of  high-risk pregnancies, the systemiza-
tion of referral procedures  and  the immunization of children and
pregnant women)  as  well  as  to  strengthen  the promotional and
preventive aspects of public health.
3.   Expansion of service  delivery  by  strengthening of selected
post-partum centers as  well  as  the  upgrading of family welfare
facilities at selected hospitals.
Part B:   Improvement of Quality of Family Welfare Services
     Provision of  training  and  educational materials, equipment
and incremental staff  to  improve  the  quality of family welfare
services in slum areas.
Part C:   Strengthening  of  the   Management  of  Family  Welfare
          Services
1.   Strengthening  of  the  management  capacity  of institutions
involved in  the  planning,  management,  and  delivery  of family
welfare services by  improvements  in  organization structure, and
upgrading of staff and facilities.
2.   Improvement  of  the  monitoring  and  evaluation  of  family
welfare programs including  the  carrying  out  of studies towards
that end.
3.   Development of IEC  programs  including provision of relevant
training.
Part D:   Expansion  of  the  Participation  of  Private Voluntary
          Organizations and Private  Medical  Practitioners in the
          Delivery of Family Welfare Services
1.   Increase of  participation  of  PVOS  in  HPs  established or
strengthened under the Project,  as  well  as provision of support
for PVO-operated HPs.
2.   Provision of  support  for  PVO  training  of  family welfare
services personnel.
3.   Provision of support including upgrading of skills and supply
of medicine and related materials to selected PMPs.
Page  10
                            *    *    *
     The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1995.
                            SCHEDULE 3
                          Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "eligible Categories"  means Categories 1, 2, 3
and 4 set forth in the table  in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible  expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost  of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed  out  of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated  from  time  to  time  to  the  eligible  Categories  in
accordance with the provisions  of  Schedule  1 to this Agreement;
and
     (c)  the  term  "Authorized   Allocation"   means  an  amount
equivalent to SDR  2,150,000  to  be    withdrawn  from the Credit
Account  and  deposited  in   the   Special  Account  pursuant  to
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments out
of the Special  Account  shall  be  made  exclusively for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Association  has  received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account  has  been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and  subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account may be made as follows:
     (a)  On the basis of  a  request  or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which  add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation, the Association shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from  the  Credit  Account  and  deposit in the
Special Account such amount or  amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
     (b)  The Borrower shall  furnish  to the Association requests
for replenishment of the Special  Account at such intervals as the
Association shall specify.  On  the  basis  of  such requests, the
Association shall withdraw  from  the  Credit  Account and deposit
into the Special  Account  such  amounts  as  shall be required to
replenish the  Special  Account  with  amounts  not  exceeding the
amount of payments made  out  of  the Special Account for eligible
expenditures. All such deposits  shall  be  withdrawn by the Asso-
ciation from  the  Credit  Account  under  the respective eligible
Categories, and in  the  respective  equivalent  amounts, as shall
have been justified  by  the  evidence  supporting the request for
such deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   For each payment  made  by  the  Borrower  out of the Special
Account for which the  Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of  this  Schedule,  the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, prior to or at the time of such request, such and
other  evidence  as  the  Association  shall  reasonably  request,
showing that such payment was made for eligible expenditures.
5.   (a)  Notwithstanding the provisions  of  paragraph  3 of this
Schedule, no further  deposit  into  the  Special Account shall be
made by the Association  when  either  of the following situations
first arises:
          (i)  the  Association  shall  have  determined  that all
               further withdrawals should be  made by the Borrower
               directly from the Credit Account in accordance with
Page  11
               the  provisions  of   Article   V  of  the  General
               Conditions and  paragraph  (a)  of  Section 2.02 of
               this Agreement; or
         (ii)  the total unwithdrawn  amount  of  the Credit allo-
               cated to the eligible  Categories, minus the amount
               of any outstanding  special commitment entered into
               by the Association pursuant  to Section 5.02 of the
               General Conditions  with  respect  to  the Project,
               shall be  equal  to  the  equivalent  of  twice the
               amount of the Authorized Allocation.
     (b)  Thereafter, withdrawal from  the  Credit  Account of the
remaining  unwithdrawn  amount  of  the  Credit  allocated  to the
eligible  Categories   shall   follow   such   procedures  as  the
Association shall specify by notice  to the Borrower. Such further
withdrawals shall be made only  after  and  to the extent that the
Association  shall  have  been  satisfied  that  all  such amounts
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such
notice  will  be   utilized   in   making  payments  for  eligible
expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any payment out of the  Special  Account (i) was made for any
expenditure or in any amount  not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this  Schedule,  or  (ii)  was  not  justified  by the evidence
furnished to the  Association,  the  Borrower shall, promptly upon
notice from the Association deposit  into the Special Account (or,
if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association) an
amount equal to the amount of  such payment or the portion thereof
not  so  eligible  or   justified.   No  further  deposit  by  the
Association into  the  Special  Account  shall  be  made until the
Borrower has made such deposit or refund.
     (b)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any amount outstanding  in  the  Special  Account will not be
required to cover further  payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon  notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such  outstanding  amount  for crediting to the
Credit Account.
