Documt of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
A*~ 32 92 Rg
Report No. P-5454-AR
EIORlDUM AND RECOMMNDTION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPME
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PtOPOSED
PUBLIC ENTERRSE REFORM EXECUTION LOAN (PERzL)
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$23 MILLION
TO THE ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
January 14, 1991
This document has a resticted distrbution and may be wsed by redpiets only in the performance of
their oMchl duties. Its contents may not othrwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Austral (A$)
The austral floats freely against other currencies; on December 12, 1990,
the exchange rate was A$5,000 - US$1.00.
Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31
Principal Abbreviations and Acronyms
AA       Aerolineas Argentinas                    Argentine Airlines
AGP      Asociaci6n General de Puertos            The National Ports System
AyE      Agua y Energia Electrica                 The National Water and
Power Company
BANADE   Banco Nacional de Desarrollo             National Development Bank
CNT      Comisi6n Nacional de                     National Telecommunications
Telecomunicaciones                       Commission
DNV      Direcci6n Nacional de Vialidad           National Highway Authority
ELMA     Empresa de Lineas Maritimas              National Shipping Co.
Argentinas
ENTel    Empresa Nacional de                      National Telephone Company
Telecomunicaciones
FA       Ferrocarriles Argentinos                 Argentine Railways
FM       Ferrocarriles Metropolitanos             Metropolitan Railways
GdE      Gas del Estado                           National Gas Company
HIDRONOR Hidroelectrica Norpatagonica             The Power Generating Company
of Argentina
CB              --                                International Competitive
Bidding
LCB             --                                Local Competitive Bidding
LS              --                                Local or International
Shopping
hE       Ministerio de Economia                   Ministry of Economy
MIS             --                                Management Information
Systems
MOSP     Ministerio de Obras y                    Ministry of Public Works
Servicios P(blicos                       and Services
PE       Empresa P(blica                          Public Enterprise
PERAL           --                                Public Enterprise Reform
Adjustment Loan
PPF             --                                Project Preparation
Facility
PSMTAL          --                                Public Sector Management
Technical Assistance Loan
SEGBA    Servicios Electricos del Gran            Buenos Aires Power Company
Buenos Aires
SIGEP    Sindicatura General de                   State PE Comptroller
Empresas PCiblicas
SOMISA   Sociedad Mixta Sidertirgica              Steel Company of Argentina
Argentina
TOR             --                                Terms of Reference
YCF      Yacimientos Carboniferos Fiscales        State Coal Company
YPF      Yacimientos Petroliferos Fiscales        State Petroleum Company



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ARGENTINA
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE REFORM EXECUTION PROJECT (PEREL)
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:           The Argentine Republic
Beneficiaries:      Ministry  of  Economy,  Federal  Telecommunications
Commission, Ferrocarriles Argentinos, Yacimientos
Petroliferos Fiscales, Other Public Enterprises and
Sindicatura General de Empresas Publicas.
Amount:             US$23 million equivalent.
Terms:              Repayable  in 17 years,  including  a 5-year  grace
period, at the Bank's standard variable interest rate.
FinancinR
Plan:             Government                            US$ 9.85 million
IBRD                                  US$23.00 million
Total                                 US$32.85 million
Economic Rate
of Return:          Not applicable.
A companion Public Enterprise Reform Adjustment Loan is presented in a
Memorandum of the President dated January 14, 1991.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performancj
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED PUBLIC ENTERPRISE REFORM EXECUTION LOAN (PEREL)
TO THE ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
1.        I submit  the following memorandum  and recommendation on a
proposed loan to the Argentine Republic for the equivalent of US$23 million
to help finance a Public Enterprise Reform Execution Loan (PEREL).  The
loan, which supports a proposed Public Enterprise Reform Adjustment Loan
(PERAL), would be on standard IBRD terms repayable over 17 years, including
5 years grace, at the Bank's standard variable interest rate.
2.        Background.    In  Argentina,  the  absolute  size  of  public
enterprises (PEs) is not the central issue considering that their
participation in the economy--about 10 percent of GDP--is similar to that
in industrial countries and other Latin American countries.   The main
problem is exceedingly poor financial performance accompanied by an
inadequate provision of goods and services. In Argentina, the PE's share
of the total public 4eficit has remained fairly consistent at about 50
percent since 1971.   'rlier attempts at improving PEs (supported in some
cases by Bank loans) have failed to help them retain satisfactory
performance standards, but the modernization of the Argentine economy now
depends critically on tangible success in reforming the sectors in which
PEs now operate.
3.        Government Strategy.  The Government has developed an ambitious
PE reform program to improve their efficiency and service quality.  It
focusses on: (a) privatizing PEs whenever possible; (b) strengthening the
government's oversight as a shareholder and restructuring those PEs that
would not be subject to privatization; (c) setting clear rules of the game
and transparency of control by establishing regulatory processes and
agencies; and (d) rationalizing labor management by reducing employment
commensurate with efficient operations, eliminating a-:ciproductivity
provisions in contracts and practices, and limiting the role of labor
unions in PE management.
4.        To implement its program, the Government has enacted legislation
that empowers it to privatize and restructure PEs. In accordance with this
legislation,   the  Government  has  completed  the  privatization  of
telecommunications operations and has issued a decree establishing a
regulatory authority; has sold the national airlines, Aerolineas
Argentinas; has issued decrees deregulating the hydrocarbons sector, sold
38 of the minor oil producing areas and prequalified 16 international oil
companies for a tender to participate in joint ventures in 4 of the central
oil producing areas; and has awarded concessions to the private sector for
the operation of railway cargo lines and closed one-fourth of those
unprofitable intercity railway passenger services.



-2-
5.        Rationale for Bank Involvement.  The Bank has played an active
role in promoting public enterprise reform in Argentina over the last three
years and has approved an aggregate of about US$7 million in funding for
project preparation drawn from various current loans and project
preparation facilities. The proposed PERAL and PEREL would provide further
Bank technical support as well as vital financial assistance. Without this
catalytic support, the critical reforms would be less likely to proceed.
Complementing the public enterprise reform, a major reform of the Federal
Government and Central Bank would be supported by a Public Sector Reform
Loan, likely to be presented to the Board about April 1991.
6.        Project Objectives.   The proposed loan would strengthen the
Government's administrative and technical capability to carry out its PE
reform program.  It would finance the costs of contracting services and
equipment necessary to implement the reform program that relate mainly to
policy conditions contemplated under PERAL as well as extend the program
to additional sectors/enterprises. Specifically, the proposed PEREL would
support: (a) total or partial privatization of four major PEs in Argentina
as well as improvement of the financial viability and service quality in
nonprivatized business units; (b) preparation of further privatization
programs; and (c) strengthening the institutional and regulatory framework
for the sectors in which PEs operate.  The project is also intended to
engender competition within a large segment of the private sector, which
has thrived financially under the protective shield of government
regulations that encouraged PE inefficiency.
7.        Proiect Description.  The proposed project would be coordinated
and administered by the Ministry of Economy  (ME).   It would finance
expenditures (mostly payments to consultants) for the following activities:
Ca)  General  PE  Framework.      (i)  Strengthen  the  Government's
administrative capacity to plan, execute and monitor the PE
reform  program  through  the  establishment  of  a  Project
Coordinating Unit in ME (US$1.2 million); (ii) Develop a
strategic plan for ME to continue the Government's program of
restructuring/privatization of PEs, including upgrading of the
management information systems, and the establishment of
performance evaluation systems for PEs (US$1.8 million); (iii)
develop and implement a labor management strategy to improve
labor productivity through revision of labor contracts and design
of labor reduction mechanisms (US$0.425 million, in addition to
US$0.46 million under a PPF for PERAL); and (iv) assist in
strengthening the capabilities of the Government to reduce
environmental damage caused by PEs and private companies in
sectors covered under the project (US$0.6 million).
(b)  Telecommunications Sector. (i) Provision of retroactive financing
to the Government to pay an investment bank for its participation
in the sale of ENTel (retainer fees to investment bank - US$0.1
million in addition to US$l million under a PPF for PERAL); and
(ii) assistance to the Government in setting up a National



Telecommunications Commission (CNT) and bringing it to full
operational efficiency to ensure competitive behavior and
compliance with service obligations of private operators (US$3
million).
(c)  Railways. (i) Assistance to Ferrocarriles Argentinos (PA) through
international   and  local  consultants  to  strengthen  its
capabilities for further development and implementation of the
railway reform program (US$1.67 million); (ii) analysis and
identification of additional cargo concession options followed
by development and implementation of action plans (US$0.63
million); (iii) development of an action plan for restructuring
interurban passenger services to achieve a reduced and more
efficient level of operations (US$0.33 million); (iv) development
of privatization options for FA service activities (US$0.45
million); (v) development of an action plan for franchising FA
rolling stock (US$0.4 million); (vi) establishment of and support
for an asset management unit within FA to dispose of excess
assets (US$0.5 million); (vii) assistance to a railwr4y employee
management unit that will be created in PA to reorganize the
labor force and develop a program for labor reduztion to
facilitate restructuring/privatization of the railways (US$0.61
million); (viii) assistance in restructuring FA's metropolitan
railway services into an independent operation under local
government control and financing (US$0.98 million); (ix)
development of accounting and insurance systems for the new
railway organization (US$0.35 million); (x) development of new
rules for operating practices and safety of railway operations
(US$0.2 million); and (xi) development of new regulatory
frameworks, one for the national railway system and another for
the Buenos Aires metropolitan transport system, to prevent
monopolistic behavior by operators and ensure efficient
interconnection of transport services (US$0.98 million).
(d)  Hydrocarbons.   (i) Development of a strategic plan to define
long-term objectives of the new State Petroleum Company (YPF)
after restructuring/privatization of some of its components
(US$0.36 million); (ii) implementation of new business units for
YPF according to a strategic plan (US$0.98 million); (iii)
assistance for the privatization and/or establishment of joint
ventures of selected YPP's upstream and downstream operations and
transport services (US$0.92 million); (iv) assistance in
privatization of natural gas transport and distribution networks
of the State Gas Company (GdE) (US$0.84 million); and (v)
strengthening the Government's regulatory capabilities (US$0.4
million).
(e) Other Assistance. Assistance to prepare and carry out additional
privatization/restructuring activities in other PEs including:
(i) Empresa de Lineas Maritimas Argentinas (ELMA, the Shipping
company); (ii) Asociaci6n General de Puertos (AGP, the national



port   system);   (iii)   Empresa   Nacional   de   Correos   y
Telecomunicaciones (ENCOTEL, the postal services); (iv) Obras
Sanitarias de la Naci6n (OSN, the water supply and sanitation
services); (v) Servicios Electricos del Gran Buenos Aires (SEGBA,
the power distribution system for Buenos Aires); (vi) Agua y
Energia Electrica (AyEE, the national power generation and
transmission company); and (vii) Other PEs (US$5.275 million).
8.        The  matrix  of  project  activities  (Attachment  1)  includes
information on objectives, activities, outputs, impact, and timing targets.
The total project cost is estimated at US$32.85 million, of which US$23
million would be financed by the Bark. The project would be completed by
December 31, 1994, with the closing date of the loan June 30, 1995.
Retroactive financing of US$500,000 from July 1, 1990 would be provided to:
(a) continue payments to consultants in the Project Coordinating Unit
(initiated under a PPF); (b) upgrade SIGEP's MIS; (c) continue
implementation of the labor management strategy for PEs;  (d) finalize
payments to consultants that assisted in ENTel's sale; (e) provide
consulting services for the development of CNT; and (f) initiate the
preparation for divestiture of selected YPF operations.   The amounts
outstanding from a PPF for US$750,000 will be paid out of the loan.  A
Special Account for US$250,000 would be established, to be activated in
case the procurement agent (see para. 9b) employed for the project would
not cover all activities. The government will onlend the proceeds of the
loan to all participating entities, which have their own patrimony and
juridical personality, in US dollar equivalent under the same terms and
conditions of the loan agreement. Selection of consultants and procurement
of equipment would follow Bank guidelines. The detailed cost estimates and
methods of procurement and disbursements are shown in Schedules A and B.
A Supplementary Loan Data Sheet and the Status of Bank Group Operations in
Argentina are given in Schedules C and D, respectively. A detailed project
description is given in Annex 1. Detailed Terms of Reference (TOR) for all
major activities and general TOR for all other activities have been agreed
during appraisal and revised during negotiations. TORs are available in
the project file.
9.        Actions Agreed.  During negotiations, agreements were reached
with the Government on measurement criteria according to a detailed
timetable for each activity (Attachment 2).  It was also agreed that the
Project Coordinating Unit would be headed by the Subsecretary of Public
Enterprises in ME as National Project Director and assisted by a full-time
Deputy Director with powers to contract consultants ar.d request
disbursements. The following actions were also agreed with tha Government
during negotiations: (a) effectiveness of the proposed PEREL wosuld: (i) be
contingent on effectiveness of the proposed PERAL and vice versa; and (ii)
require that the Project Coordinating Unit be staffed in a manner
satisfactory to the Bank; (b) not later than April 30, 1991, the Borrower
would enter into contractual arrangements with a procurement agent
satisfactory to the Bank; (c) starting approximately six months after loan
effectiveness, the Bank would receive semiannual reports on actual project
implementation; (d) failure to implement the project as per the timetables



agreed during negotiations may cause reallocation or cancellation of fur.ds;
(e) if either the railway or the hydrocarbon tranche under PERAL remain
undisbursed by the PERAL Closing Date (December 31, 1993), then funds
allocated under the PEREL to the sectors related to those tranches shall
become ineligible for disbursement.
10.       Benefits.   The project is expected to contribute to economic
growth from productivity gains by transforming a large sector of the
Argentine economy from a condition of control and protection to one of
competition, and by increased investment of the private sector, which would
become active in the previously monopolistic domain of public enterprises.
More specifically, the benefits would include increased production and
service quality by reversing the declining trend in petroleum production,
lowering overall transport costs, and improving the quality of telephone
service. Improvements in PE productivity would occur as managers are
allowed to run operations commercially under performance evaluation
contracts and through changes in labor regulations and practices. Specific
benefits of the project include: (a) improved coordination among ME, MOSP,
and enterprise management; (b) decision-making based on timely information
and substantiated analysis of PE performance, options and cost/benefits;
(c) greater access to information, transparency of decisions, and ex-post
accountability.
11.       Ri -'s.   The major risks are that during implementation key
activities may not be implemented as originally planned due to technical
difficulties, political opposition, and pressures by private parties.
Moreover, rapid turnover in key public managers may reduce the value of
studies or plans developed by the project.   The Government's  strong
commitment,  as  reflected  by  progress  achieved  to  date  in  its
reform/privatization program indicates these risks seem acceptable.   To
reduce risks of a technical nature, the Bank has discussed extensively with
the Government all major components of its reform program and has provided
international expertise and in-house assistance during project preparation.
In addition, technical capabilities at the Government and PE levels would
be ensured through the recently established Project Coordinating Unit in
ME and technical units in major PEs.
12.       Recommendation.   I am satisfied that the proposed loan would
comply with the Articles of Agreement of the Bank, and I recommend that the
Executive Directors approve it.
Barber B. Conable
President
Attachments
January 14, 1991
Washington, D.C.



6                                SCHEDULE A
Page 1 of 3
ARGENTINA
PEREL - PROJECT ACTIVITIES
Man-Months                  Financing
Project Components             Consultants Counterparts        Bank    Government
(US$'000)
I. PE REFORM FRAMEWORK
1. Establish Coordinating
Unit in ME                          401         270         1,200           864
2. (a) Development of Strategic
Plans and Performance
Evaluation Systems for PEs    360           288         1.600           350
(b) Upgrade SIGEP's MIS             56           60           200           146
3. (a) Labor Management Strategy 11  (60)          (100)        (460)         (240)
(b) Extend labor Task Force in
ME2/                              9          10            25            20
(c) Renegotiate Labor Agreements
and Monitor Retirement          84          680           400        1,680
4. Strengthen Environmental
Capabilities                        120         100           600           192
Subtotal                             1,030       1,408         4,025         3,252
II. TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR REFORM
1. Management of ENTel's Sale31       (n.a.)       (200)         100 41       (480)
2. Establish National
Telecommunications Commission       200         660         3,000         2,240 51
Subtotal                               200         660         3,100         2,240
III. RAILWAYS SECTOR REFORM
1. (a) Technical Unit in PA            180         216         1,010 61       540
(b) Assistance to Unit              30           45           660         110
2. Analyze Future Cargo Concessions   42            63           630          160
3. Restructure Interurban
Passenger Service                    28          42           330          100
4. Privatize Other FA Facilities        30          45           450          110
5. Franchise FA Rolling Stock           40          60           400          150
6. Form Excess Asset Unit and
Identify Excess Assets              25           74           500          190
7. Establish Employee Management Unit 35            50           610          130
8. Restructure Metropolitan Line        50          75           980 71       190
9. Analyze Accounting Costs and
Insurance                            30          45           350          110
10.Change Operating Practices           10          20           200           50
1l.(a) Establish National Railway
Authority 8/                     40          60           600          150
(b) Establish Metropolitan
Railway Authority 81            so           45           380          110
Subtotal                               570         840         7,100        2,100



7-
SCHEDULE A
Page 2 of 3
Man-Months                Financing
Project Components                 Consultants Counterparts   Bank    Government
(US$'000)
IV. OIL AND GAS SECTOR REFORM
1. Develop New Strategic Plan
of YPF                                 33          100        360 9/       400
2. Implement New Business
Units for YPF                          80           90        980          360
3. Divest Selected YPP
Operations                            119          112        920          260
4. Privatize Natural Gas
Transport and Distribution             56           56        840          140
5. Strengthen Policy and
Regulatory Capability                  12           12        400           30
Subtotal                                 300          370      3,500        1,190
V. OTHER ASSISTANCE
1.  ELMA                                  40           60        600          150
2.  AGP                                   50           75        925          190
3.  Encotel                               20           30        300           80
4.  OSN                                   50           80      1,000          200
5.  SEGBA                                 30           90        750          180
6. DNV                                    10           25        250           80
7.  AyEE                                  25           74        500          190
8.  Other                                -.-          -.-        950          -
Subtotal                                 225          434      5.275        1,070
TOTAL                                  2,325        3,712     23,000        9,852
~mr
1/   Financed under PPFs for PERAL
2/  Initially financed under Public Sector Management Technical Assistance Loan
2712-AR.
3/   Corresponds to commitment fee to ENTel's privatization advisors.
4/   Total cost US$1,100,000; US$1,000,000 financed under PPPs for PERAL.
5/   Includes Us$500,000 for equipment and its maintenance, US$600,000 for
training, and US$160,000 for local consultants; the remainder is salaries
for new staff.
6/   Includes US$20,000 for computers.
7/   Includes US$300,000 for computers and software.
8/   Includes funds for computers.
9/   Includes provision for US$140,000 in training for managers to implement
restructuring.



-8-
SCHEDULE A
Page 3 of 3
ARGENTINA
PEREL - PROJECT ACTIVITIES
Financing Plan
(US$1000)
Local       Foreign        Total
Bank                3,235        19,765       23,000
Government          9,850                      9,850
TOTAL             13,085         19,765       32,850



-9-
SCHEDULE B
ARGENTINA
PEREL
Procurement Arrangements
(USS thousands)
Proiect Element                Procurement method                   Total Costs
LS a/   LCB b/  ICB      Others c/  N.A.
1. Consultant Services
and Training                                 22,200      --         22,200
(22,200)
2. Equipment             100      700     --       --         --            800
(100)   (700)
3. Local Inputs          --       --      --      --          9,850 d/   9,850
TOTAL                    100      700     --      22,200      9,850      32,850
(1O0)   (700)            (22,200)              (23,000)
al  Local or international shopping (LS) if estimated contract value falls
below US$25,000.
bI Local competitive bidding if estimated contract value lies between
US$25,000 and US$250,000.
e/ Includes contracting of consultants in accordance with Bank Guidelines.
Al The Government's contribution of approximately US$9.85 million consists
largely of counterpart staff, local consultants, computers and their
maintenance, secretarial services and supplies.
Note: Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts financed by the Bank.
Disbursements
(US$ '000)
Category                    Amount                Percentage
1. Consultant Services and
Training                      21,450                 10O  net of taxes
2. Equipment                          800                1002 foreign expenditures
and 85? ex-factory local
expenditures.
3. Refunding of PPF                   750
TOTAL       23,000
Estimated IBRD Disbursements
(US$ '000)
FISCAL YEAR              1991    1992    1993    1994       1995
Annual                   1,920   5,380    5,500   6,000    4,200
Cumulative               1,920   7,300   12,800  18,800   23,000



- 10 -
SCHEDULE C
ARGENTINA
PEREL
SUIDRementarY Loan Data Sheet
Section I - Timetable of Key Processing Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare               s       3 years, initially part of
PERAL
(b)  Prepared by                                 Government of Argentina with
Bank assistance
(c)  First IBRD Mission                          July 1987
(d)  Appraisal Mission Departure                 June 1990 (Post-Appraisal
October 1990)
(e)  Negotiations                                December 10-14, 1990
(f)  Planned Date of Effectiveness               February 1991
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III - Special Conditions
1.          Effectiveness.  It would be subject to: (a) effectiveness of the
proposed PERAL and vice ver3a; and (b) staffing of the Project Coordinating Unit
in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
2.          Other. (a) Not later than April 30, 1991, the Borrower shall enter
into contractual arrangements with a procurement agent satisfactory to the bank;
(b) starting approximately six months after loan effectiveness the Bank will
receive semiannual reports on actual project implementation; (c) failure to
implement the project as per the agreed timetable may result in a reallocation
or cancellation of funds; (d) if the Railway Tranche or the Hydrocarbon Tranche
ur.atr PERAL remain undisbursed by the PERAL Closing Date of December 31, 1993,
then loan funds allocated under the PEREL to the sectors related to those
tranches shall become ineligible for disbursements.



- 11 -
SCHEDULE D
ARGENTINA
PEREL
Statement of Bank Loans
(As of September 30, 1990)
Flscl                                             Amount Less
Loan No.  Year   Borrower                   PurDose         Cancellations Und7sbursed
(USS millIon)
Fully disbursed loans (25)                                    2,111.12
2032     1982    yacim;entos                Refinery            200.0           0.2
Petroliferos Fiscal**    Conversion
2298     1983    Argentina                  Highway             100.0           9.8
Sector
2592     1986    Yacimientos                Go* Utilization    180.0           97.9
Petrolifiroe Fiscal.,   A Tech. A".;wt.
2841     1986    Argentina                  Water Supply         e0.0          47.3
2712     1916    Argentina                  Public Secti         18. 5          4.1
Mgt.
2751     1987    Argentina                  Power Engineering   14.0            2.1
2793     1987    Argentina                  Smell and Medium   125.0           81.4
Scale Ind. Credit
2805     1987    Argentina                  Port                 S0.0          43.4
2815     19e7    Argentina                  Trade Policy        496.3           0.4
2864     1987    Servicios Electricos       Powor Dist.         276.0        240.3
2920     1988    Argentina                  Municipal Oov.      120.0         115.0
2970     1988    Banco do la Nacion         Agric. Credit       106.6          16.2
2984     1989    Argentina                  Social Sector        28.0          22.8
2997     19e9    Argentina                  Housing Sector      300.0         284.1
2998     1989    Argentina                  Electric Power      252.0           3.8
3016     1989    Argentina                  Tax Admin. T.A.       6.s           6.2
TOTAL                                      4,444.0
of which has been repaid                   1,141.0
Total now outstanding                      3,303.0
Amount Sold               12.8
of which has been repaid                  12.8
Total now held by Bank                     3,290.2
Total Undisbursed                                          973.8
10/24/90



- 12 -
ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 14
ARGENTINA
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE REFORM EXECUTION LOAN
TECHNICAL ANNEX
A. Background
1.   Overview of PEs.  As of July 1, 1990, there were 230 PEs in Argentina,
with about 29Z under the Federal Government and the rest under provincial
governments (62Z) and municipal authorities (9Z). The PEs under the Federal
Government accounted for nearly one-third of total public expenditures and
about 102 of GDP. Reliable information on provincial and municipal
enterprises is not available; however, while large in number, they are not
significant in aggregate economic and financial terms. In September 1990,
control over all national PEs, previously under the Ministry of Public Works
(MOSP) and the Ministry of Defense (MD) (excluding those for military
purposes), was transferred to the Ministry of Economy (ME). There were then
67 enterprises (two were recently privatized) under the ownership of the
Federal Government. These enterprises were mainly concentrated in three major
sectors: (a) combustibles and energy (principally YPF, GdE, YCF, SEGBA, AyEE,
and Hidronor); (b) transport and communications (principally FA, AA, Elma,
AGP, ENTel, and ENCOTEL); and (c) industrial and services (principally in the
petrochemical and steel sectors). The seven largest PEs in terms of aggregate
revenues were ENTel (telecommunications), FA (railways), YPF (oil and gas
production and refining), GdE (gas transmission and distribution) and SEGBA,
AyEE and Hidronor (power generation, transmission and distribution). These
companies represented over 50? of national PE revenues in 1989 and were
representative of the PE sector. These were characterized by weak financial
performance and unsatisfactory service quality an4 output volume. Their
frequent losses and/or unsatisfactory internal cash generation have resulted
in a heavy drain on the Treasury (transfers to the seven PEs between 1984 and
1988 are estimated at about US$3 billion, although taxes and royalties paid by
YPF to the Central and Regional Governments result in much lower net
transfers), a build up of large arrears among themselves and with suppliers,
and investment programs inadequate to deal with output and quality
requirements.
2.   Institutional Framework.  The Government controls those PEs under
Federal authority as follows: (a) sector policies and overall sectoral
planning are carried out by the corresponding secretariat under MOSP (except
for the Secretariat of Energy which was transferred in September 1990 to ME)
in consultation with the Secretariat of Planning (SP) in the Presidency; (b)
overview, management and financial administration of PEs has recently been
transferred from MOSP and MD to ME; (c) investments above a certain amount
must be authorized by the SP and ME; (d) annual budgets must be approved by a
multiplicity of Government authorities (MOSP, ME, the Legal and Technical
Secretariats of the Presidency, SIGEP, and ultimately the President); (e)
monthly budgets must be approved by ME (starting in October 1990); (f) MOSP



- 13 -
ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 14
and MD are in charge of the privatization programs for the PEs under their
jurisdiction; (g) price and tariff changes must be approved by MOSP according
to directives given by ME; and (h) auditing of PEs is undertaken by SIGEP, the
State PE comptroller.
3.   Overall Problems/Constraints.  The main problems causing weak PE
performance arise from government controls over sector policies and PE
management, influence from private sector groups that enjoy privileges in the
form of protected markets or subsidized input prices, and labor unions that
have extracted special privileges from PEs that go far beyond common practice
in the private sector. The Government's control over most PE prices and
tariffs has resulted in pricing policies that do not reflect considerations of
economic efficiency but rather are oriented towards income policies, private
sector promotion and enhancing Government revenues. The central government's
distrust of PE managers has led to most decision-making taking place at
ministerial levels, eliminating incentives and responsibilities for managers.
Furthermore, political considerations in the appointment of PE managers and
frequent turnover have led to inappropriate leadership of PEs. PEs in
Argentina are obligated under the 'Compre Argentino" law to give preference to
local suppliers in their purchases of goods and services, although this law
has been temporarily suspended under the Economic Emergency Law. Low labor
productivity characterizes all PEs and is caused by: (a) overstaffing, most
acute in FA, which could operate with about one-third its labor force; and (b)
antiproductive provisions in labor contracts and work rules, examples of which
are guaranteed employment security, prohibitions for wage incentives, and
labor union control of corporate structure and personnel mobility.
4.   Telecommunications.  Until very recently Argentina's telecommunications
system was dominated by ENTel, a state-owned company that had a legal monopoly
to supply telecommunications services to approximately 90? of all public
network subscribers. As of December 1988, ENTel had an installed capacity of
about 3.2 million telephone lines and operated 1,300 switching centers, making
it the third largest telephone system in Latin America. The services provided
by ENTel have been inadequate: unmet demand for new telephone lines is
estimated at over one million, and the existing system is neither large enough
nor modern enough to handle the volume of calls being placed (with completed
calls at about 50? of those for well developed systems). The poor performance
of ENTel resulted from a combination of factors, including: (a) inefficient
management of the company; (b) low labor productivity; (c) uncompetitive
procurement practices; (d) tariff policies determined by political factors
with little regard for company profitability; (e) inadequate financing for
capital expansion; and (f) ineffective Government regulation and supervision.
5.   Railways.  Ferrocarriles Argentinos (FA) was formed as a confederation
of six railroads (later consolidated) after the Government nationalized all
private railway companies during the second half of the 1940s. Two lines
(Belgrano and Urquiza) are operationally separate because of their different
gauges, while the other four (Roca, Mitre, San Martin and Sarmiento) are
physically interconnected. FA serves three distinct markets: freight,
intercity passenger, and suburban passenger. In each of these markets, FA's
role has been reduced over time because of unreliable and poor services.



- 14 -
ANNEX 1
Page 3 of 14
Since 1970, FA's freight traffic has suffered a constant decline, falling from
about 15 billion ton-km to about 9 billion ton-km in 1988; interurban and
suburban passenger traffic has declined by 15-202 over the same period.
Unable to reduce its costs accordingly, FA has sustained massive operating
losses: the ratio of operating expenses to revenues exceeds 3 to 1, labor
costs comprise 50? of expenses, and the resulting deficit amounts to about 1Z
of Argentina's GDP. As the Government's fiscal problems have mounted, it has
tried to stem FA's losses by various means (mainly investment cuts and reduced
salaries) that have only exacerbated the decline in services. Main problems
that have precipitated this vicious cycle are: (a) duplication of services
between the six railway lines that continue to resist consolidation; (b) use
of excessive labor, interference by labor unions in management decisions, and
work rules with an antiproductivity bias; (c) operation of unprofitable
services based on political objectives imposed by local authorities; (d) lack
of prioritization of investments resulting in deterioration of potentially
profitable services (mainly cargo) and a declining market share; (e)
procurement restrictions; and (f) lack of commercial criteria when tariffs are
established.
6.   Hydrocarbons.  The State is also dominant in the hydrocarbon sector.
Yacimientos Petroliferos Fiscales (YPF) produces 65? of all crude oil and more
than 80? of all natural gas. In addition, YPF owns the national hydrocarbon
transport network and accounts for 702 of the country's refining capacity and
5OZ of petroleum product distribution and sales. Traditionally, YPF held the
petroleum rights to most sedimentary areas of Argentina, and administered more
than 80 contracts with private sector investors for exploration and
production. Under a government-imposed sharing arrangement, YPF was obligated
to supply crude to private refineries and to sell all natural gas to Gas del
Estado (GdE), which until recently enjoyed a virtual monopoly on natural gas
distribution. YPF has also been charged to act as a regulator in exploration,
and promotion, controlling access to shipping and pipelines, while GdE acts as
regulator in natural gas distribution by private firms to residential users
and ensures design standards for installations and gas pipelines.   The output
of petroleum has declined steadily over the last decade while the production
of natural gas has expanded. The reserve/production ratios have fallen to 8
years for crude oil and 20 years for natural gas. Under current investment
patterns in oil exploration and development, foreign exchange requirements
from oil imports could increase from nil at present to over US$500 million
p.a. in the next decade. In 1988, YPF registered an operating loss of US$200
million on sales of US$4.5 billion; but this figure does not account for the
financial contribution the company has made to the public and private sector.
It is estimated that YPF transferred a net US$1 billion to the Treasury and
other PEs on account of taxes, royalties, and controlled transfer prices in
1988. GdE has had operating losses of US$150 million p.a. during the last 5
years. The dilemmas facing the petroleum sector have resulted from: (a)
sector regulations including procurement restrictions, Government-guaranteed
refinery margins, high excise taxes on petroleum products and natural gas, a
refinery tax making trade in crude unattractive, and high-cost exploitation
contracts of YPF with private petroleum companies; (b) financial, operational,
and investment decisions affecting YPF and GdE but made outside the
companies--e.g. as high royalty payments to the provinces, the influence of



- 15 -
ANNEX 1
Page 4 of 14
provinces and labor unions on YPF's drilling programs, and GdE's obligation to
subsidize the petrochemical manufacturers and domestic consumers of gas; and
(c) lack of authority and accountability by company management in addition to
their appointment for political considerations under short-term contracts.
B. Reform Program
7.   Approach.  The Argentine Government has developed an ambitious program
of PE reforms targeted to improve efficiency and the quality of services. The
reforms focus on: (a) PE divestiture or downsizing and promoting participation
of the private sector in areas hitherto dominated by PEs; (b) strengthening
the government's oversight as a shareholder and restructuring those PEs that
would not be subject to privatization; (c) setting clear rules of play and
transparency of control by establishing regulatory processes and agencies; (d)
rationalizing labor management by reducing employment commensurate with
efficient operations, eliminating antiproductivity provisions in contracts and
practices, and limiting the role of labor unions in PE management. To
implement this program, the Government obtained new legislation (Law of Reform
of the State and Economic Emergency Law, promulgated in September 1989) which
empowered it to reorganize, privatize or liquidate PEs, and eliminate their
subsidies (except for the wage bill for the railways), suspended the PE
procurement law, and eliminated earmarked funds. Since enactment of these
laws, the Government has made considerable progress in many important areas.
8.   Institutional Reforms.  To implement the PE reform program the
Government has appointed two Subsecretaries in ME: a Subsecretary of Public
Enterprises in charge of overseeing the PEs and a Subsecretary of
Administrative and Technical Coordination in charge of reform of the state,
salary policies for the central government and PEs, and administrative support
in the reform process. MOSP's role has been limited to the design and
overview of the PE privatization program and the disposal of their excess
assets. The Government has appointed special administrators ("Interventors")
for each PE that report directly to ME. Their mandate is to implement the
restructuring and privatization program in the companies under their
jurisdiction. As the reform process advances, the Government intends to
modify the institutional framework in which PEs operate as well as their legal
status, which is intended to give autonomy and accountability to their
management.
9.   Overall Policies.  General policy reforms include the following: (a)
pricing--the reform will greatly reduce eliminate pricing as a Government
policy instrument for petroleum and gas, rail freight, and telecommunications
(see paras. 10 to 12); tb) procurement--the Government has begun to lower
costs to PEs by suspending temporarily the 'Buy-Argentine' law, replacing it
with a preference margin for domestic suppliers of 52 above the nationalized
value of imported goods (CIF plus tariffs, fees and domestic taxes - about 40?
of the CIF value). Further improvements concerning procurement would be
required under the proposed PERAL; (c) labor management--to improve PE
performance and facilitate privatization, the Government considers it
necessary to: Ci) renegotiate labor contracts to introduce performance



- 16 -
ANNEX 1
Page 5 of 14
incentives and eliminate clauses limiting management autonomy, and (ii)
implement a labor-reduction program. For these purposes the Government has
issued two decrees mandating renegotiation of labor contracts and established
a special labor task force in ME; (d) regulatory framework--the Government is
aware that effective regulations are necessary to ensure competition in
sectors with monopolistic characteristics, and has begun by creating a
separate regulatory authority for telecommunications (para. 10), while
required undertaking an analysis to determine the extent of regulations for
railways and hydrocarbons; (e) financial administration--with the view to
restoring financial autonomy and responsibility to PE managers, the Government
is limiting Treasury transfers to PEs, ending those to GdE, and drastically
reducing those to FA.
10. Telecommunications. The objectives of telecommunications reform are to
expand rapidly the availability of telephone service, to modernize the
existing network, and improve the quality of service in a cost-effective
manner. To achieve this, the Government strategy involves three lines of
action: (a) privatization of ENTel; (b) fostering competition; and (c)
establishing efficient regulations. Decisions have Deen taken to
reorganize/privatize ENTel into four separate enterprises: two regional
telephone companies serving the northern and southern parts of the country,
respectively; an international basic telephone service company; and a service
company for all other services that will be opened to competition. The
regional telephone companies will have specific service improvement
obligations in return for exclusive rights lasting seven years. Rate-of-
return tariffs will be used for two years, followed by a price-cap approach
during the remainder of the exclusivity period. Overall responsibility for
regulation of the restructured sector will fall to a new independent
regulatory agency. To date the Government has achieved the following: (a)
completed the privatization of the telecommunications system awarding the
northern region to a consortium of STET/France Cable et Radio/Morgan Bank and
the southern region to a consortium of Telefonica/Citibank; and (b) advanced
significantly in the creation of the telecommunications regulatory commission.
11. Railways. Government objectives for railway reform include to: (a)
improve efficiency of the service within the context of the overall transport
sector; (b) reduce the budgetary drain; and (c) minimize the adverse social
effects of staff reduction. For these purposes, the Government has agreed
with FA on a restructuring master plan, which includes: (a) privatization of
all cargo services through concessions; (b) elimination of all unviable,
nonessential interurban passenger services, maintaining only critical services
under explicit local government subsidies; (c) establishment of a separate
subsidiary to operate FA's Buenos Aires Metropolitan services; (d)
development/sale of excess FA assets; and (e) reduction of the labor force and
development of appropriate work rules. To ensure fair competition among the
various future operators of railway businesses, the Government will establish
a National Railways Systems Authority, while a Metropolitan Transit Authority
will regulate and determine subsidy requirements for passenger services within
Buenos Aires. The Government's program has made significant progress in
implementation: (a) FA has set up a special Technical Unit in charge of
implementing the master plan for restructuring; (b) the Rosario-Bahia Blanca



- 17 -
ANNEX 1
Page 6 of 14
cargo line has been awarded as a concession to a private group and the
concessionaires for the Urquiza cargo line have been selected through a
tender; (c) 42Z of interurban passenger services has been identified as non-
essential, of which 25Z has already been eliminated; (d) a Presidential Decree
has been issued establishing an independent metropolitan service unit within
FA; and Ce) FA reduced its labor force to 84,000.
12. Hydrocarbons. The following is the Government's strategy to mobilize
the large amount of investments required in the sector and to ensure their
efficient allocation for reversing the declining trend in reserves: (a)
adjusting all hydrocarbon prices to their international opportunity costs; (b)
deregulation of crude oil purchases and sales including imports and exports;
(c) promotion of private sector participation in exploration and exploitation
of oil and gas; (d) restructuring/privatization of YPF and GdE; and (e)
establishment of an appropriate framework for effective regulation of natural
monopolies, mainly for common carriers of liquids and gas. Progress so far
includes: (a) the sale of secondary production areas (38 areas); (b)
renegotiation of oil production service contracts (representing (30Z of the
crude oil produced in Argentina) into concession or associations to allow free
disposability; and (c) advanced bidding for the establishment of joint
ventures with private sector companies in YPP's main producing areas
(representing at least 20? of YPF's production).
13. Other Public Enterprises. Privatization/restructuring/liquidation of
other PEs under central and provincial government authority is also being
considered. The Government has already advanced in two other large PEs: (a)
Aerolineas Argentinas (AA), which has been divested to a consortium led by
Iberia, in which the Government retains a minority interest; and (b) the
Highway Authority (DNV), which has already franchised highway repair and
maintenance of about 10,000 Km of the national road network to private
companies which will operate through a toll system.
C. Project Description
(a) General PE Framework
14. Establishment of a Project Coordinating Unit in ME. A Project
Coordinating Unit has been established to facilitate the efficient
administration and timely implementation of activities under both PERAL and
PEREL. The unit has two distinct roles: (i) to support reform activities at
institutional and enterprise level and to monitor such activities for ME; and
(ii) to manage the financing and participate in the contracting of consultants
and the acquisition of equipment considered under the loan, ensuring that the
guidelines and procedures agreed upon with the Bank are complied with. As
part of these functions the unit would support the processing and expediting
of the required documents for the implementation of the loans. The project
would finance the unit team (composed of economists/administrators, a lawyer,
and support staff) for about 401 staff-months during 3.2 years, as well as
computers and office equipment. Initial financing is being provided under a
Project Preparation Facility (PPF). Total cost would be US$1.2 million.



- 18 -
ANNEX 1
Page 7 of 14
15. Establishment/Upgreding of Control Systems for PEs. The Government
wishes to restore gradually autonomy and accountability to PE management,
while at the same time to review ex-post PE performance. For these purposes,
two types of activities are proposed under the project:
(i)     to develop a strategic plan for ME to: (a) continue the
Government's program of restructuring/privatization of PEs;
(b) upgrading of the management information systems; (c)
preparing short and medium terms plans for PEs including
recommendations to modify their institutional framework to
provide managers with autonomy and accountability; and (d)
establishing performance evaluation monitoring systems for
YPF, AyEE, Hidronor, the Buenos Aires Metropolitan Railways
and other PEs. About 360 staff-months of consultants during
2 years, as well as computers would be required at a cost of
US$1.6 million;
(ii)     to upgrade Sindicatura General de Empresas Publicas' (SIGEP,
the State Comptroller) MIS to improve its capabilities as
financial comptroller of PEs, including its new
responsibilities for monitoring PE operational and economic
performance, and procurement arrangements. Consultants will
be contracted to review current methods by SIGEP, to gather
and evaluate information, and develop and assist in the
implementation of an improved MIS system, which will permit
the establishment of performance evaluation/ monitoring
systems of PEs. The diagnosis stage will require 12 staff-
months during 90 days for a cost of US$50,000 followed by an
implementation stage, which will require 44 staff months
over 180 days at a cost of US$150,000.
16. Rationalization of Labor Management in PEs. A labor strategy plan will
be prepared aimed at improving labor productivity in PEs and facilitating
their restructuring/privatization. The strategy will cov_r two main issues:
(i) labor rationalization, focussing on concrete programs for staff reduction
and redeployment, including quantitative targets and detailed cost estimates;
and (ii) reform of labor contracts, focussing on the redesign and
renegotiation of current collective labor agreements to eliminate
antiproductivity provisions and proposed measures to broaden the scope for
managerial decisions in personnel matters. A consulting company has been
hired under a PPF for PERAL to develop the labor strategy master plan and
detailed terms of reference (TOR) for implementation (60 staff-months at
US$460,000); the master plan will be completed in the second quarter of 1991.
The consultants are working in close coordination with the labor task force in
ME, financed under the Public Sector Management Technical Assistance Loan
(2712-AR). Priority PEs included in the program are FA, YPF, GdE and SEGBA.
Implementation of the labor strategy, to be financed under the proposed PEREL,
would include the following:



- 19 -
ANNEX 1
Page 8 of 14
(i)    extension of the labor task force in ME until the second
quarter of 1991 for an estimated 9 staff-months at a cost of
US$25,000; and
(ii)   renegotiation of company-specific collective labor agreements
with the support of consultants, monitoring implementation of
staff retirement programs, and other assistance with an
estimated requirement of 84 consultant staff-months and
software at an estimated cost of US$400,000.
17. Strengthening the Government's Environmental Capabilities. At present,
thz operations of PEs and other companies in their sectors are causing
important negative environmental consequences (disposal of water residues
resulting from petroleum extraction, air and water contaminants from oil
refineries, gas spillages from gas transport and distribution, urban impact of
railway transport). Higher levels of production, which would be achieved in
many cases after restructuring/privatization of PEs, and sector deregulation
may lead to an increase in these effects. The project includes a component to
deal with these issues by: (i) preparing an action plan addressing main
negative environmental effects in the hydrocarbon and transport sectors; (ii)
establishing training programs for environmental control; and (iii) proposing
an institutional framework to strengthen the Government's environmental
control capabilities. Estimated resources required are 120 consultant staff-
months at about US$600,000.
(b) Telecommunications
18. Privatization of ENTel. Most of the financing for preparing ENTel for
privatization has been provided during project preparation for PERAL and
PEREL. A total of US$500,000 was made available from Loan 2712-AR to finance
an international management consulting firm that prepared the framework for
privatization of ENTel, addressing both company-related (e.g., operational and
financial) and institutional (e.g., regulatory and structural) issues. This
firm ha* assisted the Government in designing the new structure and
competition policy of the telecommunications sector. The Bank also has
provided advanced financing for financial advisors to facilitate the sale of
ENTel. Out of a total of US$1.1 million, US$1 million was furnished under the
PPF for PERAL. The remaining US$100,000 would be financed under the proposed
PEREL.
19. Establishment of Regulations for the Telecommunications Sector. PEREL
would finance consultants that will assist in the establishment and initial
operation of the newly created National Telecommunications Commission (CNT).
This assistance will ensure bringing CNT to full operational efficiency
required to guarantee competitive behavior and compliance with service
obligations by private operators. This will occur in two stages:
(i)   preparation of a program for the establishment and development
of CNT, including a medium-term implementation plan and
specification of technical assistance requirements. About 12
staff-months of regulatory experts would be required for about



- 20 -
ANNEX 1
Page 9 of 14
3 months at an estimated cost of US$180,000 (US$100,000 has
been already advanced under a PPF for PEREL); and
(ii)    technical assistance to CNT to build a minimum core of
expertise in: regulatory policy; pricing and financial
analysis; technical standards and quality of service; and
administrative, legal and information systems. Estimated
requirements amount to 188 staff-months plus training of staff
spread over a two year period at a cost of US$2.82 million;
CNT will provide equipment, training, and local consultants.
This activity will include funds for a review by independent consultants by
June 30, 1993 as to the effectiveness of the telecommunications regulatory
authority. Counterpart funds would be provided by CNT from revenues arising
mainly from fees to be paid by all telecommunication services operators.
(c) Railways
20. Strengthening FA's Implementation Capabilities. A Technical Unit has
been formed within FA to manage its restructuring program. The unit will
report to a committee composed by PA's Interventor (chairman) and two
representatives from ME and MOSP, respectively. It will be in charge of
identifying, contracting and monitoring the activities required for railway
restructuring, ensuring adequate coordination of the program within PA as well
as with its consultants, government agencies, and the Bank. The project will
finance about 180 staff-months of local consultants who would comprise the
core of the technical unit, and 30 staff-months of international consulting
assistance. Total cost would be US$1.67 million over 39 months (advanced
financing is available under the PPF for PEREL).
21. Privatization of Further Cargo Networks. The Government's overall
program for privatizing/restructuring FA was developed with the assistance of
a consulting company financed under Loan 2712-AR. The assistance included the
definition of two cargo networks, Rosario-Bahia Blanca and Urquiza, and the
preparation of the bidding documents for franchising such networks to private
operators. PEREL will provide financing to engage consultants to analyze and
refine future network such options and address potential problems for such
operations to maximize their probability of success. The remaining network
concessions to be offered are: (i) those parts of the Roca lines not included
in the Rosario-Bahia Blanca network concession; (ii) the Belgrano lines; and
(iii) two networks formed by the Mitre and San Martin sines and the remainder
of the Sarmiento line not included in the Rosario-Bahia Blanca network
concession. The consultants will assist the Government in estimating rail
line viability and preparing the remaining networks to be franchised by: (i)
developing potential traffic levels for different segments; (ii) estimating
operating costs based on improved operating practices; and (iii) establishing
the precise configuration for each network concession considering both
economic benefits to the country and attractiveness to potential bidders.
Subsequently, the consultants will provide assistance in developing
prequalification and bidding documents for these networks and will provide
advice during the franchising process. They will also assist and advise the



- 21 -
ANNEX 1
Page 10 of 14
Government in developing workable and fair prototype agreements governing the
relationships between different network concessions. The project will finance
42 staff-months of consultants for an estimated US$630,000.
22. Restructuring of Interurban Passenger Services. This subcomponent aims
at achieving a reduced, more efficient level of interurban passenger
operations to reduce FA's losses and subsidy requirements. Consultants will be
financed to analyze options for interurban passenger services, identifying the
most unprofitable non-critical services to proceed with their elimination, and
assisting in the development of procedures for maintaining critical services
under special financial arrangements agreed with the local governments.
Different options for operating critical services will be considered. An
action plan will be developed and implemented for franchising the Buenos
Aires-Mar del Plata line, identified as possibly the only profitable passenger
line. Assistance will also include the development of prototype agreements
between passenger operators, network operators (cargo concessionaires), and
the Government. Financing will be provided for 28 consultant staff-months for
a duration of 9 months at an estimated cost of US$330,000.
23. Privatization of Other FA Facilities. Apart from transport operations,
the Government intends to privatize other activities and facilities, such as
shops, ticketing and maintenance services, with the objective of improving
competitiveness of services for the railways. The following stages are
envisaged: Ci) identification of privatizable activities and facilities; (ii)
development of privatization options; (iii) assistance in preparation of
bidding documents; and (iv) development of prototype agreements with
concessionaires. The loan will finance 30 staff months of international and
local consultants for a duration of about 1 year at an estimated cost of
US$450,000.
24. Franchising of FA Rolling Stock. The restructuring/ privatization of
railway operations generates a need to address the options for existing
rolling stock not needed by new operators or requiring high capital
expenditures for upgrading and maintenance. Financial assistance will be
provided under PEREL to: (i) define franchisable rolling stock; (ii) analyze
the financial impact of rolling stock concessions with respect to reduction of
capital requirements for network concessionaires; and (iii) develop prototype
agreements between network and rolling stock concessionaires. This assistance
will finance 40 consultant staff-months for a period of 9 months at an
estimated cost of US$400,000.
25. Development of Excess Assets. An Excess Asset Management Unit to be
established within FA, will be responsible for the development and/or sale of
real estate, facilities, and other assets not needed for railway operations or
which will become redundant during the restructuring process. To ensure a
process that will provide maximum benefits to the Government/FA, the unit will
require assistance to: (i) develop procedures and processes to identify the
assets; (ii) implement identification of assets; and (iii) prepare an action
plan to develop/sell excess assets. The project will finance 25 consultant
staff-months for 2.5 years at an estimated cost of US$500,000.



- 22 -
ANNEX 1
Page 11 of 14
26. Labor Reduction Program. A Railway Employee Management Unit will be
established within FA to implement labor reduction programs and propose
changes in work rules. This unit. assisted by consultants, will carry out the
following tasks; (i) evaluate the profile of FA's labor force; (ii) estimate
future FA and concessionaire labor requirements; (iii) establish employee
costs to FA, determine employee legal rights, analyze work rules and propose
changes; and (iv) develop a program for labor reduction considering buyouts,
early retirement and retraining options. PEREL will finance about 35
consultant staff-months at an estimated cost of US$610,000. Although program
duration is estimated at three years, partial implementation of activities
will be accomplished at different stages within this period.
27. Efficiency and Quality Improvements of Buenos Aires Passenger Services.
The Government has initiated a program (with assistance from consultants under
a Canadian Government grant) to restructure FA's metropolitan passenger
railway services and thus improve their efficiency and reduce subsidies. The
consultants will produce an action plan to create a Metropolitan Transit
Authority that would develop regional guidelines and funding policy for urban
and suburban transportation in the Greater Metropolitan Area of Ruenos Aires,
and an operating organization, Ferrocarriles Metropolitanos (FM), to manage
and operate integrated metropolitan rail transit services using FA's existing
facilities. The action plan will include: (i) definition of the Metropolitan
Transit Authority; (ii) identification of parameters to be considered in a
possible agreement between FM and the Government for payment of subsidies;
(iii) definition of FM's management structure; (iv) establishment of staff and
labor force requirements; (v) identification of potential interfaces between
FM and the subway; (vi) identification of required operational improvements;
and (vii) identification of FM's potential privatization activities
(contracting out). Implementation of the action plan for restructuring FA's
Metropolitan Railway services will be carried out with the assistance of
consultants under PEREL, which will finance 50 consultant staff-months for 15
months plus computer and software at a cost of US$980,000.
28. Development of Accounting and Insurance Systems for the New Railway
Organization. The new railway organization would require: (i) an appropriate
accounting system to reflect the financial situation of the new business
units, and (ii) a new insurance scheme to account for liability problems with
railway concessions. PEREL will provide assistance for these tasks, financing
about 30 staff-months of consultants at a cost of US$350,000.
29. Development of New Rules for Operating Practices and Safety of Railway
Operations. Improvement of railway operations requires new rules to replace
the previous system, which restricts efficiency improvements while not
allowing the implementation of modern safety standards. The Bank will finance
10 staff-months of consultants for this activity at a cost of US$200,000.
30. Development of New Regulatory Framework for Railway Services. Two
activities are envisaged under this component: (i) the establishment of a
National Railway Authority to ensure fair competition and access to the
railway system for all users; and (ii) the establishment of a Buenos Aires
Passenger Authority to regulate/fund passenger services within Buenos Aires.



- 23 -
ANNEX 1
Page 12 of 14
For this purpose. the Bank will finance 70 consultant staff-months over 2
years at an estimated cost of US$980,000.
(d) Hydrocarbons
31. Development of Strategic Plan for New YPF. The Government requires a
strategic plan for the new YPF entity that will emerge after the
privatization/restructuring process takes place. The strategic plan will
define the long-term objectives of YPF in the various business activities and
a plan of action in terms of human and financial resources, as well as the
ownership structure, organization, and management capability needed to achieve
these objectives. PEREL will finance 33 staff-months of consultants to assist
in the development of this plan at a cost of US$360,000.
32. Implementation of New Business Units for YPF. The strategic plan for the
new YPF will produce TORs for the implementation of new business units as
profit centers that would develop according to market requirements. The
activities under these TORs would include: (i) organization of the new
business units, and (ii) development of management processes and systems for
each unit. PEREL will finance 80 staff-months of consultants for an estimated
cost of US$980,000 for this activity.
33.  Divestiture of Selected YPF Operations.  Assistance will be required for
the privatization and/or establishment of joint ventures of selected YPF
upstream and downstream operations, upstream services (drilling, geophysics,
maintenance, etc.) and transport services. This activity will consist of: (i)
analysis and evaluation of all assets with potential for privatization or
joint ventures; (ii) selection of preferred ownership structure for each
operation; (iii) valuation of units to be privatized or converted into joint
ventures; and (iv) assistance in preparation of bidding documents and
negotiation. PEREL will provide financing for about 119 staff-months ox
consultants at an estimated cost of US$920,000.
34. Privatization of Natural Gas Pipelines and Distribution Networks of GdE.
Financial assistance is required to: (i) define business units to be
privatized; (ii) develop action plans; (iii) appraise the value of assets of
business units to be privatized; and (iv) prepare bidding documents and assist
in negotiations. Fifty-six staff-months of consultants will be financed at a
cost of US$840,000.
35. Strenatheninp of the Government's Regulatory Capabilities. In view of
the new institutional arrangement of the hydrocarbon sector after price
liberalization and restructuring of YPF and GdE, the Government intends to
establish the minimum regulations that will ensure national objectives for the
hydrocarbon sector within a competitive framework. The Bank has provided
technical assistance under a Japanese Grant to develop the necessary
regulations for gas transmission and distribution in terms of access and
tariff setting. PEREL will finance assistance to provide recommendations for
the remainder of the hydrocarbon sector and for the implementation of the new
policies and regulations. About 12 consultant staff-months would be required
for this activity at an estimated cost of US$400,000.



- 24 -
ANNEX 1
Page 13 of 14
(e) Preparation of Other Assistance.
36. Restructurina/Privatization of Other PEs. Assistance would be provided
to prepare and carry out additional privatization/restructuring activities in
other PEs. This includes development/implementation of strategic plans to:
(a) redimension ELMA through sale of over one-half of its fleet, voluntary
retirement of staff and privatization of some services (40 consultant staff-
months, US$600,000); (b) analyze various options for privatizing and/or
franchising AGP port operations and implant the most appropriate one (50
consultant staff-months, US$925,000); (c) restructure ENCOTEL and privatize or
franchise its operations (20 consultant staff-months, US$300,000); (d)
restructure OSN and privatize/franchise selected operations (50 consultant
staff-months, US$1 million); (e) restructure SEGBA and privatize/franchise
operations (30 consultant staff-months, US$750,000); (f) continue franchising
DNV's highway maintenance services (10 consultant staff-months, US$250,000);
(g) restructure AyEE and privatize/franchise operations (25 consultant staff-
months, US$500,000); and (h) privatize/restructure other PEs including those
under the Ministry of Defense (US$950,000).
D. Project Administration and Implementation
37. Project Organization and Implementation. The Borrower will be the
Argentine Republic. The Ministry of Economy (ME) will be the Executing
Agency. Attachment 3 presents a chart showing implementation responsibilities
for the project. The Subsecretary of Public Enterprises would head a Project
Coordinating Unit as National Project Director, which would be responsible for
overall project implementation. He would be assisted by a full time Deputy
Director with powers to hire consultants and request disbursements from the
Bank. The functions of the Project Coordinating Unit would be to: (a) manage
Bank financing and technical support to PEs and monitor compliance with the
Bank's legal agreement; and (b) oversee and coordinate the reform process,
provide policy guidelines to PEs and monitor PE performance. In carrying out
the proposed project, the Subsecretary of Public Enterprises would coordinate
the implementation of specific project components with:(a) SIGEP for upgrading
SIGEP's M-IS; (b) CNT for the implementation and development of the
telecommunication regulations; (c) the Subsecretary of Public Works in MOSP
and the different PEs for implementation of the restructuring/privatization
prog':ams; and (d) sectoral Subsecretaries for the development of sector
specific policies and regulations (i.e., Energy and Transport).
38. Procurement. The goods and services to be financed under the project, as
summarized in Schedule A, would be procured in accordance with procedures
satisfactory to the Bank. Contracts for the procurement of equipment,
supplies, and maintenance items the equivalent of US$250,000 or more would be
awarded through ICB following the Bank's guidelines for procurement; between
US$25,000 and US$250,000 with an aggregate amount not to exceed US$700,000
would be made through LCB; and when valued below US$25,000 up to an aggregate
amount of US$100,000 would be awarded through local or international shopping
by requesting quotations from at least three eligible suppliers. The
Government's LCB procedures have been reviewed by the Bank and found
acceptable. Consultants for technical assistance and training services under



- 25 -
ANNEX 1
Page 14 of 14
the project would be selected in accordance with Bank Guidelines and under
terms of reference and employment conditions satisfactory to the Bank. To
facilitate the importation of equipment and the hiring of consultants the
Borrower will employ a procurement agent acceptable to the Bank.
39. Disbursements and Retroactive Financina. For amounts related to the
procurement of equipment, supplies and maintenance items below the LCB
thresholds, expenditures will be disbursed against statements of expenditures
for which detailed documentation providing evidence of expenditures would be
retained by the Project Coordinating Unit at ME and made available for the
required audit and also for supervision by the Bank. The Bank will require
prior review of all contracts awarded under ICB and LCB. All other contracts
would be subject to ex post review by the Bank. The loan would provide
retroactive financing of up to US$500,000 for expenditures made from July 1,
1990. Disbursements for activities under retroactive financing would be made
against contracts which meet the procurement requirements for this operation.
40. The Government's contribution of approximately US$9.85 million equivalent
would normally consist of counterpart staff, local consultants, office space,
supplies, secretarial services, and vehicle operation to be provided in the
different project components.
41. Accounts and Audits. Separate accounts would be kept for all
expenditures made under the project. The Project Coordinating Unit at ME
would maintain records and accounts for all project activities. The accounts
and statements of expenditures would be audited each year by auditors
acceptable to the Bank in accordance with the Bank's Auditing Guidelines, and
the audit reports would be submitted to the Bank no later than 4 months after
the close of its fiscal year.



ARGENTINA
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE REFORM EXECUTION PROJECT (PEREL)
PROJECT ACTIVITIES
PROJECT COMPONENT                 EXPECTED OUTPUT                 TIMING TARGETS
MAIN OBJECTIVES                 ACTIVITIES                          IMPACT                  (starting/completion)
GENERAL
1. Strengthen              1. Establish Coordinating   1. Output:                     1. Start:
Government's               Unit in ME (401 MM -         (a) Mechanism to supervise       August 1990 (PPF).
Administrative Capacity   US$1.2 million).              and administer program
to Execute the Public                                   execution.                       Completion:
Enterprise Reform                                       (b) Administrative               December 1993.
Program.                                                interphase between
Government and Bank.
Impact:
Efficient administration
and timely implementation
of program activities.
2. Implement               2.(a) Develop Strategic      2. Output:                    2. (a) Start:
Government's Overall       Plans and Performance        (a) Comprehensive and                Second Quarter 1991.
Strategy for PEs.         Evaluation Systems for PEs  reliable information for               Completion:
under the authority of ME   decision-making.                      Second Quarter 1993.
(360 MM - US$1.6 million).  (b) Ex-post control of PEs        (b) Start:
on the basis of                      Second Quarter 1991.
(b) Upgrade SIGEP's MIS   performance parameters.              Completion:
(56 MM - US$0.2 million).   (c) Proposals for                     Second Quarter 1992.
restructuring/
privatization of PEs.
Impact:
Improved decision-making
for Government strategy on
PE reform and effective
OlQ rtZ
o X
I-t>



ARGENTINA
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE REFORM EXECUTION PROJECT (PEREL)
PROJECT ACTIVITIES
PROJECT COMPONENT                 EXPECTED OUTPUT                  TIMING TARGETS
MAIN OBJECTIVES                 ACTIVITIES                           IMPACT                   (starting/completion)
3. Rationalize Labor       3. (a) Develop labor         3. Output:                     3.(a) Start:
Management in PEs.         management strategy (60MM    (a) Master Plan for                   October 1990 (PPF).
- US$0.46 million;           renegotiation of labor               Intermediate Report:
financed under PERAL PPF).  contracts and design of               December 1990.
labor reduction/                     Completion:
retirement mechanisms                Second Quarter 1991.
includinig TOR for 3(c).
(b) Extend labor task        (b) Assist ME in overall
force in ME (9MM -           labor strategy and               (b) Start:
US$0.025 million)            coordinate with                      February 1991.
consultants for 3(a).                Completion:
Second Quarter 1991.
(c) Renegotiate company      (c) Elimination of
specific collective labor   antiproductivity                  (c) Start:
agreements and monitor       provisions in labor                  Second Quarter 1991.
implementation of staff      contracts and progress               Completion:
retirement programs (84MM   reports on staff reduction            Second Quarter 1993.
and software - US$0.4        at PEs.
million).
Impact:
Improve labor productivity
and PE competitiveness.
I>
0 93



ARGENTINA
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE REFORM EXECUTION PROJECT (PEREL)
PROJECT ACTIVITIES
PROJECT COMPONENT                  EXPECTED OUTPUT                   TIMING TARGETS
MAIN OBJECTIVES                  ACTIVITIES                            IMPACT                   (startingicompletion)
4. Contain Environmental  4. Strengthen                   4. Output:                     4. Start:
Damage of PEs.              Environmental Capabilities  (a) Action plan addressing          Third Quarter 1991.
of the Government (120MM -  main negative
US$0.6 million).              environmental effects in          Completion:
the hydrocarbon and               First Quarter 1993.
transport sectors.
(b) Set-up of training
Programs for environmental
control.
(c) Strengthen
Government's environmental
entities.
Impact:
Reduce damage of PEs to
the environment.
o fj
Fh rt
0 c



ARGENTINA
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE REFORM EXECUTION PROJECT (PEREL)
PROJECT ACTIVITIES
MAIN OBJECTIVES                 PROJECT COMPONENT            EXPECTED OUTPUT/               TIMING TARGETS
ACTIVITIES                    IMPACT                (starting/completion)
TELECOMMUNICATIONS
1.  Sell ENTel to           1. Assistance to ENTel's    1. Output:(a) Issue             1. Start:
Qualified Operators.        authorities in: (a)            bidding documents for the       November 1989 (PPF).
drafting international        award of telecom-
public bid tender             munications franchises.         Completion:
documents including           (b) Promote the interest        November 1990.
offering memorandum; (b)    of qualified operators
organizing international    and commercial banks in
information campaign to       the purchase of ENTel.
interest potential            (c) Advice on the
bidders; (c) structuring    financial structure of
financial arrangements for  ENTel's sale.
ENTel's sale. (Retainer
fees to investment bank -        Impact:
US$1.1 million; includes    Select qualified
US$1 million financed         operators and maximize
under PPF for PERAL)          sales value.
2.  Establish Effective    2. Set-up National              2. Output:                  2. Start:
Regulations for             Telecommunications             Establishment of CNT with       First Quarter 1991.
Telecommunications          Commission (CNT), and          capability to develop and
System.                     bring to full operational   implement: (a) regulatory          Completion:
efficiency (200MM -           policies; (b) price, cost       First Quarter 1993
US$3 million).                and financial analyses;
(c) quality of service,
investment program, and
technical standards; and
(d) administrative, legal                               co
and information systems.                 X a
Impact:
Regulations to ensure
competitive behavior and
compliance with service
obligations of private
operators.



ARGENTINA
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE REFORM EXECUTION PROJECT (PEREL)
PROJECT ACTIVITIES
PROJECT COMPONENT                EXPECTED OUTPUT                  TIMING TARGETS
MAIN OBJECTIVES                ACTIVITIES                           IMPACT                  (startinglcompletion)
RAILWAYS
1. Strengthen Capabilities    1. (a) Establish Technical   1. Output:                      1. Start:
of Perrocarriles Argentinos   Unit in FA to manage          (a) Identification,               October 1990 (P?F).
(PA) to Develop and           restructuring program (180   contracting and supervision
Implement Railway Reform      MM - US$1.01 million).        of activities required for        Completion:
Program.                                                    railway restructuring.            December 1993.
(b) Provide continuing
international consulting      (b) Coordination of program
assistance to FA's           with FA, consultants,
Technical Unit (30MM -       government agencies and
US$0.66 million).            Bank.                                                    a
Impact:                                              
Ensures appropriate
technical expertise to FA
for implementation of
restructuring of railway.
2. Continue Privatization of  2. Analyse and refine         2. Outputs                     2. Starts
Cargo Networks.               future cargo concession       Definition of possible cargo      Second Quarter 1991.
options and identify likely  networks including estimated
networks and privatization   financial results, input to       Completion:
problems (42MM - US$0.63     bidding process, development       Second Quarter 1992.
million).                    of prototype agreements,
primary and secondary
network lines, definition of
critical services, etc.
Impact:o
Maximizes probability of                              m
success for network                                 Vi
concessions in line with                           0
objectives of increasing                              >
efficiency and quality of
cargo services.



ARGENTINA
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE REFORM EXECUTION PROJECT (PEREL)
PROJECT ACTIVITIES
PROJECT COMPONENT                 EXPECTED OUTPUT                  TIMING TARGETS
MAIN OBJECTIVES                 ACTIVITIES                           IMPACT                  (starting/completion)
3. Restructure Interurban      3. Analyze options for        3. Output:                      3. Start:
Passenger Services.            inter-urban passenger         Cost study of current inter-       First Quarter 1991
services, identify critical  urban passenger operations,         (PPF).
services and privatizable    definition of alternative
services; and establish       operating techniques,              Completion:
relationship between          definition of contract             Fourth Quarter 1991.
national, provincial and      agreements, development of
municipal governments for    prototype agreements between
continuing critical           passenger operators, network
services (28MM - US$0.33      operators and government
million).                     units.
Impact:
Achieve reduced, more
efficient level of inter-
urban passenger operations,
reducing losses and
government subsidy
requirements.
4. Privatize Other FA          4. Identify frivatizable      4. Output:                      4. Start:
Facilities.                    activities and facilities    Definition of possible              First Quarter 1992.
and develop privatization    concessionable facilities
options (30MM - US$0.45       and activities; estimate of        Completion:
million).                     financial impact; inputs to        Fourth Quarter 1992.
bidding documents;
development of prototype
agreements with
concessionaires.
Impact:
Maximizes probability of                                 |
success in establishing                               a
concessions in line with                                r 
objectives of improving
competition and quality of
railway services.



ARGENTINA
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE REFORM EXECUTION PROJECT (PEREL)
PROJECT ACTIVITIES
PROJECT COMPONENT                 EXPECTED OUTPUT                  TIMING TARGETS
MAIN OBJECTIVES                  ACTIVITIES                           IMPACT                  (starting/completion)
5. Develop Parameters for       5. Analyze rolling stock      5. Output:                      5. Start:
Concessioning FA Rolling        requirements for network      Definition of concessionable       Fourth Quarter 1991.
Stock.                          concessions and identify      rolling stock fleets;
rolling stock for possible   estimated financial impact          Completion:
concession (40MM - US$0.4    of rolling stock                    Third Quarter 1992.
million).                     concessions; prototype
agreements between network
and rolling stock
concessionaires.
Impact:
Maximize probability of
success of rolling stock
concessions to reduce
capital requirements for
network concessionaires and
introduce additional sources
of competition.
6. Develop/Sell Excess          6. Establish excess asset    6. Output:                       6. Start:
Assets.                         management unit within FA    Guidelines for asset                Third Quarter 1991.
which with assistance from   management function within
consultants will: (a)         FA; procedure for evaluation       Completion:
develop process for           of release proposals for           December 1993.
evaluating proposals to       excess assets;
release FA assets for         identification of FA excess
development; (b) identify    assets; action plan to sell/
assets not currently needed  develop FA excess assets.
or to be released during
restructuring (25MM -            Impact:
US$0.5 million).              Maximize gains from
disposal/development of
excess FA assets.                                     m | 
go r 
0 a



ARGENTINA
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE REFORM EXECUTION PROJECT (PEREL)
PROJECT ACTIVITIES
PROJECT COMPONENT                  EXPECTED OUTPUT                  TIMING TARGETS
MAIN OBJECTIVES                  ACTIVITIES                            IMPACT                   (startinglcompletion)
7. Develop Procedures to        7. Establish Railway           7. Output:                      7. Start:
Handle Excess Railway Labor   Employee Management Unit         Mechanism to implement             January 199; (PPF).
Forces.                         within FA which with           employee early retirement/
assistance from consultants  retraining/severance program         Completion:
will: (a) evaluate profile   in FA.                               December 1993.
of FA labor force; (b)
estimate future FA and            Impact:
concessionaire labor           Facilitates elimination of
requirements; (c) establish  redundant labor, increases
employee costs to FA,          probability of success of
determine employee legal       concessions and
rights, analyze work rules   restructuring of railway.
and propose changes; and
(d) develop program for
labor reduction considering
buyouts, early retirement,
and retraining options
(35MM - US$0.61 million).
8. Increase Service             8. Restructure FA's            8. Output:                      8. Start:
Efficiency and Quality of       Metropolitan Passenger         Independent suburban raii          Second Quarter 1991.
Buenos Aires Passenger          Railway Services (50MM -       passenger operating entity
Services.                       plus computers and software  responsible for all suburban         Completion:
- US$0.98 million).            services.                          Third Quarter 1992.
Impact:
More efficient suburban
passenger services with
lower explicit subsidies and
with cost sharing of
subsidies by local                                       >
government agencies.                                      rt_ 
aq rZ
.-h



ARGENTINA
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE REFORM EXECUTION PROJECT (PEREL)
PROJECT ACTIVITIES
PROJECT COMPONENT                  EXPECTED OUTPUT                  TIMING TARGETS
MAIN OBJECTIVES                  ACTIVITIES                            IMPACT                   (starting/completion)
9. Review and Modify            9. (a) Define accounting       9. Output                       9. Start:
Accounting System in            system for new railway         (a) Establishment of new            Second Quarter 1991.
Accordance with New Railway   organization;                    accounting system.
Structure.                      (b) develop insurance          (b) Implementation of new          Completion:
system (30MM - US$0.35         insurance scheme.                  Third Quarter 1991.
million).
Impact
(a) Allows financial
management of new
operations.
(b) Provides protection
against damages to commhon
users of railways.
10. Regulate Working Rules    10. Develop new rules for    10.Output                           10. Start:
and Operating Practices.        operating practices and        New rules for operating              Second Quarter 1991.
safety of railway              practices.
operations (1OMM - US$0.2                                          Completion:
million).                         Impact                           Fourth Quarter 1991.
Eliminate rules that are
obsolete and/or restrict
efficiency improvements.
11. Develop New Regulatory    11. (a) Establish National   11. Output:                         11. Start:
Framework for Railway           Railway Authority to ensure  Regulatory systems for                 Third Quarter 1991.
Services                        fair competition and           national railway systems and
efficient services; and (b)  for metropolitan transport.           Completion:
establish Buenos Aires                                             Fourth Quarter
Passenger Authority to            Impact:                          1992.
regulate/fund passenger        Prevents monopolistic
services within Buenos         behavior by operators and
Aires (70MM - US$G.98          ensures efficient                                          X
million).                      interconnection of transport                              i 
systems.
$    ti1



ARGENTINA
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE REFORM EXECUTION PROJECT (PEREL)
PROJECT ACTIVITIES
PROJECT COMPONENT               EXPECTED OUTPUT              TIMING TARGETS
MAIN OBJECTIVES                 ACTIVITIES                         IMPACT               (starting/completion)
HYDROCARBONS
1. Define and Establish   1. Development of strategic        1. Output                 1. Start:
New YPF's Role After       plan for new YPF (33MM plus       (a) Strategic plan in        Second Quarter 1991
Restructuring/             training - US$0.36 million).    the long term for new
Privatization Under                                          YPF entity;                  Completion:
Competitive Environment.                                     (b) Action plan for          First Quarter 1992.
central government to
achieve administrative
and financial autonomy
for the enterprise;
(c) Development of
performance criteria
for YPF;
(d) TOR for                                           I
implementing new'
business units for YPF
(see 2)
Impact
Improve competitiveness
of YPF.
2. Provide Commercial      2. Implementation of new         2. Output                  2. Start:
Orientation to New YPF.   business units for YPF (80 MM   (a) Organization of new         Fourth Quarter 1991.
- US$0.98 million).              business units;
(b) Development of           Completion:
management processes         Fourth Quarter 1992.
and systems.
Impact                      
Profit centers to                                 8 to
develop in accordance                             F
to markets.
0% rt



ARGENTINA
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE REFORM EXECUTION PROJECT (PEREL)
PROJECT ACTIVITIES
PROJECT COMPONENT              EXPECTED OUTPUT              TIMING TARGETS
MAIN OBJECTIVES                 ACTIVITIES                       IMPACT               (starting/completion)
3. Promote Market         3. Divestiture of selected YPF  3. Output                  3. Start:
Competition Including     operations (119MM - US$0.92      (a) Analysis and             Second Quarter 1991.
Improved Competitiveness  million).                        evaluation of all         Every six months starting
of YPF's Operations.                                       assets with potential    third quarter 1991
for privatization or     preparation of at least
joint ventures;          two operations for
(b) Selection of         privatization until First
preferred ownership      Quarter 1993.
structures for each
operation;
(c) Valuation of units
to be privatized;
(d) Assistance in
preparation of bidding
documents and
negotiation.                                         W
Impact
Elimination of money
losing operations;
increased efficiency of
YPF' s operations;
increased investments
to meet market needs.
0
Ct
1~4



ARGENTINA
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE REFORM EXECUTION PROJECT (PEREL)
PROJECT ACTIVITIES
PROJECT COMPONENT              EXPECTED OUTPUT              TIMING TARGETS
MAIN OBJECTIVES                 ACTIVITIES                        IMPACT              (startinglcompletion)
4. Privatization of       4. Assist GovernmentlGdE in    4. Outputs                  4. Start:
Natural Gas Pipelines     privatization of natural gas    (a) Analysis and              Second Quarter 1991.
and Distribution          pipelines and distribution       evaluation of assets         Completion:
Networks of GdE.          networks (56MM - US$0.84         with privatization           Fourth Quarter 1992.
million).                       potential;
(b) Selection of
preferred ownership
structures for each
business unit;
(c) Valuation of
businesses to be
privatized;
(d) assistance in
preparation of bidding
documents and
negotiation.
Impact
Reduction/elimination
of role of the state in
transport and
distribution of natural
gas.
0 0
o at
Ft- K-
W 



ARGENTINA
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE REFORM EXECUTION PROJECT (PEREL)
PROJECT ACTIVITIES
PRO.TJCT COMPONENT              EXPECTED OUTPUT               TIMING TARGETS
MAIN OBJECTIVES                 ACTIVITiES                         IMPACT               (starting/completion)
5. Establish Effective    5. Strengthen Government's         5. Output                 5. Starts
Policies and Regulations  policy and regulatory              (a) Establish minimum        Second Quarter 1991.
for Hydrocarbons Sector.  capabilities (12MM - US$0.4        regulations needed for
million).                         the sector while             Completion:
guaranteeing                 First Quarter 1992.
competitive markets;
(b) Evaluate current
Government's policy
making and regulatory
capabilities;
(c) Recommend new
organization and
required legislation
for the sector;
(d) Implement
recommendations.
Impact
Ensures national
objectives for
hydrocarbon sector
under competitive
framework.
0
H1 f



TIMETABLE AND MEASUREMENT CRITERIA
ACTIVITIES            KEY        1990           1991                   1992                          1993                MEASUREMENT
RESPONSIBILITY  IV    I     II    III   IV    I      II   III    IV    I      II   III    IV             CRITERIA
I PE REFORM FRAMEWORK
1. Coordinating     Subsecretary                                  IN      _     A                               ._ Quarterly reports and
Unit in ME       of Public                                                                                       semiannual supervision
Enterprises                                                                                     review missions.
(PE9)
2.(a) Develop       Subsecretary                                                                                    -Present strategic plans and
Strategic Plans   of PEs                                                                                           performnce evalustion
and Performance                                                                                                    systems for 4 PEs each: 
Evaluation                                                                                                         Fourth Quarter 1991.
Systses for PEe                                                                                                   -Semiannual reports:  Second
and Fourth Quarter 1992.
-Present strategic plans/
performance evaluation
systems for all PEs under
TOR: Second Quarter 1993.
(b) Upgrade       Subsecretary                        ..-                                                         -Oiagnosis of existing
SIGEP's MIS       of PEs/                                                                                          MIS: Third Quarter 1991.
SIGEP's                                                                                         -Program for upgrading
Interventor                                                                                      MIS: First Quarter 1 M  .
-Report on accomplish-
mont of MIS upgrading:
Second Quarter 1992.
co 
'-3



ACTIVITIES            KEY         1990          1991                   1992                          1993                 MEASUREMENT
RESPONSIBILITY  IV    I      II    III   IV    I     II   III    IV    I      II   III    IV             CRITERIA
3.(a) Development   Subsecretary      _         -.                                                                  -Preliminary assessment of
of Labor Manage-  of PEs                                                                                           excess labor and retire-
ment Strategy                                                                                                      ment proposals for FA, YPF
and dE: December 1990.
-Report completed according
to TOR: Second Quarter
1991.
(b) Extend Labor Subsecretary   - -    ...- -                                                                     -Initial report reflecting
Tsmk Force in     of PEs                                                                                           accomplishment of task
ME 1/                                                                                                              under TOR for Loan
2712-AR: First Quarter
1991.
Coordination                                                                                    -Final report according to
TOR: Second Quarter 1991.
(c) Renegotiato   Subsecretary                                                                                    -Mid-term report reflecting
Labor Agrements  of PEs                                                                                            advances in renegotiations:       Z_
and Monitor                                                                                                        Third Quarter 1991.
Retirement                                                                                                        -Final report on negotia-
tions according to TOR:
First Quarter 1992.
-Quarterly reports on nego-
tiations based on agreed
format.
4. Strongthen       Subsecretary                          _                                                         -Action plan addressing
Environmental    of PEs                                                                                           measures to control
Capabilities.                                                                                                     negative environmental
effects: First Quarter
1992.
-Recommendations for
institutional set-up and
legislation: First Quarter   ,'c)
1993.                          o



ACTIVITIES             KEY        1990           1991                   1992                           1993                MEASUREMENT
RESPONSIBILITY  IV    I      II    III   IV    I      II   III    IV    I       II   III    IV             CRITERIA
II TELECOMMUNI-
CATIONS SECTOR
REFORM
1. Management of
ENTel s *ale
2. Set-up Tele-     Subsecretary                                            _                                         -Present program for start-
communications   of PEs/                                                                                            up and implementation:
Coemlssion       Chairman of                                                                                        Second Quarter 1991.
NTC                                                                                              -Semi-annual reports
reflecting progress and
and next steps and
supervision missions.
III RAILWAYS SECTOR REFORM
1. Technical Unit   Subsecretary                                  -    -    .                 M      .p.   >          -Quarterly reports and semi-
ln FA            of PEs/                                                                                            annual supervision review
FA Interventor                                                                                    missions.
2. Analy2e Future   Subsecretary                                                                                      -Bidding documents for Roca
Cargo            of PEs/                                                                                            Line: Fourth Quarter 1991.
Concessions      FA                                                                                                -Bidding documents Belgrano
Interventor                                                                                       Line: Second Quarter 1992.
3. Restructure      Subsecretary        _          _                                                                  -Cost Study  Second Quarter
Interurban       of PEs/                                                                                            1991.
Passenger        FA                                                                                                -Action Plan  Second Quarter
Service          Interventor                                                                                        1991.
4. Privatize other  Subsecretary                                                                                      -Identification of possible  > 
fA Facilities    of PEs/                                                                                            concessions  First Quarter      X   Z
Interventor                                                                                      -Bidding documents for at        o
at least one concession
each quarter beginning
Third Quarter 1992.



ACTIVITIES            KEY         1990           1991                   19m                            1993                MEASUREMENT
RESPONSIBILITY  IV    I      II    III   IV    I      II   III    IV    I      II   III    IV             CRITERIA
6. Concesslon FA    Subsecret ry                                _   i      .                                          -Definition of
Rolling Stock    of PEs/                                                                                            concessionable
FA                                                                                                rolling stock: First
Interventor                                                                                       Quarter 1992.
-Financial Analysis: Second
Quarter 1M.
-Prototype agreements: Third
Quarter 1992.
S. Develop/Sell     Subeecretary                               )    XX                                                -4uidelines for asset
Excoes Assets    of PEs/                                                                                            management function: Fourth
FA                                                                                                Quarter 1991.
Interventor                                                                                      -Seim-annual progress
reports starting First
Quarter 1992
7. Establiah        Subeecretary                                            _ _                                       -Initiate retirement plan:
Employee         ot PEs/                                                                                            January 1991.
Managemont Unit  FA                                                                                                -Semi-annual progress
Interventor                                                                                       reports starting Third
Quarter 1991.
9. Restructure      Subsectrtary                                                                                      -Progress roport: First
Metropolitan     of PEa/                                                                                            Quarter 1992.
LUne) t/         FA                                                                                                -Final Report: Third
Interventor                                                                                       Quartor 1992.
9. Accounting Costs Subsecretary                   *- $                                                               -Final Roport: Third
and Insurance    of PEa/                                                                                            Quartet 1991.
Analyses         FA Intorventor
10.Changes In       Subsecrotary                   _                                                                  -Final report:
Operating        of PEa/                                                                                            Fourth Quarter 1991.           ;Ii
Practicos        FA Interventor                                                                                                                          .
11(a) Establish     Subsecretary                          e-__--: __ __ __ __ __ --       /                           -Organixation proposal:
National Railway  of PE/                                                                                             December 1991.
Authority         Subsecretary                                                                                      -Authority functioning:
of Transport                                                                                      Fourth Quarter 1992.



ACTIVITIES            KEY        1990          1991                   1992                          1993                MEASUREMENT
RESPONSIOILITY  IV    I     S1    III  IV    I       I1   III   IV    I      11   III   IV              CRITERIA
(b) Establish     Subscreotary                                 'A                                               -Organization proposal:
Metropolitan      of PEs/                                                                                         March I9m2.
Railway Authority Subsecrtary                                                                                    -Authority functioning:
of Transport                                                                                   Fourth quarter 1992.
IV OIL AND GAS SECTOR REFORM
1. Development of  Subsecretary                                                                                   -Strategic pion presented:
Strat gle Plan  of PE*/                                                                                         March  0, 1992.
for YPF         YPF/CdE
Intervontor
2. Implementation  Subsecretery                             o__    -  *              <-Organization proposl for
of Nbu Businoss of PEa/                                                                                         Businoes units: Seond
Units for YPF   YPF/QdE                                                                                         Quorter 1992.
Intarventor                                                                                   -Ostalled proposxl for
management processes and
systems: Fourth quarter
1992.
8. Dlv etiture ot Subsecretary                                                            -                       -Every six months starting
Selected YPF    of PEa/                                                                                         Fourth Quarter 1991
Opnertions A/  VPF/QdE                                                                                          significant proposls for
Interventor                                                                                    privatization/joint
vontures should bo
presented In accordane
with conditions under
PERAL.
4. Prlvatlzatlon   Subeftrotary                                         'A                                        -privatization proposals
N tural Gat     oe PEC/                                                                                         must bo developed In           old
Transport and   YPFGaE                                                                                         agreement with condition       00
Distribution    Interventor                                                                                     under PERAL by Fourth
quarter 1991.
-Additional proposals           " 
developed by Second and         1n"
Fourth Quorter 1992.



ACTIVITIES            KEY         1990          1991                   1 m                           1993                 MEASUREMENT
RESPONSIBILITY  IV    I      II    III  IV    I      II   III    IV    I      II   III    IV             CRITERIA
S. Strengthening   Subsecretary                                                                                    -Propose regulations:
Policy and      of FEs/                                                                                          Third Quarter 1991.
Regulatory      Subsecrota ry                                                                                   -Present evalustion of
Capability      of Energy                                                                                        Government's capabitlities:
Fourth Quarter 1992.
V. Other            Subsecretary                  - _                                                               -Criteria would be defined
Assistance /   of PEs                                                                                            according to agreed upon
TOR
FOOTNOTES
To toak foreo oas formed In September 1991 under financing from Public Sector Management
Technical Assistance Loan 2712-AR.
V/ A consulting company under a Canadian Grant is preparing a study for restructuring the
Metropolitan Line to be completed by March 1991. PEREL would finance implementation and
related computers and software.
/  By floating tranche release under PERAL, YPF must achieve significant progress in divestiture of
Its upstream *nd downstream facilities.  Intermediate outputs from this activity must be in
agreement with such requirements.
i/ To be defined *s Government's pr1vatization program results in additional requirements for
ansistance.
LEGEND
*       Beginning of activity.
x        Partial of final completion of activity.
Activity Initially under PPF or other financing.
o0
o h
CIN  ..



ARGENTINA
PUBUC ENTERPRISE REFORM
INSTITUTIONAL RESPONSIBILITIES
Organizatlon Chart
PRESIDENT
OF
| REPUBLIC                    STATE
EXTERNAL
AUDITOR
DEFENSE-                        M   I MMNISTRY OF                  MINISTRY OF
DEFENSE  _  _  _  _ _    ECONOMY         ____             PUBUC WORKS
SUB-SECRETARtIAT                  SUB-SECRETARIAT
OF                                     OF                   
PUBLIC ENTERPRISES                   PUBUC WOKS|
t-n
SUB-SECRETARIAT IUr  FCETAAT
OF ADMIN.                   _        of
COOROINATION                     COMMUNICATIONS
SUB-SECRETARIAT                 |SUBISECRETARIAT
OF                       ISPORT
ENERGY                           TFRtANSPORT 
IPUBLICI
ENTERPRISES
De"" tkn. Fimcfon
-     -  ~-   -  Denaole Coordnalon
EKiW4V827



