Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 16036
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ARGENTINA
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE REFORM EXECUTION LOAN (PEREL)
(LOAN 3292-AR)
OCTOBER 1, 1996
Public Sector Management and Private Sector Development Division
Country Department I
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfonnance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = 1 Peso
Exchanee Rate
I US Dollar  I Peso
(Since April 1, 1991, the exchange rate has been established by law)
GOVERNMENT OF ARGENTINA FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ATAM         Metropolitan Area Transport Authority
CNT          Comision Nacional de Telecomunicaciones
ENARGAS   Gas Regulatory Agency
ENTEL        Empresa Nacional de Telecomunicaciones
FA           Ferrocarriles Argentinos
GdE          Gas del Estado
GUTA         Gas Utilization & Technical Assistance Project
ICR          Implementation Completion Report
IDB          Inter American Development Bank
MEC          Ministry of Economy
PE           Public Enterprise
PERAL        Public Enterprise Reform Adjustment Loan
PEREL        Public Enterprise Reform Execution Loan
TU           Technical Unit
UNDP         United Nations Development Program
YPF          Yacimientos Petroliferos Fiscales



FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
ii
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ARGENTINA
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE REFORM EXECUTION LOAN (PEREL)
(LOAN 3292-AR)
Table of Contents
Page No.
Preface ............................................................                    iii
Evaluation Summary ............................................................. i .   - x
PART I         PROJECT ILEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A.    Background .......................................................1
B.     Project Objectives ......................................................         2
C.     Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project ...............    4
D.    Assessment of Outcome and Key Lessons Learned ................................  16
PART II        STATISTICAL ANNEX
Table 1: Summary of Assessments .18
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits .19
Table 3: Project Timetable .20
Table 4: Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual .20
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation .21
Table 6A: Project Costs              ..30
Table 6B: Project Financing             ..30
Table 7: Status of Legal Covenants.31
Table 8: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs .32
Table 9: Mssions .32
APPENDIX: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
This document has a restricted disuibution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
|official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed wiLhout World Bank authorization.






iii
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ARGENTINA
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE REFORM EXECUTION LOAN (PEREL)
(LOAN 3292-AR)
Preface
1.    This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Public Enterprise
Reform Execution Project (PEREL) in Argentina, for which Loan 3292-AR in the amount
of US$23 million equivalent was approved on February 12, 1991 and became effective on
June 21, 1991.
2.    The PEREL was closed on December 31, 1995, six months later than the original
closing date in the Loan Agreement. The final disbursement took place on December 26,
1995, and at that time a balance of US$14,630.38 remained uncommitted and was
canceled.
3.    The ICR was prepared by the Public Sector Modernization and Private Sector
Development Division of the Latin American Region.' The responsible Division Chief is
Paul Meo. The prime Task Manager was Alfredo Dammert.
4.    Preparation of this ICR was begun during a Bank mission that took place in April
1996. It is based on material in the project file and on perspectives gained by the Division
in its continued involvement in technical assistance projects and its support of numerous
privatization operations. The borrower contributed to the preparation of the ICR by
commenting on the draft ICR and by preparing its own evaluation of the Project's
execution, which has been reproduced (unedited) as the Appendix.
1 The author of this report is Mr. Claudio Pardo (Consultant).



I



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ARGENTINA
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE REFORM EXECUTION LOAN (PEREL)
(LOAN 3292-AR)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
A.    Introduction
1.    This US$23 million Public Enterprise Reform Execution Loan (PEREL) financed
technical assistance to accompany the Public Enterprise Reform Adjustment Loan
(PERAL), a US$300-million-equivalent adjustment operation that supported the
privatization and restructuring of bulky, inefficient and ineffective public enterprises
operating in the telecommunications, railways and oil and gas sectors of the Argentine
economy. Further, PEREL was aimed at strengthening the Government's administrative
and technical capabilities to carry out its Public Enterprise (PE) reform. It provided long-
term financing for the provision of consulting services, training and goods.
R     Project Objectives
2.    The project objectives as stated in the President's Report were to support: (a) the
total or partial privatization of four major PEs in Argentina as well as improvement of the
financial viability and service quality of non-privatized business units; (b) the preparation
of further privatization programs; and (c) the strengthening of the institutional and
regulatory framework for the sectors in which PEs operate. Another objective was to
engender competition within the private sector which had thrived financially under the
protective shield of government regulations, which had encouraged PE inefficiency.
3.    These general project objectives provided the basis for the definition of five
components under which the list of tasks, expected to be financed under PEREL, were
grouped: (a) the PE Reform Framework component dealt with issues that had an across-
the-board relevance and that were the responsibility of the Ministry of Economy (MEC),
the moving force behind the PE reform process; (b) the Telecommunications Sector
Reform component supported the sale of ENTel and the establishment of the National
Telecommunications Commission; (c) the Railways Sector Reform was designed to
facilitate the privatization of "Ferrrocarriles Argentinos" (FA) and the establishment of the



ii
railways industry's regulatory framework; (d) the Oil and Gas Sector Reform component
supported the process of privatization/restructuring of "Yacimientos Petroliferos Fiscales"
(YPF) and of the pipelines and distribution networks of "Gas del Estado" (GdE) plus the
strengthening of the Government's regulatory capabilities in the hydrocarbon sector; and
(e) the Other Assistance component included funding to prepare and carry out
privatization and restructuring activities in seven well identified PEs, plus some generic
funding for the same purpose.
4.    The Bank and the borrower understood from the outset that, to make the process
of restructuring and privatization of PEs possible, the Government required massive
outside support from foreign and local experts, such as technical specialists, investment
bankers, auditors and attorneys, which could not be provided by the Government's own
pool of human resources. Also, crucial information systems had to be created or
improved and financing for the necessary equipment identified.
5.    The PE reform took place in a charged atmosphere of an economic crisis but
against the background of a strong political will and a consensus behind actions that could
address macroeconomic instability swiftly and effectively. A deep reform of the public
sector, including a thorough program of privatization of public services and enterprises,
was seen by the Government as central to these efforts. The Bank, on the other hand, had
accumulated a wealth of knowledge and information in prior years during unsuccessful
efforts to convince the Alfonsin Administration to carry out substantial PE reform. The
needs for technical assistance were also well documented at the Bank. However, the
reality remained that the accelerated process of PE reform started by the Menem
Administration begun without a detailed or even a complete blueprint. This was
understandable, given the urgent need for a speedy implementation and the inexperience in
reforms of such magnitude. Furthermore, from the Government's perspective, it was
important to take advantage of the window of opportunity for PE reform that had opened
up on the political front.
6.    In this context and with today's hindsight, PEREL's detailed list of tasks and their
timetable was, perhaps, too ambitious as it tried to identify beforehand the use of
practically every dollar budgeted. At the end, the actual matrix of tasks supported by the
Project looked quite different from the one originally proposed (see Tables 5 and 6A in the
Statistical Annex). A higher degree of flexibility in the structuring of the Project could
have facilitated the procurement of goods and services associated with it, particularly
given the complexity and dynamic nature of privatizations. All this added extra work and
some delays to the implementation stage. During project preparation, however, the Bank
memories of earlier disappointments with PE privatization and restructuring--and loose
definitions of technical asisstance loans--were still quite fresh and, understandably, the
strategy of maximum level of task identification was followed. It was indeed the merit of
the Government's execution capabilities combined with the Bank's prompt authorizations
of change that allowed this project to achieve its stated objectives and provide solid
support to the PE privatization effort, which reached well beyond its original goals.



iii
C     Implementation Experience and Results
7.    It was well recognized from the outset by the Government and the Bank that the
former did not have in place the capabilities to administer properly the implementation of
the technical assistance supported by PEREL. To create the necessary conditions for
project implementation, the Loan Agreement included provisions for the borrower to: (a)
maintain at MEC a Project Coordinating Unit; (b) maintain Technical Units in all
Executing Agencies; and (c) enter into a contractual arrangement, satisfactory to the
Bank, with a procurement agent for the Project.
8.    The specially created Coordinating Unit had a highly satisfactory performance and
was crucial for the effective and efficient implementation of the Project. Its organizational
chart was agreed in the context of the Loan Agreement. It had a Director that provided
the necessary political connection to the Government's economic team and a full-time
Deputy Director in charge of the day-to-day operation. This Unit took care of all the
necessary administrative arrangements for the hiring of consultants and the procurement of
goods. Also, it reviewed reports and the work of consultants and made sure to get
feedback from the Government and the various Executing Agencies associated with
PEREL. Furthermore, it provided a very useful direct link to the Government for the
Bank staff, which facilitated overall project execution and supervision.
9.    Another factor in the successful implementation of the Project was the
establishment of a Technical Unit in FA and the use of an experienced unit that existed
already in YPF. Besides the Ministry of Economy (MEC) these were the two principal
Executing Agencies for PEREL. The units at Ferrocarrices Argentinos (FA) and
Yacimientos Petroliferos Fiscales (YPF) were in charge of identifying, contracting and
monitoring the activities required for the restructuring and privatization in the railways and
hydrocarbon sectors, respectively. Both Technical Units were ably directed and active,
although the one at YPF spent none of the allocated project funds for YPF as it used its
own resources, grant money and funding from a previous technical assistance Bank loan
(the 1985 Gas Utilization and Technical Assisstance Project (GUTA), Loan 2592-AR) to
secure the technical support required for the privatization and restructuring of YPF. Its
contribution to PEREL was in the execution of technical assistance for the privatization of
Gas del Estado (GdE) and the development of the regulatory commission created to
supervise the newly privatized gas sector. On the other hand, the impact of PEREL's
funding on the work of the Technical Unit (TU) at FA was quite significant. Most of the
work carried out by this well-managed Unit was paid for by PEREL, making the railways
component by far the largest recipient of funds among the project's components.
10.   The Government relied on the services of United Nations Development Program
(UNDP) to provide the procurement services required by the Project. This requirement of
a dedicated procurement agent had more to it than the recognition of a lack of experience
by the Executing Agencies with the Bank's procurement practices. The purchase of
goods and the hiring of consultants required to execute a technical assistance project such
as PEREL, normally ran into serious problems in Argentina. Besides a variety of
budgetary difficulties encountered when trying to hire outside experts at market rates,



iv
there was the issue of staging timely and efficient bidding processes without getting caught
in a myriad of legal disputes. To this day the Argentine Government has not resolved the
tax, administrative and legal issues that impedes it to carry out effectively its own
procurement in connection with Bank loans. Thus, the solution traditionally has been the
use of a procurement agent which allowed a higher degree of hiring freedom and immunity
from frivolous legal actions.
11.   Although the use of an outside procurement agent does not appear as having been
a major factor affecting the implementation of the Project, there is a general feeling among
participants that adding another layer of decision making not only increased the cost but
also delayed the contracting process. The point about the cost of using an outside
procurement agent is not trivial, as illustrated by the fact that US$1.13 million were spent
in the provision of these services for PEREL or 4.9% of the loan. Originally, the Bank
Loan did not explicitly budget funding to cover procurement services, but during
implementation the Bank agreed to include them when it became apparent that it would be
difficult to secure the needed funds from other sources.
12.   As already explained, the most active component of PEREL was the Railways
Sector Reform, a component that followed closely the original work program, although
this was expanded during implementation as the Government decided to add to the
program the privatization of the metropolitan passenger services. At the end, some US$1
million of PEREL funds were spent in the restructuring and privatization of the
metropolitan railways lines. The extension of the privatization drive beyond FA made it
necessary also to concentrate additional funding for technical assistance required for the
setting up of a broader regulatory framework for the sector.
13.   PEREL reviews and anlysis were crucial to define the Government's strategic plan
followed in the privatization of railway services. It was based on a program of
concessions of cargo lines and of the urban passenger services in Greater Buenos Aires.
PEREL support was quite successful, although there were two areas which used
significant amounts of the Project's resources, where results have been slow in coming.
One was the program to divest the Government of FA's vast real estate assets. Here the
Government decided to change strategy and centralize the process of disposing of residual
assets originating from all privatized PEs in a specialized office at MEC. The other
delayed program is the putting in place of a fully operational authority to regulate the
sector and administer the Government subsidies still going to the Buenos Aires
metropolitan transportation services. The problem here is basically of a political nature.
In fact, the new Metropolitan Area Transport Authority (ATAM) was created by decree
as part of PERAL conditionality, but Congress's approval of a Law turned out to be
elusive. As an interim measure, however, the TU at FA has taken over and is carrying out
the day-to-day supervisory and regulatory responsibilities connected with metropolitan
transportation services.
14.   In the case of the PE Reform Framework component there were significant
changes during the implementation of the Project. These came as a result of a change in
the Government's own strategy towards a more direct handling of some of the central and



v
most sensitive issues of the PR reform, such as strategic PE privatization planning and the
fiscal impact and human resources implications.
15.   The Telecommunications Sector Reform component had two tasks, one of which
was quite challenging: the achievement of full operational efficiency of the CNT, the
regulatory agency of the newly privatized telecommunications sector. Although
significant progress was achieved in initiating this regulatory agency, even today CNT has
yet to reach full operational efficiency. Important regulatory issues remain unresolved,
while the information system to assess the performance of licencees requires significant
upgrade.
16.   As already explained, the resources allocated to the Oil and Gas Sector component
were used on tasks related to the gas industry. In this case, able management and the
strong support of YPF, and prior as well as ongoing technical assistance financed by the
Bank, had more regulatory impact and today ENARGAS, the regulatory entity for the
sector, is a reality. The contribution of PEREL plus a strong body of earlier Bank work on
the sector, which also relied on the prior technical assistance components of the GUTA
project, greatly helped to shape the design of the regulatory environment and of the
industry as well.
17.   A list of tasks added during project implementation was for the benefit of the
privatization of enterprises under the umbrella of the Ministry of Defense. This was
related to conditionality associated with PERAL II, the second sectoral adjustment loan
targeted at defense-related public enterprise reform. Six tasks were included in this new
component of US$1.2 million, of which the bulk went to cover the retainer fees of the
financial advisors involved in the privatization of two petrochemical plants: Bahia Blanca
and General Mosconi.
18.   Practically nothing was disbursed in connection with the privatization or
restructuring of the seven enterprises included in the original Other Assistance component
of the Project. In part this was because PEREL was used as a residual source of funding,
although it was not designed originally for this purpose. In practice, however, due to the
massive nature of the privatization effort, several other funding sources were required,
some of which were more timely and lent themselves more easily to support the
restructuring/privatization of PEs originally included in PEREL's list of tasks.
19.   One component that merits some special comments was developed ex-post to
project preparation. This component allowed MEC to update the hardware and software
required to develop a computerized on-line information system at this Ministry. About
US$2.5 million from PEREL went to purchase the computing and related equipment and
the necessary software to develop two programs: (a) an electronic central filing system for
documentation maintained at MEC, including that related to residual PEs; and (b) an
information system for MEC with on-line connections to a central server.
20.   Originally PEREL budgeted US$800,000 for the purchasing of goods, mostly
computer equipment for the Buenos Aires metropolitan railway lines and the two
regulatory agencies foreseen to be needed for the railways sector. However, no



vi
equipment was actually purchased for these purposes. This funding plus some other
originally budgeted for consulting services and the repayment of the Project Preparation
Facility advance were reallocated to the programs being developed at MEC. These
programs were carried out late in the implementation stage, when the demand for
technical assistance from other components had subsided.
21.   To some extent the equipment authorizations that followed were consistent with
the objective of providing the Government with tools to adequately assess and monitor the
fiscal and other implications of the PE reform program. However, in the case of the on-
line information system installed at MEC it is difficult to justify the expenditure solely on
the basis of the project objectives as stated in the Loan Agreement. Independently of the
merits of the system installed, which in any event appears to be quite successful and very
cost-effective, the Bank probably would have been better served by trying to broaden first
the objectives of the Project to include among them the general improvement in the
effectiveness and productivity of MEC. As it stands, a substantial portion of the
equipment purchased by MEC with PEREL funding only partially and indirectly
contributed to the achievement of the objectives of the Project.
22.   In summary, had it not been for the some of the issues raised in connection with
the computing equipment purchased by MEC, the implementation record on balance could
have been described as highly satisfactory. From the perspective of the borrower,
although there were some delays in getting the project moving, in the end the technical
assistance provided by PEREL was quite effective in supporting a broader and deeper
privatization program than the one that originally seemed possible.
23.   Bank Performance: PEREL's own success was very dependent on the success
of PERAL. Judged from a historical perspective, a sectoral adjustment operation
supporting PE privatization and restructuring in Argentina was highly risky for the Bank.
This had been tried in the past and the effort had been unsuccessful. Besides, there was
little experience in Argentina when it came to the privatization of public enterprises.
There was, then, a double risk for PEREL, that of PERAL plus its own intrinsic risks as a
technical assistance operation.
24.   Although the success of PERAL gave no assurances on the outcome of PEREL,
the fact that the Government was able to move forcefully with its PE reform program no
doubt was a great plus towards the success of PEREL, whose fate was intertwined with
that of PERAL. However, it was because of PEREL's achievement in meeting its goals,
its flexibility in adapting to changing circumstances and its effectiveness in supporting the
process of PE reform that qualifies the overall Bank performance as satisfactory.
Furthermore, it could be said that the successful outcome of PERAL, particularly in
connection with the restructuring and privatization of the railways sector, also relied on
the effective support provided by PEREL.
25.   As in the case of PERAL, the identification of PEREL benefited greatly from the
large amount of sector work done by the Bank and associated consultants in years prior
to the preparation of the Project. This proved valuable for the Government in its efforts to



vii
define the specific goals and details of its PE reform program and those of the
accompanying technical assistance program. From this perspective, the identification
work done by the Bank in connection with PEREL was highly satisfactory.
26.   During preparation the Bank concentrated on defining a detailed work plan for the
long list of tasks expected to be carried out during project implementation. Many were
singled out for inclusion in an Implementation Program, which included specific start and
completion dates and that became part of the Loan Agreement (Schedule 5). From
today's perspective, this effort was mostly wasted since this Implementation Program
became out of touch with the speed and dynamics of the privatization process soon after
the project started to be implemented. Perhaps a more fruitful effort during project
preparation by the Bank would have been to concentrate on an intermediate stage, that of
translating the main project objectives into a clearer and more detailed list of goals to be
achieved. This could have been reinforced with the definition of a flexible work plan,
which included only the principal tasks identified plus a set of procedures for further task
selection. Other specific tasks, then, could have been agreed with the borrower during
implementation and added to the work program as needed. Although the approach taken
at the time of preparation is understandable from the perspective of early experience with
privatization in Argentina, this certainly caused the implementation process to lose clarity
and the supervision work to become more difficult to follow.
27.   On the other hand, project implementation was greatly facilitated by the decision
of the Bank to insist on putting in place from the beginning a well though out
administrative structure for project execution. This was a merit of the Bank's project
preparation process.
28.   During implementation, there were two areas in which Bank decision making
should have been more forcefully applied. Rather than canceling non-committed funds,
the Bank decided to accept requests made by the borrower to purchase computing
equipment to carry out a program only marginally related to the original objectives of
PEREL. Secondly, the Bank did not insist with the Government to maintain records on
the counterpart funds it contributed to the Project, which were substantial in some cases,
such as those of the privatizations that took place in the oil and gas industries.
29. Borrower Performance: One of the merits of the Menem Administration at the
time of project preparation was to have had an economic team not only willing to take
strong measures to alleviate the public sector crisis but to be ready to move forcefully and
decisively ahead once a political decision was made. The PE reform program benefited
from this. Also, there was an unusual degree of continuity in the Government's economic
team which executed the project, which certainly helped with the preparation and
implementation of PEREL. Furthermore, it was very useful that the Director and Deputy
Director of the Project Coordinating Unit were involved from the initial stages of the
project.
30.   Although implementation of PEREL started with a few months' delay, once the
Project became operational the solid performance of the Coordinating Unit at MEC and



viii
the Technical Units in the Executing Agencies soon started to show the advantages of the
framework chosen for administering project implementation. During the almost five years
the Coordinating Unit worked for the Project, some 55 contracts were signed with
consulting firms and 68 with individual consultants. Today the Coordinating Unit
continues to operate under the same Deputy Director providing support for other Bank
projects.
31.   All seven covenants in the Legal Agreement that imposed some specific
responsibilities during implementation were fulfilled by the borrower, although some with
delays and in two cases with modifications agreed with the Bank. The list and record of
compliance is included in Table 7 of the Statistical Annex.
32.   On the broader implementation issues the most striking feature is the much slower
than anticipated process of institution-building in connection with the regulatory entities of
the important telecommunications and urban transport sector. However, this can be only
partially blamed on deficiencies in the project implementation process. Rather, the
difficulties had a great deal more to do with the delaying impact of the political and legal
turmoil that developed among competing pressure groups following the privatization of
these two sectors. Although far from justifying the Argentine case, the experience in other
places of the world shows that the process of building new regulatory institutions is one of
the most difficult to accomplish, particularly when there is no tradition and a tight
schedule to follow, as it was the case for these two regulatory agencies.
D.    Summary of Findings, Future Operations and Key Lessons Learned
33.   The overall assessment of the outcome of the Project is satisfactory, particularly
because the broader project objectives were achieved. This was a high-risk project that
required on the part of the borrower a great deal of political commitment for an ambitious
and difficult public enterprise reform program. By its very nature the PE privatization
process was a one-time big historic event, for which it is impossible to find enough
experience. Thus, this was a demanding project from the perspective of its goals as well
as its implementation. Furthermore, it required a joint and well coordinated effort on the
part of the PERAL and PEREL teams, plus a high degree of responsiveness on the part of
the Bank to accommodate the project to the changes that took place in the borrower's
circumstances and priorities during the project implementation. Had the Bank staff not
shown flexibility during implementation, the Project would undoubtedly have been less
effective in providing support to the impressive transformation of the Argentine economy
brought about by the profound changes in its PE sector.
34.   One general lesson of this technical assistance project is that it pays to concentrate
during project preparation on the design of a sound administrative structure for this type
of project. However, more thought should be given in the future to the high transactions
costs faced by the borrower in the delivery of the technical assistance to the final user.
The loan size for this type of operation is normally quite small by Bank standards, so its
administration can easily absorb a high portion of the funds committed by the Bank. In the
case of Argentina the problem is aggravated because of the numerous difficulties that exist



ix
to solve the issue of procurement satisfactorily. Special efforts should continue to solve
the legal, tax and budgetary issues that impede the adoption of more cost-effective
procurement formulas in Argentina. Clearly, the use of procurement agents is not cost-
effective. Moreover, another related lesson of PEREL is that a special effort should be
made during project preparation to estimate more thoroughly the direct costs of
administering the technical assistance by the borrower, whether the associated Bank loan
finances them or not. In the case of PEREL such evaluation was only partially done and
then, when the issue of the cost of the procurement agent and the external auditors arose,
funds had to be reallocated from other components of the Project because other sources of
funding could not be found.
35.   The implementation of most technical assistance projects requires the hiring of
consulting services. PEREL was not different in this respect since 86% of the disbursed
funds went to pay for such services. The experience with the Project was that consulting
firms as a norm are quite reliable and efficient but that their services have a unitary cost
(consultant/month) considerably higher than that of individual consultants. These, on the
other hand, showed a much higher variance in terms of their reliability and quality of
work. Thus, considerably more time and effort was spent on their selection. The
contracting process for individual consultants also is more time-consuming simply because
of the larger number of contracts. These are some of the same reasons why the Bank
prefers that borrowers hire consulting firms. Supervision also is facilitated with this
strategy. It should be highlighted, however, that in the case of PEREL there was a
satisfactory experience with individual consultants in the case of FA, particularly when
consulting services were required for prolonged periods of time. It would have been very
expensive to have had the same steady flow of technical support had consulting firms been
hired to do the job. FA had a limited amount of resources to do a huge privatization job,
so the point was quite relevant. Indeed, the privatization of railway services does appear
to have been on the low side when compared with the privatization of other PEs
supported by PEREL. However, it should be kept in mind that the management team at
the Technical Unit of FA was unusually able, which facilitated the task of coordinating a
large contingent of individual consultants, perhaps making the experience hard to replicate
under more standard circumstances.
36.   Another lesson confirmed by PEREL is that, as a general rule, there is a tendency
by borrowers to overestimate their capacity to absorb technical assistance. PEREL shows
that even in the context of a successful adjustment program and a sound project
management team such capacity is limited. Moreover, once the loan amount is set the
borrower does tend to see it as a disbursement goal rather than as a ceiling. On the other
hand, the Bank staff finds it difficult to say no to authorization requests coming out of
good executing agencies. Authorization of redundant funds for tasks marginally related to
a project's objectives easily becomes a way to reward good performance. Although it is
difficult to say what the rule should be, a special effort should be made during the
preparation stage of a technical assistance operation to assess the absorptive capacity of
the executing agencies, ideally based on some parameters derived from the Bank's
experience. Also, there should be an agreed timetable with the borrower, to be
coordinated with the supervision schedule, to exchange views over the projected



x
commitment profile and the actions that should follow if the size of the loan, the closing
date or both merit a revision.
37.   Finally, there is one lesson that has to do more with PERAL. A technical
assistance operation, however effective, cannot by itself achieve results in matters that
require decisive political action or complex decisions. This is clearly a job more attuned to
adjustment operations. The incomplete jobs in the case of the regulatory agencies for the
telecommunications and the urban transport sectors is a good example. In both cases it
would have been productive if the sectoral adjustment program could have continued
beyond the privatization of ENTel and FA and included conditionality associated with
further operational progress of the regulatory entities. The technical aspects of regulation
for these two sectors were reasonably covered by PEREL, and it would have been ideal to
have been able to count on, say, an additional tranche of PERAL to tie down solid
progress on the regulatory front of the PE reform.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ARGENTINA
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE REFORM EXECUTION LOAN (PEREL)
(LoAN 3292-AR)
I. PROJECT IPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A     Background
1.    PEREL was the technical assistance loan for the equivalent of US$23 million made
to the Argentine Republic to accompany the Public Enterprise Reform Adjustment Loan
(PERAL). This latter loan of US$300 equivalent supported one of the policy
centerpieces of the first Menem Administration: the reform of a bulky, inefficient and
ineffective public enterprise sector. The main objectives of this reform were to: (a) reduce
the role of the state; (b) increase production and improve quality of service; and (c)
promote private sector investment. In practice, the Government tried to achieve these
objectives by the adoption of policies directed at: (i) privatizing PEs whenever possible;
(ii) strengthening the Government's oversight as a shareholder and restructuring those PEs
which could not be privatized; (iii) setting clear rules of the game and transparency of
control by establishing regulatory processes and agencies; and (iv) rationalizing labor
management by reducing employment commensurate with efficient operations, eliminating
antiproductivity provisions in contracts and practices, and limiting the role of labor unions
in PE management.
2.    In this context, PEREL was seen as a further pillar to strengthen the Government's
administrative and technical capabilities to carry out its PE reform program. PEREL was
a vehicle to provide financing for the contracting out of services and equipment necessary
for the implementation of the reform, mainly for the achievement of PERAL objectives but
not limited to them.
3.    Originally, PEREL was going to be one more component of PERAL, an idea that
was abandoned when it became clear that effective technical assistance support for the PE
reform program required a special focus, separate management and a longer execution
period than the timetable advisable for the policy components of PERAL, which was
designed as a relatively quick-disbursing balance-of-payments support operation linked to
privatizations in the telecommunications, railways and oil and gas sectors. As explained in



2
detail in the PERAL Project Completion Report (No. 13457), the great majority of the
disbursement conditions were fully met in a timely manner, with disbursements of the
Railway and Hydrocarbon Tranches in December 1992 and February 1993, respectively,
which led to an earlier closing of this policy operation in March of 1993. PEREL did go
beyond the specific privatization objectives of PERAL, and part of the financing it
provided was targeted to support future extensions of the PE reform program.
Ba    Project Objectives
4.    The project objectives as stated in the President's Report were to support: (a) the
total or partial privatization of four major PEs in Argentina as well as improvement of the
financial viability and service quality in non-privatized business units; (b) the preparation
of further privatization programs; and (c) the strengthening of the institutional and
regulatory framework for the sectors in which PEs operate. Another objective was to
engender competition within a large segment of the private sector, which had thrived
financially under the protective shield of government regulations that encouraged PE
inefficiency.
5.    The generality of the project objectives was converted into a detailed list of tasks
budgeted for financing under PEREL. Indeed, the identified list was quite long and
specific, as it grouped the tasks to be financed into five main project components: a) PE
Reform Framework, the component which included tasks of across-the-board relevance in
the privatization effort and that were the responsibility of the Ministry of Economy
(MEC), the moving force behind the PE reform process; b) Telecommunications Sector
Reform, the component set to support the sale of ENTel and the regulatory development
of the National Telecommunications Commission; c) Railways Sector Reform, the
component with the biggest budget (some 31% of the Bank Loan) and with the longest list
of identified items, which was designed to facilitate the privatization of FA facilities and
the establishment of the railways industry's regulatory framework; d) Oil and Gas Sector
Reforrn, a component that supported the process of privatization/restructuring of YPF and
of the pipelines and distribution networks of GdE plus the strengthening of the
Government's regulatory capabilities in the hydrocarbon sector; and e) Other Assistance, a
component that included funding to prepare and carry out privatization and restructuring
activities in seven other well identified PEs, together with generic budgeting for the same
purpose but without the singling out of the recipient PEs (although the Bank's hope was
that these funds could be used to facilitate the privatization of enterprises in the Defense
Complex, as actually occurred).
6.    The need to provide technical assistance for the privatization effort was clear from
the outset of the reform process, and the Bank gave a strong signal of support by helping
to secure substantial funding for project preparation from several sources.  It was
understood that to make privatization possible, the Government required continued
massive outside support from foreign and domestic experts, such as sectoral specialists,
investment bankers, auditors and attomeys, which could not be provided in the scale
required by the Government's own pool of human resources. Also, crucial information



3
systems had to be created or exiting ones had to be improved, which required of additional
financing.
7.    Within this framework, PEREL was clearly focused on making these necessary
inputs available to the process of PE privatization. However, the detailed design of the
Project was perhaps too ambitious, as it tried to identify beforehand the use of practically
every dollar budgeted, which during implementation ended up causing delays in the
approval and procurement process. This imposed additional work during implementation,
when rapidly changing conditions in the privatization arena meant that significant changes
and additions had to be made to the various tasks of PEREL. As a consequence, there
was quite a difference between the original detailed task matrix and the actuals after
implementation (as is clearly illustrated by the breakdown in Table 6A of the Statistical
Appendix).
8.    It has to be kept in mind that PEREL was part of a much larger package of
financial support provided by the Bank to assist the massive public sector reform program
of the first Menem Administration. Such reform took place in a charged atmosphere of a
confidence crisis but against the background of a strong political will and a consensus
behind actions that could address macroeconomic instability swiftly and effectively. A
deep reform of the public sector, including a thorough program of privatization of public
services and enterprises, was seen by the Government as central to these efforts. The
Bank had already tried, although unsuccessfully, to convince the prior Alfonsin
Administration to carry out substantial PE reform. Thus, there was a great deal of
accumulated knowledge on the necessary reforms and the needs for technical assistance on
the part of the Bank staff. However, the reality remained that the accelerated process of
reform started by the Menem Administration began without a detailed or even a complete
blueprint. This was understandable, given the urgent need for a speedy implementation
and the inexperience in reforms of such magnitude. Furthermore, from the Government's
perspective, it was important to take advantage of the window of opportunity for PE
reform that had opened up on the political front.
9.    With today's hindsight, it could be argued that the design of PEREL should have
taken a more pragmatic route, introducing from the beginning a higher degree of flexibility
in the detailed list of tasks eligible for financing, so that this technical assistance project
could have more easily adapted to the changes taking place in an exceedingly dynamic
process, as it was the simultaneous privatization of so many publicly-held enterprises.
However, the Bank clearly favored at appraisal a maximum level of task identification.
Perhaps determining factors were earlier disappointments with PE reform in Argentina and
with the implementation of prior technical assistance programs, which strongly advised in
favor of a much more detailed design and a tighter legal agreement for PEREL. At the
end, it was the merit of the Government's implementation record combined with the
prompt change-authorizations provided by the Bank during implementation that allowed
this project to achieve its stated objectives in a substantive way. Indeed, PEREL was able
to provide solid support to the PE privatization effort which reached well beyond its
original goals.



4
C.    Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project
10.   Several factors influenced project implementation. The most determining one was
the dynamics of the privatization process itself, which at the end went much further and
reached a faster pace than most anticipated. The major risks seen at the time of the
President's Report were that..." key activities may not be implemented as originally
planned due to technical difficulties, political opposition, and pressures from private
parties." However, none of these risks actually prevented project implementation. On the
contrary, the political momentum of the PE reform accelerated rapidly during project
execution, when one of the major risks became the possible lack of technical ability on the
part of the Government to keep up with the desired pace of change. Here, PEREL
became an important player and part of the reform process, particularly in the area of
railway reform. As commented on before, there was a need during implementation to
constantly adapt the detailed lists of tasks to cover the new needs arising from the
unfolding of the privatization process. In this context, the good rapport that existed
throughout project implementation between the Bank, the Coordinating Unit at MEC and
the Technical Units of the principal Executing Agencies was an essential ingredient in the
results acheived.
11.   It was well recognized from the outset by the Government and the Bank that the
former did not have in place the capabilities to administer properly the implementation of
the technical assistance supported by PEREL. To create the necessary conditions for
project implementation, the Loan Agreement included provisions for the borrower to: a)
maintain in MEC a Project Coordinating Unit with functions and responsibilities during
project execution satisfactory to the Bank; b) maintain qualified staff in adequate numbers
as counterparts of the consultants employed under the project in all Executing Agencies;
and c) enter into a contractual arrangement, satisfactory to the Bank, with a procurement
agent for the Project.
12.   The specially created Coordinating Unit had a highly satisfactory performance, and
was crucial for the effective and efficient implementation of the Project. Its organizational
chart, agreed in the context of the Loan Agreement, had a Secretary or Sub-secretary of
MEC as its head --which provided the necessary political connection to the Government's
economic team-- and a full-time Deputy Director in charge of the day-to-day operation of
the Unit.  This Coordinating Unit took care of all the necessary administrative
arrangements for the hiring of consultants and the procurement of goods.  Also, it
reviewed reports and the work of consultants and made sure to get feedback from the
Government and the various Executing Agencies associated with PEREL. Furthermore, it
provided a very useful direct link to the Government for the Bank staff, which facilitated
overall project execution and supervision.
13.   Another important factor in the successful implementation of the Project was the
establishment of a Technical Unit in FA and the use of an experienced unit that already
existed in YPF. Besides MEC, these were the two principal Executing Agencies for
PEREL. The units at FA and YPF were in charge of identifying, contracting and
monitoring the activities required for the restructuring and privatization in the railways and



5
hydrocarbon sectors, respectively. The Technical Unit at FA was by far the most active in
the use of PEREL funds, since it was involved in the execution of some US$8 million
financed by this loan, or about US$900,000 more than originally estimated. The Technical
Unit at YPF worked very actively also, but it spent none of the allocated project funds for
YPF as it used its own resources, grant money and funding from the GUTA loan to secure
the technical assistance required for the privatization and restructuring of YPF. The
contribution of YPF's Technical Unit to PEREL was in the execution of technical
assistance for some US$2.7 million required for the privatization of GdE and the
development of ENARGAS, the regulatory commission created to supervise the newly
privatized gas sector.
14.   The need for an outside procurement agent had its origin in part in the initial lack
of expertise of MEC with the procurement norms of the Bank. The issue however was
more complex, since even after that expertise was acquired by the Coordinating and
Technical Units, the Government still preferred to rely on the services of an international
agency to do the job of procurement agent for PEREL. This problem is a recurring one
and to this day the Government still needs to resolve the tax, administrative and budgetary
issues that make it undesirable for it to handle procurement. For tax and legal immunity
reasons, these traditionally have been contracted out to UNDP.
15.   Although the use of an outside procurement agent does not appear as having been
a major factor affecting the implementation of the Project, participants considered that
adding another layer of decision making not only added to the cost but that inexorably
delays did tend to occur in the contracting process. The point about the cost of using an
outside procurement agent is not trivial, as illustrated by the fact that US$1.13 million
(4.9% of the loan) were spent in the provision of these services for PEREL. This figure
puts an upper limit in this case to the fiscal cost associated with the non-resolution of the
procurement issue by the Government, a service which technically speaking could easily
be handled in-house, say for example by the Coordinating Unit itself --most likely at a
fraction of the current cost.
16.   PEREL originally did not budget funding to cover procurement services. This
could have caused project delays had the Bank not accepted ex-post to include these
expenditures as part of the Project.  There was a dated covenant that required the
borrower to hire a procurement agent by early 1991, and at the time it would have been
quite difficult on short notice to secure resources for this purpose from the Government's
general budget. The same could be said of the payments made to PEREL's external
auditors (US$193,222), whose services were eventually paid out of PEREL funds, even
though they were not included in the originally negotiated budget of the Project. All told,
these outside transactional costs accounted for 5.7% of the total amount disbursed under
PEREL.
17.   As the case above shows, the detailed list of tasks to be financed by PEREL
changed during implementation. A description of the enlarged list of various tasks
actually financed is given in Table 5 of the Statistical Appendix. By far the most active
component was the Railways Sector Reform which followed closely the original work



6
program. Nonetheless, some of the programmed tasks were abandoned once the
generalized privatization of railway services made them unnecessary, while new ones were
added when the franchising to private parties of FA and metropolitan transportation
services made it necessary to concentrate efforts on setting up the regulatory framework
for the sector. At the time of approval of PEREL the railways reform was considering
only the privatization of cargo services, but not of the metropolitan passenger services.
Some US$1 million from PEREL was spent by the TU at FA in technical assistance to
support the restructuring and privatization of the metropolitan railways system. Reviews
financed by PEREL were crucial to define the strategic plan, and resulted in perhaps the
largest privatization of railways in such a short period of time in world history. Today, FA
is going through a liquidation process and it is out of the transportation business
altogether. On the other hand, the newly-privatized metropolitan passenger system
transports today over 400 million paying passengers a year, of which about two-thirds are
explained by increased demand. Better quality of service and management of the system
as well as increased demand from the general public have made it possible to have huge
gains in labor productivity. Services continue to be provided at a similar price than before
their concession to the private sector. Furthermore, the public sector has been able to
save hundreds of millions of pesos per year now that most of the railway system is
operated privately.
18.   Two areas on which a significant amount of PEREL resources were used, and
where results have been slow in coming, are: a) the divestiture by the Government of FA's
vast real estate assets; and b) the putting in place of a fully operational authority to
regulate the sector and administer the Government subsidies still going to the Buenos
Aires metropolitan transportation services. In the case of the FA's real estate, the
Government decided to centralize the process of disposing of residual assets originating
from all privatized PEs in a specialized office at MEC. The unexpected complexity and the
magnitude of the task that resulted from the across-the-board privatization of PE's led the
Government to change its original strategy. The divestiture of FA real estate assets, then,
became part of a larger problem which was outside the scope of PEREL. The second
problem is basically of a political nature. In fact, the new Metropolitan Area Transport
Authority (ATAM) was created by decree as part of PERAL conditionality, but
Congress's approval of a Law turned out to be elusive. However, it should be pointed out
that from a practical viewpoint the Technical Unit at FA is currently acting de facto as the
metropolitan railways authority. They have now a technical staff that controls and
supervises more than 4,000 daily train departures in Greater Buenos Aires. Furthermore,
they are playing the role of active counterpart to private concessionaires, which are legally
committed to an investment program in the sector of some US$1,500 million during the
next few years. Of that amount, there are some US$500 million under execution already.
19.   In the case of the PE Reform Framework component, the final figure spent was
US$2 million or about half the amount originally budgeted. But these numbers are
actually deceiving, since most of the new tasks added during implementation and carried
out by the then newly-created Privatization Secretariat and the Finance Secretariat -both
part of MEC-- addressed issues similar to those included in the original work program
under the PE Reform Framework component. What took place was a change in the



7
Government's strategy towards a more direct handling of some of the central and most
sensitive issues, such as strategic PE privatization planning and the fiscal impact and
human resources implications of the privatization drive. This, plus the need of the policy-
making Secretariats at MEC to be fully informed, made it advisable to transfer the
responsibility of implementing some of these tasks closer to them. All told, the original
PE Reform Framework component plus the two new ones executed by the Secretariats at
MEC explain some US$4.9 million or about 21% of the total funds disbursed under
PEREL (computer equipment not included).
20.   The Telecommunications Sector Reform component had two tasks, one of which
was quite challenging: the initiation of full operational efficiency of the CNT, the
regulatory agency of the newly privatized telecommunications sector.  In 1990 the
Government had awarded the telecommunications system to two private consortia to
operate in the southern and northern regions of the country, respectively. At the time
PEREL became effective in June of 1991 there was a clear need for the full
implementation of the new regulatory agency for the sector, since there were many
complex technical issues that could only be settled adequately and equitably by the
issuance of Government regulations. The support to CNT by PEREL started early in
1992 and continued only until the third quarter of 1993, when consulting work on its
medium-term strategic plan was completed. Although significant progress was achieved,
even today CNT has yet to reach full operational efficiency. Important issues such as the
imbalance between the local and- long-distance tariff structure, the norms for
interconnection of providers and some pending issues related to cellular telephony remain
to be resolved by the regulatory agency. Furthermore, CNT still has to put in place an
effective information system regarding the performance of the licensees it is supposed to
supervise.
21.   In this light, PEREL was not able to achieve the main objective of its
telecommunications component. This was certainly not caused by a shortage of funding,
since only US$1.9 million were actually spent of the US$3 million original budgeted for
this task under PEREL. Some participants in the process attribute part of the problem to
the fact that CNT was created by decree and, thus, it lacked the solid legal foundations
that an organic law could have given it. However, at the core the problem is more likely
to have been a continued political predominance by the highest levels of govenment. CNT
also lacked the continuity and presence of a sound and independent management team,
problems which were compounded by poor staffing decisions. This resulted in an inability
of CNT to utilize fully the resources available to it under PEREL, which could have
helped to solve urgent needs of the agency in the accounting, legal, financial and technical
areas. Also unfortunate is the fact that the recurrent management crises in the agency
have resulted in a lack of institutional memory which has prevented it from taking proper
advantage even of the technical assistance earlier received under PEREL.
22.   As already explained, the resources allocated to the Oil and Gas Sector
component were used on two tasks related to the gas industry: the privatization of natural
gas pipelines and the distribution networks of GdE, and the strengthening of the
Government's regulatory capabilities of the industry. Some US$2.7 million was disbursed



8
from PEREL for these two purposes out of the US$3.5 million originally allocated to the
whole component. In the case of the first task, PEREL funding went solely to pay for
legal services required in connection with the privatization of GdE, a process that was
orchestrated, managed and financed mostly by YPF, whose President was also in charge
of GdE. The successful privatization of GdE in ten separate units (two of transmission
and eight dedicated to the distribution of gas) has created basic conditions for a more
competitive and efficient industry and for the sustainability of market prices closer to
international levels, a major concern of the Bank from the outset. The second task
financed under this component also should contribute to the endurance of these gain, and
at the same time protect the mass of consumers from the dangers of oligopolistic practices
on the part of the new private operators in the gas industry. Today ENARGAS is a reality
and the contribution of PEREL and earlier Bank work on the sector greatly helped to
shape the design of the regulatory environment and of the industry as well.
23.   A list of tasks added during implementation was for the benefit of the privatization
of PEs under the Ministry of Defense. Some US$1.2 million of PEREL was spent on six
tasks, which were related to conditionality associated with PERAL II, the second sectoral
adjustment loan targeted at public enterprise reform. The new tasks added to PEREL were
well within the original project objectives, and could be accommodated by simply using
the residual funding budgeted in the original Other Assistance component of the Project.
About 61% of the total disbursed for these new tasks went to pay for the retainer fees of
the investment banks that acted as financial advisors for the Government in the
privatization of two petrochemical plants, Bahia Banca and General Mosconi. Some
PEREL funding also was used to pay for consulting work in connection with the
privatization of SOMISA, a steel producing company. The Bank Loan also covered the
cost for the environmental assessment studies, and the cleaning up plans, for two iron-ore
processing plants (HIPASAM and METEOR) that were closed because of their heavy
environmental liabilities. The rest of the funding (some US$333,700) provided by the
Project to the Defense Complex went to conduct a study on the social impact of public
sector adjustment and privatization on employment, and for the drafting of legislation to
enhance consumer protection and competition in production as part of new antitrust
legislation agreed to be sent to Congress under PERAL II.
24.   With the exception of the tasks just described for the benefit of privatization of
enterprises in the Defense Complex, little else was disbursed from the US$5.3 million
originally budgeted for the Other Assistance component. Some US$4.3 million of the
total had been earmarked for the privatization, restructuring or liquidation of seven PEs,
but at the end only a minor fraction was spent of the agreed budgeted amount. In part this
was due to the availability of funding sources, some of which lent themselves more easily
to support the restructuring/privatization of PEs originally included in PEREL's list of
tasks. Also, the faster than expected privatization process left some of these PEs out of
the reach of PEREL funding, which became effective only later. All seven public
enterprises included in the original Other Assistance component were finally either
privatized or liquidated.



9
25.   One component that merits some special comments developed after the project had
been prepared. This component financed by PEREL allowed MEC to update the
hardware and software required to develop a computerized on-line information system at
this Ministry. While a small amount of PEREL was spent in consulting services to assess
the computing systems and evaluate additional needs at MEC and PEs, the bulk of the
funds went to purchase the computing equipment and the necessary software to operate it.
This equipment was targeted basically at two main programs: a) an electronic central filing
system for documentation maintained at MEC, including that related to residual PEs; and
b) an information system for MEC with on-line connections to a central server. On final
count, roughly US$2.5 million were spent on computing and other related office
equipment for MEC.
26.   Originally PEREL budgeted US$800,000 for the purchasing of goods, mostly
computer equipment estimated to be required by the Buenos Aires metropolitan lines once
they were restructured and for the two regulatory agencies foreseen to be needed for the
railways sector. However, metropolitan transportation services in Buenos Aires were
privatized and little or no equipment was actually purchased with PEREL funds. The
money allocated to the purchase of goods was then directed to the programs being
developed at MEC (all told, some US$2.62 million was spent in goods under the Project).
27.   The first "no-objection" for computing equipment for MEC was approved in
September 1992 for the "Purchase of Computing Systems to Upgrade Management
Information Systems (MS) on Public Enterprises at the Ministry of Economy". This
equipment was sought to complement previously installed equipment in the following
areas of MEC: a) Department of Public Enterprises for Residual PEs in Liquidation; b)
fiscal team following up concessions; and c) to increase capacity of the computer system
of the Finance Secretariat. The justification for this expenditure in the context of the
Project was that the equipment would improve the quantity and quality of the information
available at MEC on the residual PEs and the new concessions to the private sector. After
reviewing a report done by outside consultants on how the new equipment was going to
be integrated into the existing central system at MEC, the Bank authorized disbursements
from PEREL for about US$262,000. All this was within the spirit and the original budget
of the project, which emphasized the development of new management systems as part of
the PE reform framework.
28.   The second request for computing equipment of the Finance Secretariat was
authorized by the Bank in October 1993. Its justification was the need to develop systems
to store and analyze documentation and information on residual entities and concessions
resulting from the privatization of public enterprises. The equipment requested included:
a) a system of personal computers and other equipment required to complete the network
at the Residual Entities Archive, the Fiscal Analysis Group and the Public Enterprises
Directorate; b) camera and video equipment to instruct personnel in the storing and
interpreting of archives for residual entities; and c) a multi-user system (hardware and
software) composed of a data base server, image server and other equipment required to
create an archive of residual entities with easy access and data manipulation capacity.
Actually, the filing system purchased on this occasion had the characteristics only of a



10
pilot system aimed at testing the merits of this technology in the real world of growing
filing problems faced by MEC. Most of the purchased equipment, however, went to
complete the on-line information system that the Information Directorate at MEC had
designed for the whole Ministry.  Following an ICB procurement process, about
US$675,000 was disbursed from the Bank Loan for this purpose. To some extent this
authorization was consistent with the objective of providing the Government with tools to
adequately assess and monitor the fiscal and other implications of the PE reform program.
However, in the case of the information system financed for MEC it is difficult to justify
the expenditure solely on the basis of the project objectives as stated in the Loan
Agreement. Independently of the merits of the system installed, which in any event
appears to be quite successful and very cost-effective, the Bank probably would have been
better served by trying to broaden the objectives of the Project first to include among them
the general improvement in the effectiveness and productivity of MEC. As it stands, a
substantial portion of the equipment purchased by MEC with PEREL funding only
partially and indirectly contributed to the achievement of the project objectives.
29.   Then came a third and larger request for computing equipment from the Finance
Secretariat. Since there were no longer any funds available for the purchase of goods,
first the borrower sought a modification of Schedule 1 of the Loan Agreement whereby
the Bank authorized in May 1994 an increase to US$2.67 million in the amount of the
Bank Loan that could be spent on goods. This reallocation of funds was accomplished by
a reduction in the allocation for "Consultants' services and training" and by the
reallocation of the unspent remainder in the "Refunding of PPF" category.  These
amendments were cleared with LEGLA and LOAEL.
30.   Initially the Bank was reluctant to authorize this last equipment order, save for a
few items that were needed to back-up equipment procured earlier under PEREL. Most
of the items, however, were not seen as having a clear relationship with the original
objectives of the Project, so further justification was requested from MEC prior to any
authorization. The purpose of the new equipment as stated by the Finance Secretariat was
to make a full implementation of the "Document Management System Based on the
Processing of Images". Since the previously purchased equipment was categorized only
as a "pilot program," the new equipment was needed to fully complete the computerized
filing system. Apparently, the Secretariat felt that by having been authorized to procure
the equipment for the "pilot program" they were justified to seek an authorization to
complete the filing system. Finally, after some further explanation by MEC on the purpose
behind the new equipment they wanted to acquire, in July 1994 the Bank gave its "no-
objection" to a US$1.16 million disbursement from PEREL for this purpose.
31.   The new electronic filling system has allowed MEC to establish a Document
Management Center, where electronic files are being kept of documentation and data
being generated by residual PEs and of information on assets and liabilities left as remnants
in public hands following the privatization of PEs. While this storing activity is within the
boundaries of the project objectives, it remains to be seen whether the chosen solution for
the storing system will end up being cost-effective vis-a-vis other systems, such as, for
example, the much cheaper and better known technique of micro-fiche. However,



11
preliminary indications are that the new filing system is succeeding in its stated goals. It
should be kept in mind that the workload for the filing team is quite considerable since all
kinds of real estate, goods and even large numbers of employees have been left in the
hands of the Central Government as a by-product of the privatization process. Also, the
Government is facing thousands of legal claims in court and it is constantly being
requested to review and produce new legal documentation. All told, although much
progress has been made on the filing and recording processes as well as in account
keeping, it appears that significant work remains to be done as most of the documentation
generated prior to the installation of the equipment purchased under PEREL, which is
substantial, remains to be recorded in the new electronic archive.
32.   In summary, had it not been for the some of the issues raised in connection with
the computing equipment purchased by MEC, the implementation record on balance could
have been described as highly satisfactory.  From the perspective of the borrower,
although there were some delays in getting the project moving, in the end the technical
assistance provided by PEREL was quite effective in supporting a broader and deeper
privatization program  than the one that originally seemed possible.   Thus, the
implementation record shows that the objectives of the project were met and that most of
them were achieved on time. The actual amount disbursed was very close to the total
available, although the composition by category of expenditure was somewhat different
from the original budget of the Project. More detailed information on this and on the
breakdown of consulting services is provided by the Table below:



12
PEREL: Expenditures by Category
(US$ thousand)
Amount Allocated in
Schedule 1 of Loan     Actual Amount
Category                 Agreement             Disbursed
I. Consultants' services              450.00             19.780.46
and training (excl. PPF)
Of which, incl. PPF:                                  20,349.49
Consulting firms                                   16,199.94
Individual consultants                             3,089.79
- Domestic                                        2,855.05
- Foreign                                           234.74
Travel expenses                                      396.68
Training                                              9.77
Other                                                653.31
II. Goods (excl. PPF)                 800.00              2.623.25
III. Refunding of PPF                 750.00               581.66
Of which:
Consultants' services
and training                                  569.03
Goods                                                 12.63
TOTAL                            23,000.00             22,985. 37
Source: Coordinating Unit at MEC.
Includes fees of procurement agent and external auditors.
33.   Bank Performance: Independently of the Bank performance in the design and
execution of PEREL, this was a companion operation to PERAL and in this respect
PEREL was dependent on the success of the former. In fact, a successful PERAL was a
pre-condition to carry out PEREL. PEREL could become effective only once conditions
precedent for the effectiveness of PERAL were met. Judged from a historical perspective,
a sectoral adjustment operation supporting PE privatization and restructuring in Argentina
was highly risky for the Bank. This had been tried in the recent past and the effort had
been unsuccessful. Besides, there was little experience in Argentina when it came to the
privatization of public enterprises. There was, then, a double risk for PEREL, that of
PERAL plus its own intrinsic risks as a technical assistance operation. The latter also
made the Project quite risky, if seen in the light of the Bank's worldwide experience with
technical assistance loans.



13
34.   The fact that the Government was able to move ahead forcefully with its program
of PE reform supported by PERAL was no doubt a great plus towards the success of
PEREL. This was sort of a pre-condition, but gave no assurances on the success of this
operation. PEREL was a project with a long list of tasks and many of them were seen as
crucial for the achievement of the specific goals set out by the Government in the area of
privatization and PE reform. The fact that most of the components of PEREL succeeded
in achieving their goals and that the project was flexible enough to adapt to changing
circumstances and effectively support the process of PE reform is reason enough to
qualify the Bank performance as satisfactory. Furthermore, it could be said that the
successful outcome of PERAL, particularly in connection with the restructuring and
privatization of the railways sector, also relied on the effective support provided by
PEREL.
35.   As in the case of PERAL, the identification of PEREL benefited greatly from the
large amount of sector work done by the Bank and associated consultants in years prior to
the preparation of the Project.  Identification and project preparation of the two
companion operations was carried out simultaneously until quite late in the preparation
stage, when the Bank decided in favor of having two separate operations.  The
identification work done by the Bank proved valuable for the Government in its efforts to
define the specific goals and details of its PE reform program. Also, the Bank work made
it much easier for the Government to structure the details of the technical assistance
program  required to facilitate the implementation of the PE reform.  From  this
perspective, the identification work done by the Bank in connection with PEREL was
highly satisfactory.
36.   Project preparation was financially supported by the Bank through a Project
Preparation Facility. The Bank was also instrumental in securing major financing needed
for the extensive preparatory work and the meeting of pre-conditions associated with
PERAL. Once the main components of the Project had been identified, the Bank
concentrated on defining a detailed list of tasks. Eventually, many of them were singled
out for inclusion in Schedule 5 of the Loan Agreement, which included an Implementation
Program with specific start and completion dates for each task. From today's perspective,
this effort on the part of the Bank during project preparation was mostly wasted since this
Implementation Program was bound to become in touch with the realities and dynamics of
the privatization process soon after the Project started to be implemented. Thus, the Bank
authorized appropriate changes during project implementation. Perhaps a more fruitful
effort during project preparation by the Bank would have been to concentrate on an
intermediate stage, that of translating the main Project objectives into a clearer and more
detailed list of goals to be achieved. This could have been reinforced with the definition of
a flexible work plan, which included only the principal tasks identified plus a set of
procedures for further task selection. Other specific tasks, then, could have been agreed
with the borrower during implementation and added to the work program as needed.
Although the approach taken at the time of preparation is understandable from the
perspective of early experience with privatization in Argentina, this certainly caused the
implementation process to lose clarity and the supervision work to become more difficult
to follow.



14
37.   On the other hand, project implementation was greatly facilitated by the decision
of the Bank to insist on putting in place from the beginning a well thought out
administrative structure for project execution. This was a merit of the Bank's project
preparation process.  Later on, reality showed that a great amount of day-to-day
supervision and administrative work was required to move the Project forward. Bank
staff had to process a constant flow of funding requests, inquiries and requests for changes
in the task list. Also, the Project demanded a great deal of coordination with Task
Managers of other projects contributing to the public sector reform. Fortunately, the
Project was able to count on continuity of supervision in the first couple of years, an
advantage that was lost towards the end when a succession of different Tasks Managers
took over PEREL. However, by that time the Project had developed its own momentum
and, thanks to the execution capabilities on the borrower's side, was able to sail through
satisfactorily.
38.   There were, however, two areas in which Bank decision-making should have been
more forcefully applied. One of them had to do with the loan size. The approved loan
amount of US$23 million was quite in line with the financing requirements of the original
list of project components. However, by 1994 and with the Closing Date approaching
fast, it appeared that there were going to be some non-committed funds left unused. The
Bank, rather than canceling these redundant funds, decided to accept the request of the
borrower and allowed that they be used to carry out tasks marginally related to the
original objectives of PEREL.
39.   A second point has to do with the accounting of counterpart financing. As with all
Bank loans, a detailed budget was included in the President's Report with estimates of
counterpart funds and man-months that were expected to be required to execute each task
to be financed. Today only casual information exists on the matter, since reliable records
on counterpart contributions were not maintained by the Government and the Bank never
provided reminders. In a way this is regrettable since such contributions in some cases
were substantial, for example in the case of the privatization of the gas industry, with YPF
alone financing from its own resources over US$15 million in transaction costs associated
with the restructuring of GdE and the sale of the resulting companies.
40.   Borrower Performance: One of the merits of the Menem Administration at the
time of project preparation was to have had an economic team not only willing to take
strong measures to alleviate the public sector crisis but to be ready to move forcefully and
decisively ahead once a political decision was made. This was the case with the PE reform
program, which was prepared drawing heavily on the wealth of sectoral diagnostic and
prescriptive information accumulated by the Bank since the days of the Alfonsin
Administration. Also, there was an unusual degree of continuity in the Government's
economic team which carried out the Project, which certainly helped with the preparation
and implementation of PEREL. Furthermore, it was very useful that the Director and
Deputy Director of the Project Coordinating Unit were involved since the initial stages of
the Project.



15
41.   Implementation of PEREL started with a few months' delay. The Coordinating
Unit was established in April 1991 rather than by February 1991. Also, the procurement
agent was in place later than agreed, so the project got off to a real start only in mid-
1991. Once the project became operational, however, the Coordinating Unit at MEC and
the Technical Units in the Executing Agencies soon started to show the advantages of the
framework chosen for administering project implementation. As already pointed out, their
performance was highly satisfactory.
42.   In the course of its day-to-day administration of the Project, the Coordinating Unit
had to negotiate: a) 55 contracts with consulting firms, with an average contract value of
some US$276,100; and b) 68 contracts with individual consultants (62 hired locally and
the rest abroad), with an average value of some US$33,000. The Coordinating Unit itself
spent in salaries, equipment and general office expenditures a total of some US$1.31
million (Unit figures), or about 5.7% of the Bank Loan, during the almost five years of
coordinating and administering the technical assistance program financed by PEREL.
During that period the Coordinating Unit also had responsibility for the execution of two
different Japanese grants plus a long list of other tasks related to other Bank operations.
Today the Coordinating Unit is still fully operational and continues, under the same
Deputy Director, to provide its support to other Bank projects.
43.   There were some legal covenants in the Loan Agreement that imposed some
specific responsibility on the borrower during project implementation. A list of them, with
their degree of fulfillment and some comments, is included in Table 7 of the Statistical
Annex. All seven of these covenants were fulfilled by the borrower, although some with
delays and in two cases with modifications agreed with the Bank. The borrower through
the Coordinating Unit regularly submitted to the Bank the agreed set of progress and
audited financial reports (although the latter were presented consistently late to the Bank).
The only problem worth mentioning was the qualified statement of the external auditors in
connection with the 1991 financial statements of the Project, which was brought about by
the denial of the procurement agent to allow them access to its accounting records for that
year. This was corrected for the following years.
44.   On the broader implementation issues perhaps the most striking feature is the much
slower than anticipated process of institutional building in connection with the regulatory
entities that were supported by PEREL. The five-year time horizon of the Project turned
out clearly not long enough for the regulatory bodies in the important telecommunications
and urban transport industries to be fully operational. This can be only partially blamed on
project implementation ineffectiveness since most of the technical work required to
establish these regulatory agencies and make them operational, and for which PEREL
provided support, was accomplished largely as planned. Rather, the difficulties had a
great deal more to do with the delaying impact of political and legal turmoil that
developed among competing pressure groups following the privatization of these two
sectors. Although far from justifying the Argentine case, the experience in other places of
the world shows that the process of building new regulatory institutions is one of the most
difficult to accomplish, particularly when there is no tradition and a tight schedule to
follow, as it was the case for these two regulatory agencies.



16
D.    Assessment of Outcome and Key Lessons Learned
45.   The overall assessment of the outcome of the Project is satisfactory, particularly
because the broader project objectives were by and large achieved and can be considered
sustainable because privatizations are unlikely to be reversed anytime soon. This was a
high risk project that required on the part of the borrower a great deal of political
commitment for an ambitious and difficult public enterprise reform program. By its very
nature the PE privatization process was a one time big event, for which it is impossible to
find enough experience. Thus, this was a demanding project both from the perspective of
its goals as well as its implementation. It benefitted also from a joint and well-coordinated
effort with the Bank PERAL and PEREL teams, plus a high degree of responsiveness on
the part of the Bank to accommodate the Project to the changes that took place in the
borrower's circumstances and priorities during the Project implementation. Had the Bank
staff not shown flexibility during implementation, the Project could very well have failed in
providing support to the impressive transformation of the Argentine economy brought
about by the profound changes in its PE sector.
46.   One general lesson of this technical assistance project is that it pays to concentrate
during project preparation on the design of a sound administrative structure for this type
of project. The experience of PEREL is a good one in this respect. However, more
thought should be given in the future to the high transactions costs faced by the borrower
in the delivery of the technical assistance to the final user. The loan size for this type of
operations is normally quite small by Bank standards, so the administrative process faced
by the borrower can easily absorb a high proportion of the funds committed by the Bank.
In the case of Argentina the problem is aggravated because of difficulties to solve the issue
of procurement satisfactorily. A review of more cost-effective procurement formulas in
Argentina is underway following the recent completion of the country procurement
assessment. Moreover, another related lesson of PEREL is that a special effort should be
made during project preparation to estimate the direct costs of administering the technical
assistance by the borrower, whether the associated Bank loan finances them or not. In the
case of PEREL such evaluation was only partially done and then, when the issue of the
cost of the procurement agent and the external auditors arose, funds had to be reallocated
from other components of the Project because other sources of funding could not be
found.
47.   The implementation of most technical assistance projects requires the hiring of
consulting services. PEREL was not different in this respect since 86% of the disbursed
funds went to pay for such services. The experience of PEREL was quite rich since there
was a wide spectrum of firms and individuals, foreign and nationals, hired to provide these
services. Again, the existence of an effective Coordinating Unit was important. Their
experience with the Project was that consulting firms are generally quite reliable and
efficient but that their services have a unitary cost (consultant/month) considerably higher
than that of individual consultants. These, on the other hand, showed a much higher
variance in terms of their reliability and quality of work. Thus, considerably more time
and effort was spent on their selection. The contracting process for individual consultants
also is more time-consuming simply because a larger number of contracts is needed to



17
cover any given task. In the case of PEREL the average contract signed with a consulting
firm was over eight times the size of that entered into with the average individual
consultant. So far the story is not different from that of the broader Bank experience, and
that is why the Bank often prefers that borrowers hire consulting firms. Supervision also
is facilitated with this strategy. It should be highlighted, however, that in the case of
PEREL there was a satisfactory experience with individual consultants in the case of FA,
particularly when consulting services were required for prolonged periods of time. It
would have been very expensive to have had the same steady flow of technical support
had consulting firms been hired to do the job. This was a very cost-effective solution for
FA (estimated at I to 4 in favor of individual consultants by the Coordinating Unit). This
PE had a limnited amount of resources to do a huge privatization job, so the point was
quite relevant. Indeed, the privatization of railway services does appear to have been on
the low side when compared with the privatization of other PEs supported by PEREL.
However, it should be kept in mind that the management team at the Technical Unit of FA
was unusually able, which facilitated the task of coordinating a large contingent of
individual consultants, perhaps making the experience hard to replicate under more
standard circumstances.
48.   In the initial stages of identification of PEREL the Government had requested
considerably more funds that the amount finally approved by the Board. As a general rule,
there is a tendency by borrowers to overestimate their capacity to absorb technical
assistance. The lesson of PEREL is that even in the context of a successful adjustment
program and a sound project management team such capacity is limited. In addition, once
the loan amount is set the borrower does tend to see it as a disbursement goal rather than
as a ceiling. The Bank staff, on the other hand, finds it difficult to say no to authorization
requests coming from good executing agencies. Authorization of redundant funds for
tasks marginally related to the objectives easily becomes a way to reward good
performance. Although it is difficult to say what the rule should be, a special effort should
be made during the preparation stage of a technical assistance operation to assess the
absorptive capacity of the executing agencies, ideally based on some parameters derived
from the Bank's experience. Also, there should be an agreed timetable with the borrower,
to be coordinated with the supervision schedule, to exchange views over the projected
commitment profile and the actions that should follow if the size of the loan, the closing
date or both merit a revision.
49.   Finally, there is one lesson that has to do more with PERAL.  A technical
assistance operation, however effective, cannot by itself achieve results in matters that
require decisive political action or complex decisions. This is clearly a job more attuned to
adjustment operations. The incomplete jobs in the case of the regulatory agencies for the
telecommunications and the urban transport sectors provide a good example. In both
cases it would have been productive if the sectoral adjustment program could have
continued beyond the privatization of ENTel and FA and included conditionality
associated with further operational progress of the regulatory entities. The technical
aspects of regulation for these two sectors were reasonably covered by PEREL, and it
would have been ideal to rely on, say, an additional tranche of PERAL to tie down solid
progress on the regulatory front of the PE reform.



18
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ARGENTINA
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE REFORM EXECUTION LOAN (PEREL)
(LOAN 3292-AR)
H. STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1:  Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of objectives    Substantial        Partial          Negligible      Not applicable
Macro policies                                                                           '4
Sector policies                    l
Financial objectives                                                                      '
Institutional development                             4
Physical objectives                                                                      '4
Poverty reduction                                                                         '4
Gender issues                                                                             '4
Other social objectives                               l
Environmental objectives            i
Public sector management            l
Private sector developmet           4
Other (specify)
B. Proiect sustainability        Likel      |    Unlikely           Uncertain
C. Bank performance              Highly          Satisfactory        Deficient
satisfactory
Identification                     '4
Preparation assistance                               '4
Appraisal                                             4
Supervision                                           4



19
D. Borrower performance        Highly          Satisfactory      Deficient
satisfactory
Preparation                                        l
Implementation                    4
Covenant compliance                                4
E. Assesment of outcome         Highly         Satisfactory    Unsatisfactory      Highly
satisfactory                                      unsatisfactory
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan                     Purpose            Amount       Year of       Status
(US$ million)  Approval    (04/30/96)
1. Public Enterprise Reform I &    Privatization of public  300        1991     Disbursed
II (Lns. 3291 and 3556)         enterprises                300          1993    Disbursed
2. Gas Utilization and TA (Ln   Rehabilitation of the      180          1985    Disbursed
2592)                           Gas Sector
3. Public Sector Reform I       Fiscal revenues and       325          1991    Disbursed
(Ln 3394)                   expenditures, and
l                               BCRA
4. T.A. Public Sector Reform   Improvement of public       23           1991    Undisbursed
(Ln 3362)                   sector performance                               $ .OM



20
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle      Date Planned         Actual Date/or
Duration
Identification (Initial Executive                  September 23, 1987
Project Summary)
Preparation                                        3 years, intially part
of PERAL
Appraisal                                          June 1990
Negotiations                                       December 10 -14,
1990
Board Presentation            October 1990         February 12, 1991
Signing                                            April 8, 1991
Effectiveness                 February 1991        June 21, 1991
Loan Closing                  June 30, 1995        December 31, 1995
Table 4: Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ million)
FY91      FY92      FY93       FY94    FY95   FY96
Appraisal estimate        1.9       7.3       12.8       18.8     23.0      0
Actual                     0        4.6       10.5      21.0      22.3    23.0
Actual as % of estimate   0%       63%        82%       118%      97%     100%
Date of final disbursement: December 26, 1995



21
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
I. Key Implementation Indicators in                Estimated                                            Actual
President's Report
Part A: PE Reform Framework
A. 1 Establish Project Coordinating Unit in          February 1991                                        April 1991
MEC
A.2 (a) Present strategic plans and      *Strategic plans and performance evaluation  Although work was initiated, it was discontinued when PEs were
perfonnance evaluation systems for 4 PEs  systems for 4 PEs: Fourth Quarter 1991  privatized, following a deepening in the Government's privatization drive
(YPF, AyEE, Hidronor and the Buenos Aires Metropolitan Railways).
*Semiannual reports: Second and Fourth
Quarter 1992
*Present strategic plans/performance
evaluation systems for the PEs included in
TOR: Second Quarter 1993
(b) Upgrade SIGEP's Management          *Diagnostic of existing MIS: Third Quarter  This component was not implemented. The Government decided to put in
Information System (MIS)                 1991                                   place a new auditing system for PEs. For this purpose, a law was passed
creating the new system and dissolving SIGEP.
*Programi for upgrading MIS: First Quarter
1992
*Report on accomplishment of MIS
upgrading: Second Quarter 1992_
A.3 (a) Development of labor management    *Preliminary assessment of excess labor and  The preliminary assessment was done on time. Consultants were hired
strategy for PEs                        retirement proposals for FA, YPF and GdE:  using funding from PEREL-associated PPF. However, in part due to
December 1990                          problems with the preliminary assessment done by consultants, the
Government decided that each PE had to complete the task of assessing
*Report completed: Second Quarter 1991    work force redundancies by itself. In the case of FA, it had the support of
its Technical Unit financed by PEREL.
(b) Extend the life of Labor Task Force in  *Initl report reflecting accomplishments of This task force was discontinued by the Govermment, following the
MEC                                     task under TOR for Loan 2712-AR: First    acceleration in the privatization drive mentioned above. No funding from
Quarter 1991                           PEREL was used for this purpose.
*Final report: Second Quarter 1991



22
I. Key Implementation Indicators in                Estimated                                             Actual
President's Report
(c) Renegotiation of company-specific    *Mid-term report on advances in         Consiutants hired by the Government, and paid by PEREL, prepared
collective labor agreements and monitoring of  negotiations: Third Quarter 1991  monthly progress reports on the subject. There was a change in strategy,
retirement programs                      *Quarterly reports on negotiations based on   however, since this component was implemented directly by the Central
agreed format                          Government, which relied on support from the PEs, their TUs and
*Final report on negotiations according to    PEREL's central Coordinating Unit.
TOR: First Quarter 1992
A.4 Strengthening the Government's       *Action plan addressing main negative   Consulting services financed under PEREL started in July 1992 and ended
capabilities to monitor and reduce adverse  environmental effects in the hydrocarbon and in Fourth Quarter 1993. In part based on conclusions of studies done, the
environmental effects of activities of public and transport sectors: First Quarter 1992  Government decided to address environmental issues through a more
private enterprises, particularly in the                                         comprehensive project, financed partially by an IDB loan and which is
hydrocarbon and transport sectors        *Recommendations for institutional set-up    currently under way, targeted at solving identified environmental issues
and legislation: First Quarter 1993    and problems.
Part B: Telecommunications Sector Reform
B. I Sale of ENTel to qualified private  *Definition of framework for privatization of Privatization of ENTel was on target. PEREL financed a portion of the
operators                                ENTel, issuing of bidding documents and    retainer's fees paid to the Financial Agent for the Govermnent during the
actual transfer to winning bidders: November privatization process. The bulk of this cost was covered under the PPF of
1990                                   PERAL, the adjustment loan for which PEREL provided the technical
assistance support.
B.2 Establishment of CNT followed by full    *Presentation of start-up and implementation Consulting work to support the establishment of the CNT started in First
operational efficiency                   program: Second Quarter 1991            Quarter 1992. Support under PEREL continued until Third Quarter 1993,
when consulting work on the medium-term strategic plan was completed.
*Semi-annual reports reflecting progress  CNT is now established. However, although significant progress has been
made and future steps                  achieved, CNT has yet to reach full operational efficiency.
Part C: Railwavs Sector Reform
C. I Establishment of a Technical Unit in FA    *Quarterly reports and semiannual  Reporting requirements were satisfactorily met. The Technical Unit
to manage the sector restructuring program  supervision review missions          started its work in Second Quarter 1991 and continued to be financed by
PEREL until Second Quarter 1995. This Unit was instrumental in the
successful transfer to the private sector of activities previously carried out
by FA.



23
I. Key Implementation Indicators in                   Estimated                                              Actual
President's Report
C.2 Analysis and refinement of future cargo    *Bidding documents for Roca Line: Fourth   Bidding documents for both lines were prepared within schedule. The
concession options and identification of likely   Quarter 1991                      cargo concession for the Roca Line was granted to a private company in
networks and privatization problems                                                 1992. However, in the case of the Belgrano Line, after two attempts and in
*Bidding documents for Belgrano Line:    absence of suitable offers by private companies, it remains in public hands,
Second Quarter 1992                      although as a separate state-owned corporation, independent of FA.
C.3 Analysis of options to restructure inter-    *Cost study of current inter-urban passenger  a) Cost studies were completed in July 1992. That month the Government
urban passenger services                   operations and definition of alternative  made the decision to abandon all interurban passenger services (Decree
operating techniques and prototype contract  #1168), except for the Buenos Aires-Mar del Plata Line.
agreements to grant concessions to private
operators: Second Quarter 1991
*Action Plan for franchising the Buenos  b) Technical information necessary to franchise the BA-Mar del Plata Line
Aires-Mar del Plata Line: Second Quarter    was ready by the Second Quarter 1992. Since then this franchise has been
1991                                    taken over by the Province of Buenos Aires.
C.4 Identification of other privatizable FA  *Identification of possible concessions: First  No funding from PEREL was used for this purpose. FA does not operate
activities and facilities and development of  Quarter 1992                          rail services any longer, although still has some assets related to the
privatization options                                                               operation of the business, such as spare parts, rolling stock (mostly convoys
*Bidding documents for at least one      for passenger services), train yards, etc., which it expects to dispose of
concession each quarter beginning Third  gradually over time.
Quarter 1992
C.5 Identification of FA rolling stock for  *Definition of concessionable rolling stock:   No funding from PEREL was used for this purpose. The Government
possible concession and development of     First Quarter 1992                       decided to grant concessions that included both the right to use the tracks
parameters to be used for implementation   *Financial analysis: Second Quarter 1992    and the existing rolling stock.
*Prototype agreement: Third Quarter 1992
C.6 Establishment of an excess asset       *Adoption of guidelines for the excess asset  Due to the unexpected complexity and magnitude of the task that resulted
management unit in FA and identification of   management function: Fourth Quarter 1991  from the across-the-board massive privatization of PEs, the Government
those excess assets that are to be released                                         decided to carry out the sale of all excess Government assets through a
during FA restructuring                    *Semi-annual progress reports starting First  specialized office at the MEC. However, in the case of FA, there were two
Quarter 1992                             failed attempts to transfer to the private sector the management of FA real
estate properties (4Q92 and 4Q93).
C.7 Establishment of a railway employee    *Initiate retirement plan: January 1991  Although the unit was never created, the number of railway employees
management unit within FA and development                                           was reduced sharply, surpassing by a wide margin initial projections for job
of procedures to handle excess personnel   *Semi-annual progress reports starting Third  reductions. Separations were financed indirectly and partially with PERAL
l ________________________________________    Quarter  1991                         resources.



24
I. Key Implementation Indicators in                 Estimated                                            Actual
President's Report
C.8 Restructuring of FA's metropolitan   *Progress report: First Quarter 1992   In March 1991, the Government created FEMESA, a separate corporation,
passenger railway services, including the                                        administratively and operationally independent from FA, and in charge of
establshment of an independent suburban rail  *Final report: Third Quarter 1992  operations of all metropolitan rail services, including the subway system.
passenger company responsible for aUl suburban                                   Later, the Government went several steps further and transferred in
services                                                                         concession to the private sector the operafion of the metropoUtan railway
lines and the subway of Buenos Aires.
C.9 Development of accounting and insurance  *Final report by Third Quarter 1991  These tasks were not carried out since the privatization of all railway
systems for the new railway organization                                         serces made the development of the new systems unnecessary. The only
tasks in this regard financed by PEREL were the development of the
administrative and accointing systems of the newly created FEMESA.
Related consulting services started in August 1991 and ended in December
1991.
C. 10 Development of new safety and operating *Final report by Fourth Quarter 1991  These tasks were carried with some modifications. The franchising to
rules and practices for railway activities                                       third parties of all rail services provided by FA made it preferable to
concentrate efforts on setting up the regulatory framework for the newly
privatized railway sector. Resources from PEREL were used for that
purpose (including the development of safety and operating practices
incorporated into the bidding documents used for franchising FA
facilities).
C. 11 (a) Establishment of a national railway   *Proposals for new organizational structures: This condition was satisfactorily met (as prescribed in the Loan Agreement
authority to ensure fair competition and  December 1991                          for PERAL) when the Government issued Decree # 2339 in December
efficient services                                                               1992. However, the main contribution of PEREL was in the financing of
*New Authority operating: Fourth Quarter   consulting services, carried out between February 1993 and April 1994,
1992                                   that resulted in the definition of the organizational structure, job
descriptions, strategic plans and staffing of the newly created Authority as
weU as the training of its staff.
(b) Establishment of a Buenos Aires passenger *Proposals for the new organizational  This condition was satisfactorily met when the Government established the
authority to regulate/fund passenger services   structure: March 1992            metropolitan railway authority by Decree #1143, which included the duties
within Buenos Aires                                                              and powers prescribed in PERAL for such authority. A law to create a new
*New authority operating: Fourth Quarter   inter-jurisdictional entity was not passed, and has been withdrawn.
1992                                   Currently, the formal responsibility to regulate the sector is in the hands of
the Transport Secretariat at the MEC. However, in the interim and prior to
the enactment of the law, the Technical Unit at the FA originally financed
by and created to implement PEREL, has been acting de facto as the
metropolitan railways authority.



25
1. Key Implementation Indicators in               Estimated                                            Actual
President's Report
Part D: Oil and Gas Sector Reform
D. I Development of a strategic plan for the    *Strategic plan presented: March 30, 1992   As with other project activities originally agreed on for the Oil sub-sector,
new YPF                                                                        this specific task was not financed with resources from PEREL, so it was
not supervised under PEREL. Activities related to the privatization of YPF
were financed directly by YPF's own cash flow and funds from other Bank
loans.
D.2 Implementation of new business units for  *Proposal for organizing the new business   For the reasons explained above in point D. 1, this task was not financed
YPF                                     units: Second Quarter 1992             with resources from PEREL
* Detailed proposals for management
processes and systems for each unit: Fourth
Quarter 1992
D.3 Divestiture of selected YPF operations  *Every six months starting Fourth Quarter   For the reasons explained above in point D. 1, this task was not financed
1991 significant proposals for        with resources from PEREL
privatization/joint ventures are to be
presented in accordance with conditions
under PERAL
D4 Assistance to the Government and GdE in  *Privatization proposals in agreement with   The privatization effort in the gas industry went much further than the
the privatization of natural gas pipelines and   conditions under PERAL: Fourth Quarter    agreements reached in the context of PERAL. By the end of 1992, the
distribution networks                   1991                                   entire system operated by GdE was in private hands. PEREL resources
were targeted on the financing of the legal advice required for the
*Additional proposals developed by Second  implementation of the privatization of GdE. The cost of other consulting
and Fourth Quarters 1992              work related to the privatization of this PE was covered directly by YPF.
D.5 Strengthening of the Government's   *Proposal of regulations: Third Quarter 1991 The efforts of the Government in connection with this component were
regulatory capabilities in the hydrocarbon                                    concentrated on the development of its regulatory capabilities of the newly
sector                                  *Evaluation of Government capabilities to   privatized gas industry. PEREL resources were used to finance about one-
regulate the sector: Fourth Quarter 1992  third of the consulting work that provided the specific recommendations on
the implementation of ENARGAS. The consulting services financed by
PEREL covered the period May-August 1992 and ENARGAS officially
started functioning as the regulatory entity of the gas industry in April
1993.



26
IL  New Implementation Indicators Added                Estimated                                            Actual
during Project Execution
Part E: Privatization of PEs under the                                           Although this component was not part of the original conception of
Ministry of Defense                                                              PEREL, a portion of this loan was reserved for "Other assistance" to
provide support for future privatizations, such as the ones carried out in
the Defense Complex . The tasks listed below were agreed upon in the
context of the PERAL II, which supported additional privatization of
PEs by the Government. Since PERAL II did not include a technical
assistance component, funds were secured for this purpose from the
Japanese Government and the Bank's existing PEREL.
E. I Drafting of Antitrust Law                                                   PEREL financed consulting services to support Government efforts to
improve legislation geared to enhance competition in production and
consumer protection. In particular, it provided support for the
preparation of Antitrust legislation that the Goverrnent was required to
send to Congress as part of the conditionality of PERAL II.
E.2 Social impact of public reforms on labor                                     PEREL provided the funding to conduct a study on the social impact of
the public sector adjustment and privatization on employment.
Companies in the Defense Complex, many of them located in isolated
surroundings were more vulnerable to a lack of employment alternatives.
E.3 Envirornmental control study                                                 Preliminary environmental assessments were done for two PEs within
the Defense portfolio (the iron ore-processing plants HIPASAM and
METEOR). These facilities were to be closed down because of their
economic and financial non-viability. Also, the two sites, particularly
METEOR, were known to be heavily polluted. The environmental
assessments done showed how bad the problem was at the two sites and
how the clean-up could be accomplished.
E.4 Privatization of Petroquimica Bahia                                          Funds from PEREL were used to pay the retainer fees of the investment
Blanca                                                                           bank selected as Financial Agent for the Government in the
implementation of the privatization of this state-owned company.
E. 5 Privatization of Petroquimica General                                       Funds from PEREL were used to pay the retainer fees of the investment
Moscoso                                                                          bank selected as Financial Agent for the Government in the
implementation of the privatization of this state-owned company.



27
IL. New Implementation Indicators Added                Estimated                r                           Actual
dunng Project Execution
E.6 Restructuring /Privatization of SOMISA                                       PEREL funding was used to cover the fees of the management
consulting group in charge of restructuring of this steel-producing
company prior to its privatization. The original idea of financing the
retainer fees of the Financial Agent in the sale of SOMISA was
abandoned because the contractual arrangements with the chosen
investment bank were finalized prior to the request for PEREL funding.
Part F: Pnvatization Secretarat at MEC                                           The Privatization Secretariat did not exist at the time of the negotiation
of PEREL, but when it was created it took on several of the
responsibilities related to the implementation of the privatization
program for PEs. This was the main objective of the PE Reform
Framework component (Part A above). PEREL financed a variety of
consulting services that gave the Secretariat the ability to plan,
coordinate and follow up the process of implementation of the program
of privatization of PEs. The Finance Secretariat at MEC was the other
leading office in the implementation of this component.
F. I Strategic Planning group                                                    The work done allowed the Secretariat to carry out several different
tasks, including the assessment of alternative strategic privatization
options, the evaluation of procedures for the selection of bidders and
analysis of sale-related contracts, and the establishment of a system to
manage the Government minority interests in privatized companies.
F.2 Seminars                                                                     There were four seminars/meetings on different privatization issues,
mostly related to FA's concession program, financed by PEREL.
Part G: Finance Secretariat at MEC                                               Given the acceleration in the privatization process, the Government
decided to hire outside consulting services in order to carry out key
related tasks thoroughly and in a timely manner. PEREL funding was
used for this purpose. The participation of this Secretariat in the
implementation of the privatization drive was crucial, particularly since
it was in charge of assessing and monitoring the fiscal implications of
the program and, through the Project Coordinating Unit, was in charge
of the day-to-day business of implementing PEREL.



28
ILL New Implementation Indicators Added                   Estimated                                              Actual
during Project Execution
G. 1 Budgeting and Monitoring Group                                                  Consultants financed by PEREL carried out tasks such as: (i) design,
development and implementation of financial and accounting
information systemns, budgeting and other management needs related to
residual assets and liabilities left in Government hands after
privatization of the core business of PEs; (ii) short and medium-term
projections for PEs in the process of being privatized and of residual
companies; and (iii) monitoring of staff reductions in PEs and of other
key financial and economic variables to keep Government decision-
makers informed on privatization issues.
G.2 Assessment of fiscal impact of sale of PEs                                       Consulting services were provided to: (i) estimate the net worth of PEs
in the process of being privatized, (ii) project the evolution of prices of
goods and services of PEs once they are under private control, and (iii)
assess the fiscal impact of each privatization.
G.3 Sale of disposable public fixed assets                                           Consulting services were retained to: (i) identify disposable fixed assets
in the hands of PEs and the Government, (ii) define norms and
regulations to assess the value of the goods, (iii) set the legal procedures
to sell assets, (iv) establish procedures to supervise the actual sales, and
(v) coordinate the work of real estate consortia.
Part H: Computine systems for MEC                                                    PEREL provided funding to update the hardware and software required
by the new information system developed by the MEC. In addition, a
small amount of related consulting services was financed by PEREL.
H. 1 Assessment of computing systems                                                 Consulting services were retained with PEREL funding to: (i) assess the
available in MEC and PEs                                                             state of the computing realities in PEs and in MEC, (ii) make proposals
to establish an Information Unit in MEC, and (iii) recommend a single
set of norms in order to facilitate interconnections and standardize
procedures in MEC and in PEs.
H.2 Procurement of computing equipment and                                           The equipment purchased with PEREL funding was targeted basically to
software for MEC                                                                     two main programs: (i) an electronic central filing system for
documentation required by MEC, including that related to PEs, and (ii)
an information system for MEC with on-line connections to a central
server.



29
IL  New Implementation Indicators Added                Estimated                                            Actual
during Project Execution
Part 1: Procurement agent and external                                           The Loan Agreement required the hiring of a procurement agent
auditors for PEREL                                                               (Section 3.02 (a)) and of independent auditors (Section 4.01 (b.i)), but
no provisions were made originaUy to finance their services with PEREL
funds. This was rectified later on, when these transaction costs were
covered by PEREL.
1.1 The hinng of a procurement agent                                             As agreed with the Bank, the Government secured the services of a
procurement agent (UNDP/OPS) to handle contracting of consultants,
the procurement of goods and for arranging training activities under the
project. UNDP/OPS was involved in the procurement of most goods and
services financed by PEREL. The exception were the funds allocated to
activities in the hydrocarbon sector, which were procured directly by
YPF, an entity with experience in Bank procurement.
1.2 The hiring of independent auditors                                           The Coordinating Unit secured the services of independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank to audit the Project's annual financial statements.
These services were financed with PEREL funds.
Part J: Other related assistance                                                 PEREL resources were also used to fund the consulting services required
for three other components related to the privatization drive in which the
Government has been involved in recent years.
J. I Assessment of "Banco de la Provincia de                                     Even though this is a provincial bank, the Government decided to hire
Catamarca"                                                                       an expert to: (i) evaluate the options available to restructure this bank,
(ii) assess its additional capital requirements, and (iii) evaluate merging
options with private or public financial institutions.
J.2 Analysis of the "Compre Argentino"                                           PERAL financed a study to review the legal aspects of procurement
legislation                                                                      procedures followed by PEs. Its main purpose was to review the changes
introduced by the Government on the matter in order to determine
whether they had been sufficient to meet the conditionality agreed upon
l___________________________  with the Bank in the context of PERAL.
J.3 Support for SEGBA                                                            One of the general conditions of PERAL for subsequent tranche
reform                                                                          disbursement was that the Government approved plans acceptable to the
Bank to privatize and/or restructure SEGBA. Consulting services
financed by PEREL supported the privatization of this electric utility.



30
Table 6A: Project Costs
(US$ million)
Item                              Appraisal         Actual
Estimate
A. PE Reform Framework                                       4.0             2.0
B. Telecommunications Sector Reform                          3.1             1.9
C. Railways Sector Reform                                    7.1             8.0
D. Oil & Gas Sector Reform                                   3.5             2.7
E. Privatization of PEs under the Ministry of Defense                        1.2
F. Privatization Secretariat at MEC                                          1.0
G. Finance Secretariat at MEC                                                1.9
H. Computing Systems for MEC                                                 2.5
l. Procurement Agent & External Auditors for PEREL                             1.3
J. Other Related Assistance                                  5.3            0.07
Total                               23.0            22.9
Table 6B: Project Financing
(US$ million)
Appraisal estimate                       Actual
Source       Local    Foreign      Total    Local    Foreign       Total
costs     costs                costs      costs
IBRD               3.2        19.8      23.0      22.7        0.2           22.9
Govermment         9.9                   9.9       n.r.       n.r.          n.r.
Total              13.1       19.8      32.9      22.7        0.2           22.9
n.r.= there are no records available



31
Table 7: Status of Legal Covenants
Agreement           Covenant               Condition             Present        Fulfillment              Comments
Section                Type                                       Status           Date
3.01 (b-c)       Project             Satisfactory staffing of        C        April 1991         Project Coordination Unit is still
implementation      Project Coordinating Unit                                  operating, supporting the
arrangements                                                                   implementation of other related
Bank financed projects.
3.01 (d) &       Project             Timetable for Projed          C, with    Several dates, as    See Table S for details in
Schedule 5       implementation      implementation of selected    modifications  indicated in  Implementation Indicators.
arrangements        components                   as agreed    Sched. 5
with the
Bank
3.02 (a)         Procurement         Contractual arrangements to     C        June 1991
hire a procurement agent not
later than April 30, 1991
3.03 (b) &       Project             List of Project components    C, with
Schedule 2       implementation                                 modifications
arrangements                                    as agreed
with the
Bank
3.04             Monitoring/reviews   Semi-annual progress           C        Each March 31 &
reports, starting not later              September 30
than September30, 1991
4.01 (a-b)       Accounts/audits     Submit not later tlan April     C                          The statement of the external
30 ofeach year records and                                 auditors for 1991 is qualified,
account in accordance with                                 since they could not audit the
appropriate auditing                                       records of the procurement agent
principles consistently                                    (UNDP/OPS). Otherwise, the
applied by independent                                     Borrower has presented to the
auditors acceptable to the                                 Bank all the required externally
Bank                                                       audited financial statements.,
although nornally with delays.
6.01 (b)         Cro  conditionality   All th conitionsprecedent     C        June 21, 1991      Planned date of effectiveness in
for effectiveness   to the effectiveness of                                    the President's Report was
PERAL have been fulfilled                                  February 1991.



32
Table 8: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs ''
Stage of                                    Actual
project cycle                    Weeks             US$'000
Through Appraisal                             3 4                  5.1
Appraisal-Board                               35.1                72.6
| Board-Effectiveness                         12.7                 32
Supervision                                  60.4                204.1
Completion                                    7.0                 17.5
TOTAL                                     118.6                331.3
Table 9: Missions
Number        Days       Specialized
Stage of            Month/             of           in           staff           Perforrnanc: ratng         Types
Project cycle           year         persons        field"        skils       Implementation    Develop        of
Tepresented 2'     Status         ment       problems
Through appraisal"/   September 1988        ,8 1,d,e,ij
October 1988            2            7            c
November 1988          13           19         ac,de,ij
April 1989              1            8             I
August 1989             1           10            d
October 1989            8           17          a,c,ej
Appraisal through    June 1990               1            9             1
Board approval
October 1990            1            5          a,b,g,i
January 1991           2            2            g,k
Board approval       February 1991           3            3            g,h
through
effectiveness
Supervision          March 1991                           7          a,b,c,d,e          2
July 1991              2            4             a,b             I               I
November 1991           1            7            a                I              1
March 1992              1           4             a               I
October 1992            1            5            a                1              1
March 1993              1           10            a               1               I
Completion           April 1996              1            10            f
1/ Refers to TM/Mission Leader.
2/ Key to specialization:                                                  f Consultant
a. Task Manager                                                     g Division Chief
b. Task Manager, PERAL (Ln 3291-AR)                                j. Financial Analyst
c. Advisor, Hydrocarbons                                            h. Economist
d. Advisor, Railways                                                k. Country Departennt Director
e. Advisor, Telecomnmunications                                     i. Industrial Specialist
3/ Jointly with PERAL



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ARGENTINA
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE REFORM EXECUTION LOAN (PEREL)
(LOAN 3292-AR)
APPENDIX
Appendix A: Contribution of the Borrower to the ICR






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
A R G E N T I N A
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE REFORM EXECUTION LOAN (P E R E L)
(Loan 3292-AR)
PART III: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
PROGRAMA DE REFORMNIAS DE EMNIPRESAS PUBLICAS - PRESTAMO BIRF 3292-AR
INFORNIE DE TERNIINACION
A. INTRODUCCION
1.1 El Programa de Reforma de las Empresas Piblicas se inici6 bajo una clara conciencia de que el
deficit que las mismas producian afectaba seriamente el equilibrio fiscal amen de bfindar una
inadecuada provisi6n de bienes y prestacion de servicios.
1.2 Consciente de la magnitud del problema enunciado el gobierno planific6 un ambicioso programa que
permitiera incrementar la eficiencia y la calidad de los servicios proponiendo un plan de
privatizaci6n de Empresas Publicas tan amplio como fuera posible y de reestructuraci6n de aquellas
que no fuera posible privatizar, asegurando ademas claras reglas de juego.
1.3 A los fines de ejecutar e instrumentar lo mas arriba expuesto el Gobierno Nacional deline6 los
principios basicos de la reforma. los que se consumaron en los mensajes presidenciales a la
Asamblea Legislativa del 8 de julio de 1989 y el 10 de mayo de 1990.
1.4 Estos lineamientos politicos sustentan el programa de reforma que implementan las leyes 23.696 de
Reforma del Estado v 23.697 de Politicas Sociales comunitarias y su decreto reglamentario 584/90;
Lev 23.771 (Regimen Penal Tributario); Decreto 1225/89 modificada por la Ley 23.697; Decreto
4335/90 de profundizaci6n del programa de estabilizaci6n y reforma del Estado; Decreto 479/90 de
detenninaci6n del ambito de los distintos Ministerios y Subsecretaria, y demas normas vinculadas.
1.5 Estas normas, y las dictadas en su consecuencia, brindaron al Gobierno Nacional el marco adecuado
para iniciar la ejecuci6n concreta de su prop6sito de desvincular al Estado de las actividades
productivas y de servicios a cargo de las Empresas Publicas, y de dotar de la necesaria eficiencia a
aquellas que por su caracter debian permanecer en la 6rbita estatal.
1.6 Tal deterrninaci6n implic6 la necesidad de privatizar, o bien de dar en concesi6n y/o reestructurar un
importante numero de Empresas Piblicas.
1.7 Para la debida satisfacci6n de los requerimientos financieros de este Programa el Gobierno Nacional
acudi6 inicialmente al Banco Mundial requiriendole su apoyo. En tales terminos, entre los dias 10 y
17 de diciembre de 1990 una delegaci6n bajo la Jefatura del Dr. Luis Prol, Subsecretario de
Empresas Publicas inici6 negzociaciones con funcionarios del BIRF. La delegaci6n mencionada
discuti6 las acciones comprometidas, un borrador de una carta politica con el detalle de aquello que
el Gobierno se proponia ejecutar asi como compromisos de reducci6n del personal de las empresas
puiblicas, especialmente en el sector ferrocarriles y el cumplimiento de una deternninada politica de
precios para el sector hidrocarburos.



1.8 La Delegaci6n Arsgentina mostr6 pasos ya ejecutados tal como la privatizaci6n de la mayor linea de
carga conocida bajo el nombre de "Linea de Carga Rosario - Bahia Blanca", como principio de
ejecuci6n del prourama, asi como avances claros y decididos en el area de las telecomunicaciones.
1.9  En las negociaciones mencionadas se discutieron cuatro tipos de acciones que el Gobierno
Argentino se comprometia a ejecutar bajo el Acuerdo de Prestamo PERAL y que recibiera apovo a
traves de la Asistencia Tecnica brindada a traves del Proyecto PEREL. En rigor, se trataba de dos
Acuerdos de Prestamo, el primero consistente en un Proerama de Ajuste y el segundo en un
Programa de Asistencia Tecnica, ambos para la Reforma de las Empresas Publicas. Las acciones
comprometidas por el Gobierno fueron:
1. Acciones comprometidas en el campo de las empresas publicas
2. Acciones comprometidas en el sector hidrocarburos
3. Acciones comprometidas en el sector ferroviario
4. Cartas complementarias por las cuales se asumieron compromisos en materia de reducci6n del
personal de empresas publicas, politicas de precios y programa de politica econ6mica a ser
ejecutado
1.10 La Delegaci6n Argentina adopto el criterio de avanzar en las negociaciones y alcanzar el objetivo
de consumar el apoyo del Banco Mundial e iniciar activamente el programa de transformaci6n. Se
prioriz6 en consecuencia la idea de poner en marcha el proceso de privatizaci6n contando con la
cooperaci6n tecnica y financiera del Banco Mundial. El tiempo diria que la estrategia utilizada y a
la luz de la firmeza en las decisiones politicas adoptadas, seria la mas conveniente. La amplitud de
los logros obtenidos son prueba elocuente de cuanto hemos expuesto.
B. PERFORMANCE DEL BANCO
1.11 Racionalidad del Provecto: El Proyecto fue encarado por el Banco con suma racionalidad
proveyendo en todo momento el apoyo oportuno y adecuado para el logro eficaz de los objetivos
trazados.
1.12 Disefio. administraci6n y gesti6n: Tanto el disefno de realizacion de un proyecto de la magnitud del
que fue encarado, como su administracion y gesti6n constituy6 un exito que debe atribuirse tanto
a la experiencia demostrada por el Banco en la materia como en el hecho de haber permanecido
estable el staff del Banco a cargo de la gesti6n y administraci6n del prestamo, lo que favoreci6 las
acciones operativa comprometidas por las partes y el proceso de los resultados.
1.13 Las metas alcanzadas dentro de las acciones comprometidas por el Gobierno Argentino fueron
correctamente evaluadas mereciendo siempre los comentarios ajustados y criteriosos de los
fincionarios del Banco, actitud que involucr6 inclusive aquellas recomendaciones que implicaban
la toma de acciones correctivas o los comentarios relacionados a avances del Gobiemo mas alla de
las acciones comprometidas.
2



1. 14 El Banco breg6 permanentemente por el respeto de las Normas de Contratacion de Consultores,
hecho que coadvuv6 tanto a la correcta utilizaci6n de los mismos como a la adecuada asignaci6n
de los fondos del PEREL.
1.15 El Staff del Banco realiz6 un permanente y directo monitoreo del provecto a lo largo del mismo v
de cuya frecuencia y continuidad dan cuenta los "Aide Memoire" realizados al culminar cada
misi6n a los que se sumaron el dialogo cotidiano mantenido via telefonica durante la marcha del
trabajo con fincionarios del Banco.
1.16 La Unidad de Coordinaci6n, nexo permanente y obligado entre el Banco y Funcionarios del
Gobierno, cont6 con la consideracion permanente de las partes. Todo ello coadyuv6 al desarrollo
de un "feed back" dinamico y permanente que permitio el enriquecimiento y consenso en la toma
de decisiones.
C. PERFORMANCE DEL GOBIERNO
1.17 Conducci6n. coordinaci6n y gesti6n: El Gobierno evalua que los resultados alcanzados en este
programa fuieron ampliarnente exitosos, habiendose dado cumplimiento a las metas previstas y a
las condicionalidades acordadas con el Banco dentro de los plazos originalmente previstos.
Implementaci6n del vrovecto - Resultados
1.18. Los objetivos del Proyecto y la gran mayoria de sus componentes fueron alcanzados a su debido
tiempo.
Los Sectores
1.19. I. Marco de Reforma de las Empresas Puiblicas
'No hubo variaciones criticas entre las acciones planificadas y las implementaciones Ilevadas a cabo
- La Unidad de Coordinaci6n se estableci6 en el tiempo debido
Su presupuesto fue definido en la suma de U$S 1.200.000 con una implementaci6n en el tiempo de
ahios. Sin embargo estuvo en actividad desde el 10 de enero de 1991 al 31 de diciembre de 1995, dos
anios mas de lo presupuestado y con un costo real de U$S 1.3 12.538
Ademas de las actividades relacionadas at PERAL y at PEREL la Unidad de Coordinaci6n
implement6 el Japanese Grant Facility (Decreto 1903/92) y el Japanese Grant Agreement for
Industrial Modernization and Reestructuring Project (Decreto N 1145/90)y Proyecto para la
Proteccion de la Capa de Ozono. A los efectos de evaluar convenientemente el costo insumido por la
Unidad de Coordinaci6n debieran reatizarse las correspondientes asignaciones de costos
3



computandose el tiempo insumido en otros provectos del Banco Mundial. Corresponde mencionar
entre los si-uientes:
-  Misiones y acompafiamientos relacionados al PERAL II
Se llev6 a cabo un analisis de la evoluci6n de las Empresas Publicas antes y despues de las
Privatizaciones, incluyendo variaciones en la cantidad de personal, presupuestos y sistemas de
informacion
Se desarrollo un programa de seguiumiento y de control de la estrategia del Gobierno en relaci6n la
mejora de la productividad del trabajo
Se llevaron a cabo trabajos de consulta destinados a fortalecer la capacidad del prestatario para
reducir y monitorear los efectos adversos producidos en el medio ambiente y creando una estructura
institucional responsable en el area a nivel del Gobiemo Central y Gobiemos Provinciales
El Gobiemo asigno fondos a efectos de determinar el valor de venta de:
. Obras Sanitarias de la Naci6n - OSN
. Servicios Electricos del Gran Buenos Aires - SEGBA
. Agua y Energia - AyEE
. Empresa Lineas Maritimas Argentinas - ELMA
. Gas del Estado - GE
. Hidronor
. Empresa Nacional de Correos y Telegrafos - ENCOTEL
. Administracion General de Puertos - AGP
. Yacimnientos Carboniferos Fiscales - YCF
En todos estos casos se hizo un analisis de tarifas y de su estructura permitiendole al Gobiemo
apoyarse en estos resultados e implementar adecuadamente ala reforna
II. Reforma del Sector Telecomunicaciones
A su debido tiempo ffie creada la Comisi6n Nacional de Telecomunicaciones (CNT) la cual se encuentra
actualmente operando. PEREL financi6 la asistencia tecnica al Gobiemo Argentino en relaci6n a la
implementaci6n de la puesta en marcha de la CNT y al fortalecirniento de su rol regulatorio en el Sector.
La asistencia tecnica se centr6 en el desarrollo de experiencias en las siguientes areas:
a. Politica Regulatoria
b. Precios, Analisis de Costos y Analisis Financiero
c. Proorama de Inversiones, Calidad de Servicios, Estandares Tecnicos y Equipamiento
d. Sistemas de Administrativo, Sistemas Le-ales y Sistemas de Inforrnaci6n
e. Administracion del Radio Spectrum
A efectos de llevar a cabo estas tareas se seleccion6, siguiendo las Nornas del Banco Mundial a la firma
Coopers & Lybrand. Dicho contrato fue financiado por PEREL y completado exitosamente.
4



La CNT contrat6 a un grupo de legal (ADELCO) para que represente el interes de los abonados y para
monitorear la atenci6n de los reclamos.
'II. Reforma del Sector Ferrocarnles
En este sector se realizaron los mayores esfierzos relacionados al Proyecto con los siguientes resultados:
a.    Fue establecida la Unidad Tecnica en Ferrocarriles Argentinos a fin de fortalecer las capacidades de la
rnisma para desarrollar e implementar el Programa de Reestructuraci6n y Privatizaci6n. Esta Unidad
trabajo exitosamente estando a cargo de la coordinaci6n de las labores mayores y del seguimiento del
Pro grama.
b.    Se complet6 la privatizaci6n de las Lineas de Carga con la excepcion de la Linea Beigrano debido a
que no hubo ofertas por la misma. Las privatizaciones suffieron algunas demoras causadas por
algunos de los consorcios favorecidos con la concesi6n al hacerse evidente que las perspectivas
inmediatas de trafico eran menos favorables que las que se presumieron en el momento de la licitaci6n
y cuando aparecieron algunas incertidumbres en relaci6n a clausulas contractuales. Adicionalmente
inversiones complementarias en la infraestructura, especialmente la esperada rehabilitaci6n del puerto
de Bahia Blanca no fue hecha a su debido tiempo.
C.    Se complet6 exitosamente la asistencia tecnica para la reestructuraci6n de las lineas interurbanas de
pasajeros. Estos servicios fueron interrumpidos a comienzos de 1994 con excepci6n de aqueUlos
transferidos a compafiias provinciales o entes de acuerdo al pedido de Gobiernos Provinciales que
tomaron a su cargo los costos y responsabilidades que corresponden a la explotacion.
d.    No se requiri6 asistencia tecnica para el analisis e identificaci6n de opciones para privatizar sernicios
internos que eran provistos por FA.
e.    No se requiri6 asistencia tecnica para el desarrollo y ejecuci6n de un plan de acci6n para otorgar
franquicias en el material rodante.
f.    Se tom6 accion a traves de grupos consultores para preparar y ejecutar las operaciones iniciales
inherentes a la identificaci6n, desarrollo o venta de activos excedentes (no material de transporte) de
FA. Sin embargo resta aun implementar importantes tareas de este componente.
g.    Seguin lo convenido en el Acuerdo de Prestamo, inicialmente se creo una nueva compaihia del
Gobierno, "Ferrocarriles Metropolitanos de Buenos Aires S.A. - FEMESA", a fin de que operara
estos servicios, sin embargo unos meses mas tarde el Gobierno decidi6 privatizarlos. FEMvESA qued6
como una entidad del Gobiemo sin actividad en el sistema de transporte metropolitano ferroviario
debido precisamente a que la operacion de las lineas urbanas y suburbanas de pasajeros se dieron en
concesi6n a companiias privadas.
h.    A efectos de llevar a cabo el proceso de privatizaci6n de las Lineas Metropolitanas, el Proyecto
PEREL financio la asistencia tecnica requerida. cabiendo mencionar:
5



La definicion de la metodologia para el proceso de privatizaci6n
El establecimiento de las prioridades. secuencia y adecuaci6n tecnica y econ6mica de las
inversiones a ser hechas por FEMESA
La realizacion de un analisis relacionado a los proyectos de inversi6n a ser ejecutados por las
compafiias concesionarias
*      La exposicion y promoci6n, a nivel internacional del programa de privatizaciones
*      El desarrollo de estudios y recopilacion de informaci6n previos al acto licitatorio
*      La deterninaci6n del monto de los subsidios a ser otorgados a cada concesi6n
La preparacion de contratos de concesi6n
*      La negociaci6n de dichos contrato
Todas las lineas de pasajeros urbanas y suburbanas (Mitre, Sarmiento, San  fartin, Roca, Belgrano
Norte, Beigrano Sur y Subterraneos de Buenos Aires) han sido dadas en concesi6n a compani-as
privadas.
A traves de la asistencia del Federal Railways Administration of the United States, funcionarios de FA
se familiarizaron con las normas v practicas de control y de seguridad para las actividades ferroviarias.
Se creo la Comisi6n Nacional de Transporte Ferroviario, encontrandose la misma en operaci6n. Esta
a cargo de las regulaciones relacionadas con el transporte de carga y de pasajeros de larga distancia.
Realiza el sezuimiento de los contratos de concesi6n para las lineas de carga y esta asimismo a cargo
del tema seguridad de la totalidad del sistema ferroviario. La Unidad de Coordinaci6n del Programa
de Reforma del Sector Ferroviario realiza el control y supervision de los contratos de concesi6n
relacionados con el sistema metropolitano de transporte por ferrocarril.
El Proyecto PEREL contrat6 la asistencia tecnica para el desarrollo del area de la Terminal Retiro. El
estudio se hizo considerando, ademas de las necesidades del ferrocarril, aspectos legales, ingenieriles,
arquitect6nicos, econ6micos y financieros.
IV. Petroleo v Gas
En relaci6n a la privatizacion del transporte y distribuci6n del gas natural, el proyecto contrat6 asistencia legal
para revisar los contratos de operaci6n que se estaban operando, analizar el establecimiento de nuevas
unidades de negocio, compilar y estudiar la legislaci6n corriente, preparar documentos licitatorios, preparar
borradores de contratos y asistir en negociaciones contractuales.
Se dio asistencia tecnica para diseniar, crear y desarrollar la agencia Regulatoria de Gas. El Ente Regulatorio
fue creado a mediados de 1992 y desde entonces se han completado las posiciones de management y estan de
desarrollo la experiencia operacional, este es tambien un caso en el cual la privatizacion fue mas rapida que la
acci6n reguladora aunque esta fue instituida en el tiempo correcto.
V. Otra Asistencia Tecnica
6



a)     Privatizaci6n de Petroquimica Bahia Blanca (PBB)
El proyecto contrat6 un asesor financiero a fin de dar asistencia tecnica al Gobierno para
* realizar el analisis financiero de PBB
* revisar la auditoria ambiental hecha por la Secretania de Recursos Ambientales
* establecer el valor de mercado de PBB
* preparar material de promoci6n e informaci6n para potenciales interesados
* asistir en la preparaci6n de los borradores de contratos
* evaluar las ofertas
 asistir en los procesos de negociaci6n de contratos
La privatizacion se ha hecho efectiva juntamente con la privatizaci6n de la planta de INDUPA
b)     Privatizaci6n de SOMIISA
El proyecto contrato asistencia tecnica para:
*      prepara informaci6n para interesados potenciales
*      detenninar el valor del mercado de SOMISA
*      asistir en la definici6n de estrategias del procedimiento de venta
*      asistir en la definici6n de criterios para la selecci6n de la mejor ofertas
*      asistir en el analisis de las ofertas
c)    HIPASANM y NETEOR
El proyecto contrat6 asistencia tecnica para realizar la evaluaci6n ambiental de Hierro Patag6nico
Sierra Grande SM. (Hipasam y Meteor)
d)    Privatizaci6n de Astilleros y Fabricas Navales del Estado SA.. (AFNE)
El proyecto contrat6 asistencia tecnica para:
*      disefiar un programa de reestructuraci6n para AFNE
*      realizar un estudio de mercado destinado a determinar la factibilidad y estrategia del programa
de venta
*      identificar interesados potenciales
*      asistir en la evaluaci6n de las ofertas
*      asistir en las negociaciones de venta
*      asistir en las negociaciones contractuales
AFNE S. A. esta actualmente en el proceso de reestructuraci6n
7



e)    Reestructuraci6n del "Banco de Catamarca"
Se hizo un analisis destinado a otorgar de mayor eficiencia y productilidad a las operaciones del
Banco, posteriormente se hizo un estudio de alternativas analizando un posible "merging' con
entidades financieras publicas o privadas.
f)    Se asignaron fondos a traves del PEREL para elaborar un borrador de legislaci6n destinada a regular
el comportamiento comercial competitivo, proteger los derechos del consumidor y su posterior
implementaci6n..
g)    Programas de Propiedad Participada - PPP (Employees Stock Ownership Plans - ESOP) Se contrat6
asistencia tecnica para asistir al Gobierno en el disenio, promoci6n, implementaci6n y seguimiento de
los programas PPP en Empresas Publicas Privatizadas. Se estima que actualmente hay
aproximadamente 100.000 empleados bajo el PPP.
h)    Compre Nacional
A traves de abogados independientes y a fin de auditar al cumplimiento por el Gobiemo Argentino de
sus compromisos con el Banco, se analiz6 al existencia o no de preferencias para la adquisici6n de
bienes y servicios locales y de restricciones para la adquisici6n de bienes importados o servicio
extranjeros a contratar por el Gobierno Argentino.
Ampliando y detallando este listado de asistencia tecnica, se encuentra disponible el Inforrna
Final PEREL al 3 1.12. 1995 de la Unidad de Coordinaci6n.
D. RELACION ENTRE EL GOBIERNO Y EL BANCO
1.20 Las relaciones entre el Gobierno y el Banco se desarrollaron dentro de un clima de mutua
comprensi6n, con el Gobierno emprendiendo con decisi6n el programa de privatizaci6n de las
Empresas Publicas y el Banco Mundial apoyando su ejecuci6n. La continuidad de la politica
originalmente disefiada por parte del Gobierno Nacional y la permanencia en el Proyecto del Staff
originalmente dispuesto por el Banco para Ilevar a cabo el rnismo, fueron elementos esenciales en
las fluidas relaciones entre las partes.
1.21 La posibilidad de contar con un programa de Asistencia Tecnica como soporte de un Programa de
Ajuste coadyuvo positivamente en el exito del programa y en la definici6n de las partes en relaci6n
a los problemas tecnicos que debian ser solucionados durante el proceso. De esta manera, ha
quedado evidenciado que ambos, el Programa de Ajuste y el Programa de Asistencia Tecnica
constituveron un sistema complementado de alta efectividad.
1.22 Desde el punto de vista de la gesti6n del Proyecto, los "Aide Memoire" de los funcionarios del
Banco Mundial junto a los informes de avance producidos por el gobierno constituyeron, con su
interacci6n, apoyos sustanciales para el desarrollo de un clima de mutuo entendimiento entre las
8



partes y para la dinamizaci6n de la acci6n. Los inforrnes de avance fueron distribuidos en forma
simultanea a cada una de las esferas del Gobiemo involucradas en el programa y a las Autoridades
del Banco Mundial. De este modo cada una de las partes fiue informandose de los avances del
programa y de las actividades que debian desarrollarse para el cumplimiento total de lo
comprometido.
E. LECCIONES ADQUIRIDAS
1.23 Es conveniente destacar algunos hechos puntuales que se presentaron a lo largo del Proyecto a fin
de que sirvan de elementos de reflexion ante futuros emprendimientos a fin de posibilitar alguna
flexibilidad en la interpretaci6n de los textos acordados, y la mejor implementaci6n de los
Proyectos.
1.24 La redacci6n de las "Condicionalidades del Prestamo" aparecieron en su momento como
aceptables y definidas en el marco del programa que el Gobierno habia comprometido efectuar.
No obstante, el programa se amplio considerablemente de manera que se ejecutaron mas acciones
que las originariamente propuestas, pero habiendo quedado las clausulas restringidas a su prirnitiva
redacci6n. Esto origino que algunas clausulas redactadas para un volumen de reformas inferior al
efectivamente realizado crearon algunos problemas para evaluar cumplimientos inicialmente
pensados para una reforma de menor envergadura que la efectivamente realizada. En otros
terminos mientras los objetivos alcanzados eran mayores que los programados, el gobiemo
aparecia como no cumpliendo totalmente aquellos que habia contractualmente comprometido si el
analisis se efectuaba ateniendose al contenido literal de su redacci6n .
CONCLUSION: en el futuro, la redacci6n de las clausulas debieran serlo de modo tal que los
resultados puedan ser analizados en funci6n de la sustancia obtenida y no por la interpretaci6n
restrictiva de una clausula contractual. Esto fue particularmente evidente en el caso de la Clausula
I (a), Schedule 4, PERAL que se refiere a la privatizaci6n de las lineas de carga Urquiza, Mitre,
San Martin y Sarmiento sin hacer referencia a operaciones similares relacionadas a otras lineas de
carga.
1.25 El Gobiemo Argentino bajo un "Supplemental Letter" comprometi6 la reducci6n del personal
ferroviario en una cantidad de 30.000 agentes, como condici6n a ser cumplida previa -entre otras-
al segundo y tercer desembolso lo que creo dificultades de financiamiento, llevandolo a un
verdadero circulo vicioso: se disponia de fondos del prestamo pero no podia accederse a ellos por
carecer de mecanismos financieros que permitieran cumplir la condici6n de la reducci6n del
personal, previo pago del importe del retiro del mismo.
CONCLUSION: clausulas como la comprometida requieren o una soluci6n financiera claramente
estipulada por parte del gobierno como condici6n previa en su Presupuesto o bien que el Banco
pueda producir desembolsos parciales concomitantemente con el cumplimiento de la condici6n. En
este caso, haber podido realizar reducciones mensuales de personal ferroviario e ir recibiendo
9



desembolsos por cantidades equivalentes hubiera permitido un avance mas efectivo y rapido en la
ejecuci6n del programa.
1.26 El Gobierno Argentino asumi6 el comprorniso de derogar o modificar la legislaci6n de Compre
Argentino. Esto significaba disponer de una ley a ser dicrada por el Congreso Nacional para dar
pruebas del cumplimiento de lo comprometido.
CONCLUSION: parece necesario tanto cuanto fuere posible no incluir en los prestamos futuras
clausulas cuyo cumplimiento dependa de acciones que deben ser ejecutadas fuera de las esferas
administrativas (Ministerio) dentro de las cuales el proyecto se encuentra radicado. Esto produce
demoras y tramitaciones, la mayoria de las veces improductivas, cuando por su cumplimiento se
hace necesario reunir a otras esferas del Gobierno.
1.27  A traves de un Management Service Agreement firmado entre el Gobierno Argentino y el
Programa de las Naciones Unidas para el Desarrollo, el Proyecto recibi6 asistencia de este
Or,anismo en los temas vinculados al desarrollo del Public Enterprise Reform Executive Loan
ARG/91/RO1 (PEREL).
1.28 Es de destacar al respecto que el ritmo impuesto por el Gobierno Argentino al proceso de
privatizaciones torn6 dificultoso el cumplimiento estricto de la normas de la OPS-PNUID en
materia de contratacion de consultores. Estos inconvenientes se vieron significativamente
disminuidos cuando se decidi6 el envio a Buenos Aires de un funcionario residente de la OPS-
PN`NJD con quien fue posible agilizar los procedimientos y encontrar soluciones expeditivas a los
problemas que se fueron planteando.
1.29 La implementaci6n del Proyecto PEREL es considerado como un exito por el Gobiemo Argentino
al desempefiar un eficiente rol en la soluci6n de los problemas tecnicos que enfrent6 el Proyecto
PERAL. Urn Proyecto como PEREL, teniendo su raz6n de ser en la existencia del PERAL no tuvo
otra eleccion que el de asistirlo siguiendo el ritmo del Programa de Reforma y Privatizaciones,
cumpliendo sus tareas en los tiempos y calidad requeridos por el PERAL.
CONCLUSION: cabe destacar que este exito tuvo como factor dinamnizante, precisamente el ser
apoyo de un Proyecto, como el PERAL, que cont6 con el total respaldo e impulso del Gobiemo
Argentino.
1.30 Es de destacar, a efectos de ser tenido en cuenta en futuros provectos, que el Gobierno utiliz6 dos
metodologias en relaci6n a la conducci6n de los estudios de consultoria a realizarse a efectos de la
ejecuci6n del prestamo.
1.31 La primera desarrollada en el area de hidrocarburos donde el estudio y disefio corri6 por cuenta de
firmas consultoras. Esta prob6 ser una metodologia clara y globalizadora con un disefio apropiado
y didactico de ejecuci6n rapida pero costosa.
10



1.32 La segunda metodologia fue puesta en practica en Ferrocarriles Argentinos. Aqui e! esfierzo
qued6 subordinado a un lider de grupo que soport6 el peso del proyecto, asistido en muchos casos
por firmas consultoras y en otros casos por consultores individuales. Los resultados pueden
considerarse muy buenos y de costo reducido. Aqui, la idea de contar con una Unidad de
Coordinaci6n Central asistida por una Unidad Tecnica para el sector, mostro ventajas
significativas durante la ejecuci6n del Proyecto.
1.33 Esta ultima metodologia prob6 ser fuente de ingentes ahorros que deberian medirse frente al
demandante esfuerzo que exigi6 al grupo de tareas.
CONCLUSION: es recomendable tener en cuenta que estas dos metodologias pueden adoptarse
en la implementacion de los proyecto de asistencia tecnica, siendo una de ejecuci6n rapida y
costosa y otra de menor costo, mas lenta v demandando ingentes esfuerzos de un grupo de tareas.
F. SIUMAARIO
Los logros alcanzados por el Programa de Reforma de Empresas Piublicas encarado por el Gobierno
Argentino bajo la Presidencia del Dr. Carlos S. Menem y al cual PEREL brind6 asistencia tecnica, seran
apreciados a medida que el transcurso del tiempo vaya mostrando sus resultados. Sin embargo, pueden
destacarse algunas de sus consecuencias inmediatas:
a. impulso a la disminuci6n del deficit fiscal como resultado de la reducci6n de las transferencias del
Tesoro a las Empresas Puiblicas y aportes por contribucion de impuestos de las empresas
privatizadas.
b. mayores niveles de inversi6n y mas altos niveles de tecnologia en los sectores privatizados
c. Importante reducci6n del personal afectado en las Empresas Publicas y transferencia a otros sectores
de la economia.
d. Prestaci6n mas eficiente de servicios publicos privatizados tales como servicios telef6nicos,
transporte ferroviario, etc.
e. Eficiente uso de los recursos econ6micos aplicados al desarrollo de obras de infraestructura.
11












