Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
LOAN NUMBER 3292-AR 
(Public Enterprise Reform Execution Project)
between
THE ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated April 8, 1991
LOAN NUMBER 3292-AR
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 8, 1991, between the ARGENTINE REPUBLIC (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) by agreement of even date herewith (the PERAL Loan Agreement), the 
Bank has agreed to make a loan to the Borrower to assist in the financing of a program 
of actions, objectives and policies designed to achieve a structural adjustment of key 
sectors of the Borrower's Economy through, inter alia, the privatization and reform of 
public enterprises (the Program).
(B)
the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement which will support the 
execution of the Program, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the 
Project;
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Page  2
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 
deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(b)
"Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Bank to the Borrower pursuant to an exchange of letters dated August 
10, 1990 and August 17, 1990 between the Borrower and the Bank;
(c)
"Austral" and "A" means the currency of the Borrower; 
 
(d)
"ENTel" means Empresa Nacional de Telecomunicaciones, the National 
Telecommunications Company;
(e)
"FA" means Ferrocarriles Argentinos, the Borrower's National Railway 
Company;
(f)
"AGP" means Administracion General de Puertos, the Borrower's port 
administration entity;
(g)
"ENCOTEL" means Empresa Nacional de Correos y Telecomunicaciones, the 
Borrower's Post Office and Telecommunications Company;
(h)
"OSN" means Obras Sanitarias de la Nacion, the Borrower's Water and 
Sanitation Company;
(i)
"CNT" means Comision Nacional de Telecomunicaciones, the National 
Telecommunications Commission;
(j)
"DNV" means Direccion Nacional de Vialidad, the National Highway 
Authority;
(k)
"ELMA" means Empresa de Lineas Maritimas Argentinas, the Borrower's 
National Shipping Company;
(l)
"FM" means Ferrocarriles Metropolitanos, the Metropolitan Railways 
Entity;
(m)
"GdE" means Gas del Estado, the Borrower's Gas Company; 
 
(n)
"SEGBA" means Servicios Electricos del Gran Buenos Aires, the power 
distribution company of the Borrower for the Province of Buenos Aires;
(o)
"SIGEP" means Sindicatura General de Empresas Publicas, the Borrower's PE 
Comptroller;
(p)
"SOMISA" means Sociedad Mixta Siderurgica Argentina, the Steel Company of 
Argentina;
(q)
"YCF" means Yacimientos Carboniferos Fiscales, the Borrower's Coal 
Company;
(r)
"YPF" means Yacimientos Petroliferos Fiscales, the Borrower's National 
Petroleum Company;
(s)
"PE" means an enterprise or entity with independent patrimony and 
juridical personality of which a majority of the outstanding voting stock or other 
proprietary interest is owned or effectively controlled by the Borrower or any of its 
agencies;
(t)
"Eligible Activity" means a specific study or training program included 
under the Project which has been approved by the Bank for financing under the Loan;
Page  3
(u)
"Subsidiary Loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made by the 
Borrower to a PE, in terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, out of the 
proceeds of the Loan to finance the execution of an Eligible Activity;
(v)
"Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means an agreement entered or to be entered 
into by the Borrower and a PE providing for a Subsidiary Loan;
(w)
"MEC" means Ministerio de Economia, the Borrower's Ministry of Economy;
 
(x)
"MOSP" means Ministerio de Obras y Servicios Publicos, the Borrower's 
Ministry of Public Works and Services;
(y)
"SCC" means Subsecretaria de Combustibles, the fuels Subsecretariat under 
MEC;
(z)
"SST" means Subsecretaria de Transporte, the Sub-secretariat of Transport 
under MOSP;
(aa)
"SSE" means Subsecretaria de Energia Electrico, the Subsecretariat of 
Electric Energy under MEC;
(bb)
"Executing Agency" means any of the following MEC, SCC, SST, SSE or any 
other Secretariat or Subsecretariat agreed upon between the Borrower and the Bank, 
ENTEL, FA, YPF, GdE, CNT, ENCOTEL, SOMISA, ELMA, OSN, SEGBA, YCF, AGP, or any PE which 
has entered into a Subsidiary Loan Agreement for purposes of the Project, and 
"Executing Agencies" means two or more Executing Entities referred to collectively;
(cc)
"Account Bank" means the Borrower's Central Bank or any other bank 
established and operating in Argentina acceptable to the Bank;
(dd)
"Project Coordinating Unit" means the coordinating unit established 
pursuant to Resolution No. 50, of the Borrower's Subsecretaria de Empresas Publicas, 
dated November 28, 1990, to be maintained by the Borrower pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) 
of this Agreement; and
(ee)
"Management Service Contract" means the contract referred to in Section 
3.02 of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, various currencies that 
shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of twenty-three million dollars 
($23,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each 
withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in the Account Bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set off, seizure or 
attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amount required to 
repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
cancelled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1995 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Page  4
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding 
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the 
principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the 
rate applicable during such Interest Period.
(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall 
notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such 
Semester.
(c)
For the purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
"Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the date 
immediately preceding each date specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period in which this 
Agreement is signed.
(ii)
"Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as reasonably 
determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum, of 
the outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30, 
1982, excluding such borrowings or portions thereof as the Bank 
has allocated to fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B) loans 
which may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing interest 
rates determined otherwise than as provided in paragraph (a) of 
this Section.
(iii)
"Semester" means the first six months or the second six months of 
a calendar year.
(d)
On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months' notice 
to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to 
read as follows:
"(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter 
equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the 
preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the 
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay 
interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the preceding 
Interest Period, calculated at the rates applicable during such Interest 
Period."
"(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter, the Bank 
shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in 
respect of such Quarter."
"(c)
(iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period commencing on January 
1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a calendar year."
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on March 
1 and September 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project through the Executing Agencies as described in the Annex to Schedule 2 
to this Agreement, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, financial and management practices, and shall provide, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for 
the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
Page  5
the Borrower shall maintain in MEC, until the Closing Date, the Project Coordinating 
Unit with functions and responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank, including, inter 
alia, the following:
(i)
coordinate the execution of all parts of the Project;
 
(ii)
approve the procurement of goods and the selection of, and the 
terms of reference for, the consultants proposed by the Executing 
Agencies;
(iii)
review of all consultants' reports and provision of feedback to 
the National Project Director, the Executing Agencies and the Bank 
on their content and on the soundness of the consultants' 
recommendations;
(iv)
prepare semi-annual reports on the progress of the Project; and
 
(v)
make all necessary administrative arrangements for the timely 
procurement of goods and hiring of consultants required for the 
Project.
(c)
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project Coordinating Unit is at all 
times headed by a Secretary or Sub-secretary of MEC acceptable to the Bank, as 
National Project Director, assisted by a full-time Deputy Director with 
qualifications, experience and terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and by 
qualified staff in adequate numbers.
(d)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
carry out the Project substantially in accordance with the Implementation Program set 
forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. (a) Not later than April 30, 1991, the Borrower shall enter into 
contractual arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank, with an agent or agents acceptable 
to the Bank, for handling contracting of consultants, the procurement of goods and for 
arranging training activities under the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the contractual arrangements 
referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section in such a manner as to protect the 
interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan and, 
except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, 
abrogate or waive such arrangements or any provision thereof.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall: (i) carry out all studies included in the 
Project under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank which, unless the Borrower 
and the Bank shall otherwise agree, shall include specific programs or plans of action 
to meet the objectives of the Project; (ii) promptly after the completion of each such 
study, furnish to the Bank copy of its findings and recommendations including such 
programs or plans of action; (iii) afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to comment 
on such findings, recommendations and programs or plans of action; and (iv) where 
appropriate, and taking into account the Bank's comments thereon, prepare programs or 
plans of action to carry out the recommendations of such studies.
(b)
The Borrower undertakes to carry out such programs and plans of action as 
required to meet the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement and the Program.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower and the Bank shall semi-annually, starting not 
later than September 30, 1991 and on each March 31 and September 30, thereafter, and 
when requested by either party, exchange views on the progress achieved by each 
Executing Agency in carrying out their respective parts of the Project.
(b)
Not later than 15 days prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower 
shall, through the Project Coordinating Unit, furnish to the Bank for its review and 
comment a report on the progress achieved by each Executing Agency in carrying out 
their respective parts of the Project, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably 
request.
Section 3.05. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Page  6
(b)
Public servants employed by the Borrower under any kind of administrative 
arrangements (including leave without pay) shall not be eligible for providing 
consulting services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(c)
The Borrower shall maintain in the Executing Agencies qualified staff in 
adequate number as counterparts of the consultants employed under the Project.
Section 3.06. (a) In order to finance the execution of specific Eligible 
Activities, the Borrower shall relend part of the proceeds of the Loan to the PEs 
executing them in amounts and terms and conditions which shall have been approved by 
the Bank.
(b)
Without limitation to the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, 
the Borrower, under the respective Subsidiary Loan Agreement, shall cause the PE: (i) 
to carry out the Eligible Activity with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance 
with appropriate practices; (ii) to provide promptly as needed the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for such purposes; and (iii) to comply with all 
the obligations related to procurement, auditing and exchange of views and information 
set forth or referred to in this Agreement with respect to the Eligible Activity to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(c)
Each Subsidiary Loan shall be denominated in dollars and repayable in 
Australes and shall carry the same financial terms and conditions applicable to the 
Loan.
(d)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreements in such a manner so as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the 
Bank, and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive any 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained separate 
records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices 
the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the 
departments or agencies of the Borrower (including the Executing Agencies and the 
Account Bank) responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than four months after the end of each such year, the report 
of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail 
as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to 
time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Loan Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
Page  7
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified, provided, however, that if any event 
referred to in paragraphs (a) or (b) shall affect the execution of only part or parts 
of the Project and be continuing, the suspension of the Borrower's rights to make 
withdrawals from the Loan Account may be limited by the Bank to the amounts utilized 
or to be utilized to finance the execution of the Part or Parts of the Project 
affected by such event:
(a)
that the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have 
taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment or the suspension of the 
operations of any Executing Agency; and
(b)
that an Executing Agency shall have failed to perform any of its 
obligations under a Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified, namely, that the event specified in 
paragraphs (a) or (b) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue 
for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to 
the Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:
(a)
that the Project Coordinating Unit shall have been staffed in a manner 
satisfactory to the Bank; 
(b)
that all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the PERAL Loan 
Agreement have been fulfilled, subject only to the effectiveness of this Agreement.
Section 6.02. The date July 8, 1991 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Ministro de Economia of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministerio de Economia
Hipolito Yrigoyen 250
Buenos Aires
Argentina
Cable address: 
Telex:
 
MINISTERIO ECONOMIA 
121952 AR
Page  8
Baires
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD 197688 
(TRT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA)
 64145 (WUI) or
 82987 (FTCC)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
THE ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
By /s/ Carlos Ortiz de Rosas
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Pieter P. Bottelier
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                           Amount of the
                          Loan Allocated            % of
                           (Expressed in        Expenditurea
      Category          Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1)   Consultants'            21,450,000        100%, net of taxes
      services and
      training
(2)   Goods                      800,000        100% of foreign
                                                expenditures and
                                                85% of local
                                                expenditures
(3)   Refunding of               750,000        Amounts due pur-
      Project Prepara-                          suant to Section
      tion Advance                              2.02 (c) of this
                                                Agreement
Page  9
            TOTAL             23,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the 
equivalent of $500,000, may be made on account of payments made for expenditures 
before that date but after July 1, 1990;
(b)
expenditures by a PE until the Bank shall have received a duly certified 
copy of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement for the Eligible Activity in question, entered 
into by such PE together with an opinion or opinions satisfactory to the Bank of 
counsel acceptable to the Bank showing, on behalf of the Borrower and the PE that the 
respective Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by, and 
executed and delivered on behalf of the PE and the Borrower and is legally binding 
upon the parties thereto in accordance with its terms;
(c)
expenditures under Part C of the Project, made on or after January 1, 
1994, or such later date as the Bank shall have determined, until the Bank shall have 
disbursed the funds allocated to Category (2) of the table set forth in paragraph 1 of 
Schedule 1 of the Loan Agreement entered into between the Borrower and the Bank, for 
the Public Enterprise Reform Adjustment Loan (hereinafter the "PERAL Loan Agreement"); 
and
(d)
expenditures under Part D of the Project, made on or after January 1, 
1994, or such later date as the Bank shall have determined, until the Bank shall have 
disbursed the funds allocated to Category (3) of the table set forth in paragraph 1 of 
Schedule 1 of the PERAL Loan Agreement.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist in the implementation of the Program 
by supporting: (a) the total or partial privatization of four major PEs in Argentina 
as well as improving the financial viability and service quality of their 
non-privatized business units; (b) the preparation of further privatization programs; 
and (c) the strengthening of the institutional and regulatory framework for the 
sectors in which PEs and privatized entities operate.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
PE Reform Framework
 
A program to strengthen the Borrower's administrative capabilities to plan, 
execute and monitor the privatization and/or restructuring of PEs, including: (i) the 
establishment of a coordinating unit in MEC to lead, plan and monitor the execution of 
the Program; (ii) the establishment and implementation of a strategic plan for MEC to 
strengthen the Borrower's program for the privatization and/or restructuring of PEs, 
which includes the upgrading of existing management information systems of PEs and 
SIGEP; (iii) development and implementation of a labor management strategy aimed at 
improving labor productivity in PEs; (iv) the strengthening of the Borrower's 
capabilities to monitor and reduce adverse environmental effects of the activities of 
PEs and private companies particularly in the oil and gas, railway and 
telecommunication sectors; and (v) development and execution of privatization and/or 
restructuring plans for ELMA, AGP, ENCOTEL, OSN, SEGBA, DNV, AyEE and other specific 
PEs agreed upon between the Borrower and the Bank.
Part B:
Telecommunications Sector Reform
 
A program to privatize and restructure the telecommunications sector including: 
Page  10
(i) the conclusion of the privatization of ENTel and (ii) the establishment and 
initial operation of a National Telecommunications Commission to regulate and monitor 
sector activities in order to ensure competitive behavior and compliance with 
concession and service obligations by private operators.
Part C:
Railways Sector Reform
 
A program to privatize and restructure the railways sector, including: (i) 
strengthening of FA capabilities to develop and implement a restructuring and 
privatization program; (ii) analysis and identification of railway cargo concession 
options and development and execution of related action plans; (iii) development and 
execution of an action plan for restructuring interurban passenger services; (iv) 
analysis and identification of privatization options for internal service activities 
now provided by FA; (v) development and execution of an action plan to franchise FA 
rolling stock; (vi) establishment and initial operation of an asset management unit in 
FA to survey non-transport related FA assets and to prepare and execute plans for the 
development or sale of such assets; (vii) establishment and initial operation of a 
railway employee management unit to assist FA's management in the restructuring of its 
labor force; (viii) development and execution of plans to restructure metropolitan 
services including the establishment of an independent railway company under local 
government control and financing and the development of accounting and insurance 
systems for such company; (ix) development of new safety and operating rules and  
practices for railway activities; and (x) development of a new regulatory framework 
for the national railway system (including Buenos Aires metropolitan passenger 
services) to ensure competitive behavior by operators, adequate environmental 
safeguards and efficient interconnection of transport services.
Part D:
Oil and Gas Sector Reform
 
A program to restructure the organization and operation of the oil and gas 
sectors, including: (i) development and execution of a strategic plan defining the 
long-term objectives of YPF after the restructuring and divestiture of parts of its 
organization and activities including establishment of new business units; (ii) 
privatization and/or establishment of joint ventures of selected YPFs upstream and 
downstream operations and transport services; (iii) privatization of the gas transport 
and distribution facilities of GdE; and (iv) strengthening and development of the 
Borrower's regulatory capabilities in the oil and gas sector to ensure competitive 
behavior and compliance with concession and service obligations by private operators 
and application of adequate safety, operational, environmental and marketing 
procedures.
*           *           *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1994.
ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 2
Arrangements for the Execution of the
different Parts of the Project
Part of the Project 
Executing Agencies
 
Part A (i)
MEC
 
Part A (ii)
MEC/SIGEP
 
Part A (iii)
MEC
 
Part A (iv)
MEC
 
Part A (v)
MEC/SSE/Applicable PEs
 
Part B (i)
MEC/CNT/ENTel
 
Part B (ii)
MEC/CNT
 
Part C (i) through C (ix)
MEC/SST/FA
 
Part C (x)
MEC/SST
 
Part D (i)
MEC/SCC/YPF
 
Page  11
Part D (ii)
MEC/SCC/YPF
 
Part D (iii)
MEC/SCC/GdE
 
Part D (iv)
MEC/SCC
 
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due
(expressed in dollars)*
 
On each March 1 and September 1
beginning September 1, 1996
through September 1, 2007
960,000
 
and on March 1, 2008
920,000
 
_____________________________
*
The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as of the 
respective dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 
4.03.
Premiums on Prepayment
Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium payable on 
the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage 
specified for the applicable time of prepayment below:
Time of Prepayment 
Premium
 
The interest rate (expressed as a 
percentage per annum) applicable to 
the Loan on the day of prepayment 
multiplied by:
Not more than three years
0.18
before maturity
More than three years but
0.35
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but
0.65
not more than eleven years
before maturity
More than eleven years but not
0.88
more than fifteen years
Page  12
before maturity
More than fifteen years
1.00
before maturity
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I 
and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published 
by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A hereof, goods manufactured in Argentina may be granted a margin of preference in 
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
Goods estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $25,000 per contract, up to 
an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of $100,000, may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations solicited from a list 
of at least three suppliers or contractors eligible under the Guidelines, in 
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
2.
Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $25,000 or more but not exceeding the 
equivalent of $250,000, up to an aggregate not exceeding the equivalent of $700,000, 
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, 
advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank. 
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent 
of $25,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the 
Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed 
copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 
2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the first payment out of 
the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
said procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the Bank 
pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to 
be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which the Bank has authorized withdrawals on the basis of 
statements of expenditure.
2.
The figure of 10% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
In order to assist the Borrower in the carrying out of the Project, the Borrower 
shall employ and cause each Executing Entity to employ consultants whose 
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be 
satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with 
principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for 
Page  13
the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing 
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
SCHEDULE 5
Implementation Program
Start not 
Completion
Part of the Project
later than
not later than
 
Part A (iii)
______________*
June 30, 1991
 
Part A (iv)
June 30, 1991
March 30, 1993
 
Part B (ii)
April 30, 1991
April 30, 1993
 
Part C (ii)
June 30, 1991
June 30, 1992
 
Part C (iii)
July 31, 1991
December 31, 1991
 
Part C (vii)
_____________* 
December 31, 1993
 
Part C (viii)
September 30, 1991
September 30, 1992
 
Part C (x)
September 30, 1991
March 31, 1993
 
Part D (i)
April 30, 1991
March 31, 1992
 
Part D (ii)
April 30, 1991
March 31, 1993
 
Part D (iii)
April 30, 1991
October 31, 1992
 
Part D (iv)
June 30, 1991
March 31, 1992
 
__________________________
*
Already in execution.
 
SCHEDULE 6
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means the Categories (1) and (2) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $250,000 
to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
for withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the 
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have 
requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
Page  14
at such intervals as the Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested 
and as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence 
to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank 
from the Loan Account under the respective eligible Categoryaiesá, 
and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been 
justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shallreasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, 
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such 
procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further 
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been 
satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the 
date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be;
(b)
if the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount;
(c)
the Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account; and
(d)
refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
