ll   @                                  -  di  l-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
U,!i>                            |'                           1                      f|      g
I'~~~~~~~~~c
U   I~~~~



CJRRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit   Algerian Dinar (DA)
US$ 1.00 - DA 4.60
DA 1.00 - US$O.217
DA 1,000,000   = US$ 217,391
FISCAL YEAR
January L - December 31
LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS, ACRONYXS AND TERMS
USED IN THE REPORT
DEL            Direct Exchange Line (telephone)
DGT            Directorate General of Telecommunications
MIP            Management Improvement Program of the Algerian
MXinistry of Posts and Telecommunications
PCO            Public Call Office
P&T            Ministry of Posts and Telecommunications
RTA            Radio TUlgvision Algdrienne
SONELEC        National Company for the Manufacture of Electric and
Electronic Equipment
SONATITE       National Company for Telecommunications Infrastructure
Works
Wilaya         Local government area (comparable to a province)
of which there are 31 in Algeria.



FOR OMCIL USE ONLY
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
TELECOMHUNICATIONS PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:      Democratic and Popular Republic of Algeria
Amount;        US$128 million equivalent, including the capitalized
front-end fee.
Terms:         15 years, including 3 years grace, at the standard variable
rate. All interest and other charges on the loan, and
repayments of principal would be charged to P&T's operating
budget.
Project
Description: The proposed project consists of: (i) construction of 5
coaxial cable links between transit exchanges in ten wilayas
(provinces) and their linking to the main east-west and
north-south trunk routes; (ii) the automation of regional
cable and transmission systems in 22 wilayas, including the
automation of small capacity exchanges and the connection of
some 42,000 new distant subscribers; (iii) construction and
rehabilitation of local cable networks in about 450 large and
medium towns in order to connect approximately 310,000 new
telephone subscribers; (iv) setting up of about 600 public
telephone call offices in isolated rural areas and
communities now without access to telecommunications
services; (v) provision of equipment and materials for large
regional centers and stores, tools and machinery for network
construction, power supply and testing equipment; and (vi)
technical assistance and training in management and
organization of telecommunications development and
operations, development planning and engineering, financial
management, accounting and cost accounting. The project
would be carried out from 1983 to 1988. The principal
project risk is possible delays in project implementation.
Although such delays and consequent disbursement lags have
been generalized in the past, this risk has been mitigated by
ensuring an advanced state of project preparation (especially
procurement), and an emphasis on resolution of project and
sector issues before presentation to the Board. As with
telecommunications projects in general, delay in completion
of one component will not prevent the use of other assets,
and the project's rate or return is not very sensitive to
fluctuations in project costs or operating revenues.
BEST COPY AVAILABLE
Ti doumet has a restictd distibution and mway be used by recpients only in the perfomnc of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be dscosed wnthout World Bank uob



- ii 
Estimated Cost of the Project:
Local    Foreign      Tot all
Items                         -US$ Millions------
Coaxial cables for trunk network                   10.8      12.3         23.1
Automation of regional                             28.7      36.1         64.8
networks and of main rural areas
Local and urban networks                           94.1      52.8        146.9
Public call offices in isolated communities         8.7       7.7         16.4
Technical assistance and training                   0.5       2.0          2.5
Tools and miscellaneous equipment                   0.5       1.5          2.0
Base Cost                                       143.3    112.4        255.7
Contingencies - Physical                            6.1       4.2         10.3
- Price                             35.0      11.1        46.1
Total Project Cost                              184.4 1/ 127.7        312.1
Front-end fee                                     -        0.3          0.3
Total Financing Needs                           184.4    128.0        312.4
Financing Plan
Local      Forein   Total
----US Millions------
Net internal cash generation/
Treasury loans                               184.4        -        184.4
IBRD                                             -        128.0      128.0
Total                                        184.4       128.0     312.4
Estimated Disbursements:
FY   1984       1985      1986       1987      1988    1989
- ---------US$ Millions- -
Annual                10.0       36.0        40.0      32.0      8.0       2.0
Cumulative            10.0       46.0        86.0     118.0   126.0    128.0
Economic Rate of Return:       38 percent
Staff Appraisal      No. 3054b-AL of November 22, 1983
Report:
1/ Of which about 20 percent represents customs duties and taxes.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED ILAN IN AN
AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO USS128.0 MILLION TO THE
DEHOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
FOR A TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Democratic and Popular Republic of Algeria, for the equivalent of
US*128 million, including the capitalized front-end fee, to help finance a
*              telecommunications project.  The loan would have a term of 15 years
including 3 years of grace, at the standard variable interest rate.
PART I - THE ECONONY
2.       An economic mission visited Algeria in January 1981 to review the
Five Year Development Plan and a report entitled "Algeria - The Five Year
Development Plan and the Medium Term Prospects 1980-84" (3668-AL) was
distributed to the Executive Directors in July 1982. Updating was made
following brief staff visits in January 1982 and April 1983.
Long term economic objectives
3.       In 1966, Algeria's Revolutionary Council defined the fundamental
objectives which the country intended to pursue during the future decades.
They were reaffirmed in detail in the National Charter approved by
referendum in June 1976. In brief, they are (i) to expand and organize the
production base, enabling the economy to reach a stage of self-sustained
growth with full employment; (ii) to achieve economic independence, which
implies that the country would rely first on its own resources for
development, although international economic relations would be expanded and
diversified; and (iii) to improve income distribution, particularly among
regions. The National Charter and the new Constitution, approved in
November 1976, added the objective of economic democracy, meaning that
economic decentralization would be increased and that effective control over
investment plans and management of economic units would be vested in
workers' and peoples' assemblies. They also substantially strengthened the
national commitment to regional development.
4.       Following the death of President Boumediene, a smooth transfer of
power and wider participation of political institutions characterized the
transition leading to the election of President Chadli Bendjedid and the
appointment of a new Government in March 1979. The President and the new
Government have reaffirmed their commitmient to the basic principles of
Algeria's long-term development objectives and to the implementation of the
National Charter. Emphasis has been placed on satisfying the basic material
and social needs of the population, in particular housing, education and
training.



- 2-
Medium term development strategies
5.       The main elements of Algerian development strategy continue to be
the establishment of a diversified and integrated industrial base, expansion
of agricultural output towards self sufficiency, and increased efficiency in
production and distribution. After the 1974-77 Plan Period, the Government
decided that 1978 and 1979 would be transitional years devoted to the
completion of on-going projects and programs, and to the preparation of a
new Plan, covering the period 1980-84.
6.       The Five Year Plan was approved by the National Popular Assembly in
November 1980 following a long review process within the country's various
political and social institutions. Investmenr was to be reoriented toward
the social sectors, especially housing. Development of education and
training, economic infrastructure and regional development were to be
stepped up. Agriculture and water development received special attention. On
the other hand, investment in the industrial sectors was to be slowed down.
The Plan provided for completion of ongoing industrial projects and gave
priority to new projects that establish linkages between existing industries
and that eliminate the constraints on optimum utilization of production
capacities.  Emphasis was placed on light industries and small and
medium-scale enterprises, in order to expand and strengthen the country's
industrial base.
7.       The priority given to hydrocarbon development as a means of raising
financial resources is maintained in the 1980-84 Plan. However, a policy
for moderating the long-term rate of exploitation of oil and gas resources
was introduced in the Plan. This conservation policy, which aims at
maintaining the long run growth in export volumes, and thus of import
capacity, was expected to allow Algeria to avoid long run balance of
payments difficulties that would have reappeared after 1990 if the original
program providing for rapid exploitation of hydrocarbon resources had been
maintained.
8.       Economic decentralization was to be pursued, and important
structural reforms were to be introduced, relating in particular to the
organization and management of agriculture, industry and the financial
system. Special emphasis was put on measures aimed at improving the
efficiency of the economic system and of financial management in general.
After a decade of high levels of investment and austerity in consumption, a
path combining increased consumrtion and improved quality of life with
rationalized investment and more effective utilization of capital and
technology, was to be followed.
Implementation of past and current plans
9.       The evolution of the Algerian economy during the 1970-73 and
1974--77 Plan periods was characterized by strong investment growth, a high
savings rate, substantial growth in industry and construction and high
employment creation. The GDP grew at an annual rate of 9 and 7 percent
respectively during the two Plan periods. However, the implementation of



-3-
the two Plans, which emphasized capital intensive investment in industry,
generated imbalances between the very high level of investment (an average
of 37 aad 50 percent of GDP for the two Plan periods) and Algeria's growing
but limited financial and human resources. This led to pressures on external
and domestic financial resources (the resource gap increased from 7 to 12
percent of GDP between 1970 and 1977), and to widening development lags in
non-industrial sectors. Moreover, the marginal efficiency of capital has
tended to fall from one pLan to the next, particularly in the
non-hydrocarbon industry where investment efforts were the most
substantial. External capital requirements increased, and large borrowings
abroad caused a steep rise in debt and debt service obligations. The overall
Government budget, including investment expenditures and capital transfers
to public enterprises, showed large deficits (7 percent of GDP at the end of
1977), and credit to the economy increased rapidly.
10.      While developments in 1978 and in 1979 were in many ways similar to
those of 1974-77, they also anticipated the strategy and objectives of the
1980-84 Plan. Real growth of GDP was propelled by an acceleration of growth
in non--hydrocarbon sectors, especially industry and construction, and by
increases in output in hydrocarbons and agriculture. Although low capacity
utilization continued to plague many plants, relative improvements in
operating levels of existing plants and start-up of new plants allowed
growth of industrial output to accelerate. Appropriations in
non-hydrocarbon industry were restrained to allow only the completion of
projects undertaken under the previous Plans. Nevertheless, total planned
investment increased substantially in 1978, in particular for gas
development and the country's total fixed capital formation exceeded 48
percent of GDP. Total imports also increased substantially in spite of
restrictions on items other than capital goods, while the increase in the
current value of exports was limited, as Algerian oil prices diminished in
the first half of 1978. Thus, the current account deficit widened to
$3.5 billion (14 percent of GDP), involving high new loan commitments and
disbursements ($4.7 billion).
11.      In 1979, the average export price of Algerian crude oil rose 54
percent above the average price for 1978. This, combined with rising gas
exports, brought substantial additional financial resources. On the other
hand, for the first time, investment in industry fell in real terms, while
budget appropriations were increased for investment in housing, agriculture
and irrigation, distribution, and economic infrastructure.   With the
increased revenue from the hydrocarbon sector, restraint on industrial
investment and further limitations on imports, the current account deficit
was reduced to $1.6 billion (5 percent of GDP). Algeria continued,
nonetheless, to borrow heavily from commercial sources in 1979 to help
finance its investment program for hydrocarbon development, especially gas.
External debt service sharply increased, to $2.7 billion from $1.5 billion
in 1978. In spite of the large increases in hydrocarbon export revenues,
the debt service ratio increased, from 21.6 percent in 1978 to 26.6 percent
in 1979.



- 4 -
12.      During 1980, rapid growth was maintained in the non-hydrocarbon
sectors, especially in industry. As a result of a recovery in investment
associated with the introduction of the new Plan, and of relaxing the
restraints on private consumption in the context of the new social
orientations, domestic demand increased substantially. Moreover, the
Government introduced programs aiming at easing enterprise input supply and
eliminating shortages in a number of consumer goods and foodstuffs. Despite
the resulting steep increase in imports, the external finance situation
further improved in 1980 thanks mainly to a 68 percent increase in the
average price of crude oil. Although there were interruptions in gas
deliveries during the year, total hydrocarbon export revenue rose to
US$13.4 billion from US$s.5 billion in 1979. The current account was almost
in equilibrium and the external debt service dropped to about 25 percent of
exports.
13.      With about 98% of its merchandise exports composed of hydrocarbons,
the Algerian economy is heavily influenced by the developments in the oil
and gas markets. In 1981 and 1982, its continued diversification of exports
towards refined products, condensate and natural gas, and the successful
renegotiation of gas contracts with several European countries have eased
the effects of the oil glut on its external revenue position. In addition,
the softening of oil prices and lower oil exports were associated with
impGrt cut backs and limitations on the growth of domestic expenditure,
particularly of investment; in 1981-1982 fixed investment increased at about
3.7 percent in real terms, a lower rate than the expected average of 7.3 in
the 1980-84 Plan. Thus, external debt was actually reduced by $1.3 billion
between 1980 and 1982, although debt service rose to 29.5 percent of exports
as these latter dropped in value. The GDP growth performance, excluding
hydrocarbons, remained at a relatively high 8 percent annual average in the
period 1980-82, as capacity utilization improved. Overall, GDP growth is
estimated at an average of 5.3 percent p.a. in 1980-82. Growth of Treasury
revenues in 1981-82 slowed down as a result of oil price decline, but
current expenditures continued to show large increases, reflecting the
implementation of the social programs included in the 1980-84 Plan.
However, Algeria has been able to limit the size of the overall budget
deficit, as capital expenditures growth was lower than planned.
14.      In line with the objectives of the 1980-84 Plan, and long term
objectives, major reforms have been carried out in the last two years. They
include a reorganization of Ministries of Planning and Finance; regional
and sectoral decentralization, as well as financial restructuring of the
public enterprise and the socialist agriculture; a guided development of the
private sector in agriculture and small scale industry, through new
selective credit and fiscal policies; and a vigorous program of house
construction with foreign contractors. A national agricultural bank was
also created. It is still too soon to ascertain the impact cf these reforms
on development prospects for the economy.



-5-
Social development
15.      During the implementation of past and current Plans, social
development continued rapidLy, favoring particularly the most disadvantaged
groups. Policy measures which contribute to raising the living standards of
those groups have incLuded increases in the guaranteed minimum wage, free
education and health services, increases in producer prices for agricultural
products and subsidies on basic commodities. Large salary increases were
granted by the Government in 1978 and 1980, and the minimum agricultural
wage was raised to the leveL of the minimum wage in industry. The
disadvantaged groups have also benefited from the implementation of the
agrarian reforms, the creation of non-agricultural employment in the less
developed regions, (multiplication of small and medium-scale enterprises at
the regional and local levels), construction of public housing and rapid
development of free health care, education, training and other social
services. Overall, Government current and capital expenditure directly
affecting social development increased to 52 percent of total direct
Government expenditure in 1982 (from 50 percent in 1977, and 45 percent in
1973).
16.      According to the last 1977 Census, Algeria's resident population
was 17.L million at the end of 1977, and 1 million Algerians were living
abroad, mainly in Europe. Between 1966 and 1977, annual population growth
was estimated at 3.2 percent, and the urban population increased from
31 percent to 41 percent of the total resident population. Some 57 percent
of the population is now under 20 years of age. Together with a 6 percent
rate of urban growth, this factor is causing an extremely rapid increase in
the demand for housing, social services, urban facilities and employment.
More than half a million jobs were created in industry and services during
the 1974-77 Plan and the rate of unemployment in non-agricultural sectors
was reduced to about 18 percent in 1977 and 14 percent in 1981.
Considerable efforts to create employment will still be needed in coming
years, however, to cope with existing unemployment and underemployment and
absorb the additional labor force. Another problem facing Algeria is the
shortage of skilled labor in many sectors. This shortage is likely to
persist for many years in spite of considerable training efforts.
Medium-term prospects
17.      Algeria's economic and financial prospects depend on three main
factors: the level of hydrocarbon export revenues; the level and sectoral
composition of the country's investment; and the pace of improvement in the
efficiency of the economic system. Bank staff projections take into account
the policy framework for conservation of hydrocarbon resources, which has
been introduced by Algeria in 1980 and confirmed in the 1980-84 PlanI/.
L/ The projections of oil exports are consistent with the current
production quota of 725 thousand bl/day alloted to Algeria in the OPEC
agreement of March 1983.



- 6 -
With a view to maintaining a long term growth in hydrocarbon export volumes
and ensuring the energy supply of the country, the policy objective consiots
of simultaneously establishing the appropriate levels of hydrocarbon exports
and external borrowing for balancing financing needs, while reducing
moderately the debt burden from its current level. In this context, it is
projected that Algeria would maintain an overall GDP growth rate of about
5.7 percent duri.ag 1983-85, based on a relatively rapid growth of the
non-hydrocarbon industry (about 8 percent). During 1986-1990, GDP growth
would remain relativeLy rapid in non hydrocarbon sectors. Within the
constraints of the policy framework, and assuming further improvements in
efficiency of capital, investment would grow by about 4.3 percent a year in
real terms during 1983-85 and decelerate further in 1986-90.  The ratio of               u
investment to GDP at constant prices would then decline to 40 percent in
1982 and 32 percent in 1990. This would allow consumption to grow rapidly,
especiaLly in the second half of the 1980s, at rates close to the ones
observed in the 1970s (see Annex I, p.4).
18.      The projections are strongly influenced by the assumption on oil
and gas prices. The long term growth of Algeria's crude oil prices is based
on the assumption of a slightly positive price growth in real terms from the
1983 actual level of about $30 per barrel, in accordance with current Bank
forecasts. It also includes a progressive recovery of past price
differentials relative to heavier crudes. The gas price projections reflect
the gains obtained in recent negotiations towards alignment with the price
of oil. based on these price assumptions and on export volumes consistent
with the conservation policy, Algeria's external financing needs would
average US$4 billion per year for the medium-term 84-86, on a commitment
basis, equal to average cormitments during 1975-1980. The financing needs
could probably be met mostly by suppliers and buyers credits linked to
future projects, and by some official credits. During the second half of
the 80s, when gas export volumes would become important, projections
indicate that the balance of payments deficit would decline somewhat.
19.      The growth prospects of the Algerian economy would be substantially
different if Algeria's oil and gas prices were to remain constant in real
terms over the rest of the decade. In order to prevent excessive current
balance of payments deficits and keep a debt service level close to the one
of the previous scenario, imports growth would have to be reduced.
Consequently, instead of growing at an average of 5.7 percent in 1983-85 and
6.L percent in 1986-90, GDP would increase by an average of only 4.6 percent
and 5.0 percent respectively, leaving little growth of GNP per capita. This
alternative scenario shows the degree of sensitivity of Algeria's economic
growth to oil and gas revenues prospects, if constraints concerning the size
of balance of payments deficits and external debt are not to be relaxed. It
confirms the long term necessity, already perceived by the Algerian
authorities, to diversify exports growth towards other products than oil and
gas and their derivatives, and to persist in the efforts to raise efficiency
of investment in industry and agriculture.



-7-
External Debt
20.      At the end of 1982, Algeria's total external debt outstanding and
disbursed was estimated at USM13.7 billion (USl18.3 billion including
undisbursed) equivalent to 29.4 percent of GDP. The debt service ratio
increased from 13 percent in 1974 to nearly 23.7 percent in 1981. Due to
the significant decline of oil prices, it increased further to about
29.5 percent in 1982. It is expected to decline to approximately 22 percent
by 1985. At the end of 1982, the portion of Algeria's total debt
outstanding and disbursed owed to the Bank was 2.4 percent. Based on total
external borrowing (commitments and disbursements) projected above, this
share would remain below 5 percent over the medium term.  Algeria remains
creditworthy for Bank lending.
PART II: BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ALGERIA
21.      The Bank has made twenty-five loans to Algeria totaling
$1,201 million. After three early loans (two before Independence) there was
an interval of about nine years when the Bank had no on-going projects in
Algeria. Lending resumed in FY73, and in the period June 1973 to July 1980
twenty-two loans totaling $1,120.5 million were approved. The bulk of these
loans were in the sectors of education (focussed on meeting the demand for
skilled manpower) and infrastructure (highways, railway, ports, water supply
and sewerage, and power), where Bank lending aimed at soLving development
bottlenecks in tagging sectors. There were in addition two loans to
industry (one for industrial finance, and the other for cement); two in
agriculture (for irrigation and meat production); and a technical assistance
loan for rural development. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank
loans as of October 31, 1983. As a result of the restructuring of the
Bank's portfolio in Algeria mentioned in paragraph 24 below, the current
principal as of October 31, 1983 was about $731 million.
22.      Our economic and sector work dialogue with the Government led to a
basic economic report in 1966, and several studies on economic development
and prospects in the 1970's, complemented by sectoral analyses in
agriculture and industry. This was followed most recently by a study of
enterprise financing and the banking system in 1980, and a review of the
current development plan, initiated the same year. Future economic work is
likely to be focussed on an assessment of medium term prospects, and their
implications for overall economic management.
23.      From 1980, Algerian authorities and the Bank were increasingly
concerned by the low rate of disbursements on Bank loans resulting from
pervasive problems affecting project impleientation.  Disbursement ratesl/
on loans to Algeria declined steadily from about 20 percent in FY76 to a low
of 5.3 percent in FY80, and were substantially below Regional and Bank-wide
1/ Disbursement rates are defined as total amounts disbursed during a
fiscal year divided by total undisbursed amounts at the beginning of the
same fiscal year.



- 8 -
averages. Procurement-related issues, the slow pace of contract approval
and award, and delays in critical decisions (eg. on the construction of the
steel complex which was crucial for the economic justification of the Jijel
port project) were the principal reasons for slow project implementation.
24.      In the last three years there has therefore been emphasis on
improving project implementation and disbursement performance. At the
Annual Meetings in 1980 and 1981, and in other high-level contacts
(particuLarly two Country Implementation Reviews in November 1981, and
June 1982), agreement was reached to improve project performance through
specific measures, monitoring and follow-up, and cancellation by mutual
agreement of projects and project components where it did not appear likely
that progress or resolution would be forthcoming soon. Following
cancellations of about $262 million in FY80, 81 and 82, and about
$42 million in FY84, the Bank's portfolio in Algeria was trimmed to
10 projects. Progress on the remaining projects continues to be monitored
closely. Additional corrective action is being discussed with the
Government, as regards education projects, and is expected to lead to
further canceLLations of about $115 million. Disbursements in the highways
and sewerage sectors have started to accelerate as major contracts begin
execution.
25.      In the course of discussion of the existing portfolio, it was
agreed with the Government that: i) project preparation should focus on
resolving major project and sector issues (such as procurement and financial
policy objectives) at an early stage of the project cycle; ii) to avoid
delays in project start-up particular care should be taken to ensure that
projects are submitted for Bank financing only after key actions necessary
for prompt initiation of project execution have been taken; and iii) project
preparation should be concentrated in sectors where there are no major
policy obstacles, and where there is full commitment to Bank standards and
procedures. With the adoption of these principles, preparation work on
several projects was discontinued. It has also been agreed that future
lending would for the time being be focused on infrastructure projects
(telecommunications, water supply, transport, and power). These operations
would be useful vehicles for improving public enterprise eEficiency, with
tne Bank playing a role in reinforcing analytical rigor, institution
building, and development planning. Telecommunications and water supply
particularly represent sectors in which investments have ' %ged relative to
other sectors. The water supply project being prepared ix designed to help
increase water production, expand and improve water distribution, and detect
and repair leaks in the Greater Algiers area. A proposed highways project
is expected to address the question of bottlenecks on important transport
corridors, as well as to strengthen institutional capacity. A possible
third power project could comprise a time-slice of the SONELGAZ investment
program. A port project is being prepared to meet the growing demands of
general cargo traffic in the eastern part of the country.
2b.      The provision of technical assistance and institution-building
support is a major objective of the Bank's strategy in Algeria, to which the



- 9 -
Government attaches special importance. The aim is to assist the Government
in improving economic, sector and financial management, as well as project
preparation and implementation. These factors have been prominent in the
Bank's economic dialogue with the Government. Previous projects have
included technical assistance to enhance the appraisal capability of the
Algerian Development Bank and improve auditing of national companies. One
of the major components of the Algiers sewerage project (Ln. 1545-AL) is the
creation of a water supply and sewerage authority for Greater Algiers and
tne provision of technical assistance for its management and operations.
Under the fifth education project (Ln. 1803-AL) significant technical
assistance is proposed in the areas of vocational training and
apprenticeship. Technical assistance would equally be a major feature of
the present project, and would be directed mainly to strengthening
management, accounting systems, planning, and project implementation in the
telecommunications sector.
PART III - THE TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR
Background
27.      Algeria is the second largest country in Africa covering an area of
slightly less than 2.4 million km-. The country extends 2,400 km east to
west and 2,000 km north to south. It had an estimated resident population
of about 20.6 million in January 1983. Approximately 95 percent of the
population inhabits the narrow littoral zone bordered by the Nediterranean
and the Atlas mountains. The remaining 5 percent of the population lives in
82 percent of the country's land area, the highlands and Saharan zones.
Agricultural production, services, governmental units and industry are
concentrated in the coastal zone, while the economy of the south centers on
the exploitation of hydrocarbons.  AdministrativeLy, Algeria is divided in
31 wilayas (provinces), 160 dairas (districts), and 704 communes.
Sector Institutions
28.      The telecommunications sector is administered by the Directorate
General of Telecommunications (DGT) within the Ministry of Posts and
Telecommunications (P&T), which exercises the national monopolies for these
services. P&T also comprises directorates general for postal services,
common support services, general administration, human and financial
resources and training, and for programming, planning, organization, and
information systems. DGT, which employed some 15,800 staff at end 1982,
installs, mostly on force account, aud operates the public domestic and
international telephone, telex, telegraph and data transmission networks.
It also operates special telecommunication services, such as maritime radio
and provides circuits for the Algerian Radio and Television (RTA), the
Ministry of Interior and the Army; it however authorizes a few large
organizations, such as the airline and railway, to operate their own
systems. DGT has four directorates: for programming, planning, and
industrial relations, for switching, for transmission, and for operations,



- 10 -
commercial activities and tariffs. It also has some operational units which
provide common services to the Ministry, such as procurement, central
stores, research, testing and inspection. In 1979, seven regional
operational directorates for telecommunications were established. Each is
responsible for coordinating and monitoring DGT's deveLopment and operations
within several wilayas. Despite some shortcomings, which are described
below in greater detail, DGT is a sound organization which has been steadily
improving.
29.      A manufacturing industry was established in 1974, to help Algeria
become less dependent on imports for the production and installation of
telecommunications equipment. The electronic division of SONELEC (the
national company which manufactures electric and electronic equipment)
produces small-capacity pair cables in Algiers, as well as one type of
small-diameter coaxial cable, which it lays and joints. It has also
recently started producing crossbar switching equipment and telephone sets
in Tlemcen. In January 1983, the Tlemcen manufacturing complex was
transferred to a newly created National Telecommunications Enterprise
(ENTC). SONATITE, a national company under the aegis of P&T, installs,
connects, and maintains private automatic branch exchanges and subscriber
terminal installations, and installs the switching equipment produced at
Tlemcen.
30.      Specialized trainirg in telecommunications is provided in
institutions overseen by P&T. The central P&T school in Algiers trains
about 600 students a year for middle and upper level non-engineering staff,
junior technicans, and general maintenance staff. The Telecommunications
Institute of Oran, which has a capacity of 1,000 students (to be expanded to
1,300 by 1986), trains higher level staff, including engineers. The
institute benefits from assistance provided by the International
Telecommunications Union under UNDP financing, and some of its teaching
staff are financed by bilateral assistance, although national teaching staff
are being trained in increasing numbers. Regional schools at Constantine,
OuargLa, and under construction at Saida, would train about 750 mid-level
operational and installation staff, and are expected to operate at full
capacity by 198o; shorc term training is being provided on a regular basis
in rented premises. The on-going effort to expand training will address
over the medium-term one of the principal constraints affecting the sector
in the past: a shortage of qualified manpower, constraining P&T's ability
to expand the network and services at the planned rate, and to ensure its
satisfactory operation.
Availability of Telecommunications Services
31.      As of December 31, 1982, Algeria had a telephone density of 2.0
direct exchange lines (DELs) per 100 inhabitants, which is slightly above
the average of neighboring countries, but only one half to one third of the
figure for countries with a comparable GNP per capita, e.g. Turkey or
Mexico. Telephone service was concentrated in urban centers which had an
average telepnone density of 4.7 DELs per 100 inhabitants. By contrast,



- 11 -
telephone density in the rest of the country was only 1.4 DELs per 100
inhabitants. All towns with a population of more than 5,000 persons have
some local and long distance telephone services, as do 70 percent of towns
with a population between 2,500 and 5,000 persons. Hfowever a large
proportion of towns with a population of less than 2,500, which account for
a sigaificant portion of the country's total population, have no telephone
service. Although the yearly growth in DELs installed has accelerated
markedly each year since 1979, there is a large backlog of installation.
Even at the high rate of installation reached in 1982, it would still take
five years to clear the current waiting list for telephones.
32.      The telephone network system provides insufficient and, in some
cases, poor service. A lack of timely and adequately planned investment,
coupled with a rapid growth in demand and heavy utilization of existing
telephones, are the principal causes of the existing deficiencies. Although
a dial tone is obtained relatively quickly, about 5 percent of local calls,
20 percent of long distance calls originating from the interior, and 50
percent of other long distance calls fail due to equipment congestion or
malfunction. Equipment congestion is caused mostly by lack of timely
installation of transmission and trunk switching equipment, and by the very
high utilization rate of existing equipment. On the average, each DEL
experiences one breakdown per year and only 74 percent of the faults are
cleared within two days of being reported, which is considered low.
Sector Constraints and Investment Plans
33.      The major constraint remains the rate at which P&T can improve its
planning and management capabilities, its productivity, the quality of the
services, and meet construction requirements, given a rapidly expanding
network. The Government recognizes the need to address this issue, and
efforts to do so have been initiated, principally through the reorganization
of P&T's structure and functions in early 1983. The project would reinforce
these efforts through technical assistance and training abroad (see
paragraph 48). Given the long lead time before improvements in management,
operations, and planniag of large specialized services can be felt, the
proposed project would be a step in a longer-term process of improving
performance and ensuring the sound development of the sector.
34.      Sector investment plans are incorporated in the National Plan.  The
current Third Plan covers 1980 to 1984, and includes an investment program
to sLgnificantly improve the availability and quality of telecommunications
services in Algeria, using the latest available techniques. DGT has made
major decisions recently, in particular, concerning the rapid introduction,
from 1984 on, of electronic digital techniques in the switching and
transmissions systems. This would represent a major technological advance
over the crossbar switching system used in present exchanges. Based on
these decisions, and on DGr's performance in the first three years of the
current Plan, the Government has authorized P&T to expand its investment
program over an extended three-year period after the Third Plan, until early
1988. Under its present program, of which the proposed project is a



- 12 -
time-slice, P&T would move towards its sector objectives by; a)
significantly expanding local networks at rates of 15 to 20 percent
annually, with proportionately more resources directed outside the main
urban areas, adding about 600,000 lines between 1980 and 1988, and thus
bringing the number of DELs per 100 inhabitants from 2 to 4 over the project
period; b) automating the present manual systems in rural areas, and
providing new exchanges in all administrative centers; c) providing
telephone service for the first time at over 90U isolated locations; d)
improving the quality of local and long distance service through the
installacion of additional equipment, and better system planning and
maintenance; e) upgrading, restructuring, and expanding the long distance
network to handle the forecast increase in traffic, with the particular goal
of incorporating the new development region on the High Plateau; f)
improving DGr's management, planning, accounting procedures, and overall
productivity; g) completing the investment program carried over from the
Second Plan; and h) increasing tariffs, so as to free resources for use in
sectoral development, or elsewhere in the economy. The estimated total cost
of D6T's 1980-88 investment plan is DA 11.1 billion (W2.4 billion), with
foreign costs of DA 5.4 billion ($1.2 billion).
Financial Policies in the Sector
35.      Existing legislation requires P&T to earn revenues sufficient to at
least cover operating expenses, including depreciation and debt service.
For financing capital expenditures P&T is allowed to borrow abroad (only for
suumarine cables and satellite communication equipmeat) and to draw
long-term Treasury loans on standard terms to cover all needs over net
internal cash generation. Current terms for Treasury loans, which also
apply to the productive sectors, are 20 years final maturity, including 4
years grace, and an interest rate of 2.5 percent per annum. During
1974-1982, net internal cash generation averaged 26 percent of total
construction requirements.
36.      Although past financial performance was weak, measured by
traditional yardsticks, due to the financial policies followed, the trend
since 1980 shows a gradual improvement in the financial performance of DGT.
Operating ratios averaged 86 percent in the period 1979-82, while net
internal cash generation contributed 33 percent of construction
requirements. Despite considerable annual increases in domestic prices,
because of tariff increases in 1975 and an increase of 200 percent in
telephone subscribers in the period 1975-82, DGT was able to maintain a
fairly level financial performance. As a result of the Government's
increased emphasis on financial self-sufficiency in selected sectors,
teLecommunications tariffs were increased again, by an average 55 percent
(the base call charge was increased by 50 percent) with effect from February
1, 1983. Net internal cash generation is expected to increase significantly
and net earnings are expected to show satisfactory progress in the period
1983-90 (by comparison with the period 1979-83), as the effects of the
tariff increase and efficiency improvements begin to be felt. Net internal
cash generation as a percentage of construction requirements is expected to



- 13 -
average 59 percent over the project period, and co increase fur-her in the
years following project completion. DGT's reliance on Treasury loans would
be correspondingly reduced. The Government has agreed to ensure that the
telecommunications sector would finance a reasonable proportion of
investmenc costs through net internal cash generation (Loan Agreement,
Section 4.05 (a)). In this context, the Government has assigned a ratio of
net internal cash generation to construction requirements of about 50
percent, through 1988, and higher ratios in the years thereafter, as a
sectoral objective. The corresponding rate of return on average net fixed
assets in service would increase from about 4 percent in 1982 to about 11
percent in 1983 and thereafter. DGT will also communicate annually to the
Bank, before September 3U of each year, its plans for meeting target net
internal cash generation levels over the next year, after reviewing capital
expenditures incurred or planned (Loan Agreement, Section 4.05 (b)).
37.      The financial performance objectives set out above are
satisfactory, and address the two fundamental concerns of the Algerian
Government: i) the need to increase the contribution of individual sectors
to national savings and free Treasury resources for other needs, and ii) the
importance of emphasizing productivity improvements as well as price
adjustments in setting financial performance policies. The forecast
financial statements indicate that annual debt service coverage will be
satisfactory at an average of 3.1 during the project period. The Government
will charge all interest and other charges on the proposed Bank loan, as
well as repayments of principal, against the part of P&T's budget relating
to DGT (Loan Agreement, Section 4.06).
t
38.     During the project period, the tariff structure will be examined to
establish the extent to which tariffs diverge from the incremental costs of
providing services, and thus assess the implications on economic efficiency
in the use of existing plant and new investment. It will help identify the
user groups charged at more, or less, favorable rates, analyse their use of
the services, and compare tariffs with the cost of services. The study will
be carried out by January 31, 1986, as part of the technical assistance
program under the project, and in accordance with terms of reference agreed
with the Bank. The conclusions of the study would be useful in deciding on
further action on tariffs, as required in the course of DGT's operations and
development.
39.      In general, DGT's receivables situation is excellent, and is being
monitored very closely. At end-1982, arrears were only DA 121 million, or
1.5 monchs of billing. Suspension and disconnection policies for private
subscribers are strictly enforced, and Government agencies can be forced to
pay through direct deduction from their Treasury accounts, even when budget
allocations for telecommunications usage are exhausted. The only
significant billing and collection problem relates to the unpaid bills of
Radio Television Alggrienne (RTA), which has used circuit facilities from
P&T's domestic satellite system since 1975 without making payments, in the
absence of an agreed tariff schedule. However, a satisfactory agreement was
reached in 1980 between P&T and RTA on a tariff schedule, and P&T has billed



- 1.4 -
RTA for a total amount of DA 52 million through 1982. The Government has
recently informed the Bank that a repayment schedule had been agreed for
RTA's arrears, and in future, prompt settlement of bills would be ensured
for current usage.
40.      The Government has informed the Bank that the Inspection Generale
des Finances (IGF) of the Ministry of Finance will carry out the external
audits of P&T's accounts and that its reports wiLl be submitted to the
Bank. The IGF has been accepted as the independent auditor in previous Bank
projects in Algeria. During negotiations, assurances were obtained from the
Government that: a) audits will be carried out in accordance with generally
accepted auditing principles; and b) P&T's audited financial statements
would be submitted within six months after the end of each fiscal year,
starting 1984 (Loan Agreement, Section 4.04).
PART IV - THE PROJECT
41.      The proposed loan would be the first telecommunications operation
financed by the Bank in Algeria. The preparation of the proposed project
was financed by UNDP and carried out by consultants under the supervision of
DGT and the Bank. The project was appraised in January/February 1980 with a
brief update in June 1980. Negotiations were heLd in December 1980/January
1981, following which Board presentation was delayed pending final agreement
on the negotiated documents. Subsequently, the appraisal was updated in
March/April 198J.  A fresh round of negotiations was held in September
1983. The Algerian delegation was led by Mr. Oualitsen, of the Ministry of
Finance. The main features of tne project are described in the Loan and
Project Summary and in Annex III of this Report. A map (no. IBRD 15110 RI)
is attached describing the telecommunications network. A Staff Appraisal
Report entitled "Algeria: First Telecommunications Project" and dated
November 22, 1983, is being distributed separately.
Project Objectives and Description
42.      The proposed project covers a time slice of DGT's current
development program, and consists of high priority works to be realized
during tne 1983-87 period, as well as a program to improve management of the
sector. It is designed to assist in expanding and modernizing the basic
telecommunications system through the construction and extension of local
and regional networks in urban and rural areas, the automation of manual
networks and their connection to the existing national automated network,
tne servicing of new areas previously not covered, and the strengthening of
P&T's management and planning capability. The proposed project includes the
following elements: (a) the construction of 5 long distance underground
coaxial cable links carrying multiple channel transmission systems, which
will increase the capacity of the trunk network in ten wilayas; (b) the
automation of about 400 small capacity exchanges in rural areas of
22 wilayas, and the connection of some 42,000 new distant subscribers; (c)



- 15 -
the expansion of local networks in about 450 large- and medium-size cities
in order to accommodate approximately 310,000 new subscribers; (d) the
setting up of about 600 public call offices (PCOs) in rural and isolated
zones now without access to telecommunications services; (e) provision of
transport and handling equipment, power equipment, and tools for network
construction at large centers; and (f) a management improvement program
(MIP) to be carried out with the help of technical assistance (about 170
man-months of experts) and training abroad (about 100 man-months), which
would also include a tariff study, management and organization of
telecommunications development and operations, development planning and
*           engineering, financial management, and accounting.
Project Execution
43.      The project will be implemented by DG1, mostly through force
account and installation contracts with suppliers, with limited technical
assistance in specialized areas. OGT has been handling general project
management satisfactorily for some time. Improved planning and construction
methodologieb, and more effective control of implementation would be
introduced under the HIP, with the assistance of consultants and expert
advisers in local cable, transmission, and switching systems. During
negotiations, agreement has been reached with the Government on a set of
physical performance and efficiency indicators, to monitor progress in
construction of facilities and availability of services under P&T's
investment program, and improvements in the productivity of the
telecommunications branch during the program period. DGT's engineers have
prepared or are preparing engineering designs and technical specifications
for all equipment, and its staff will install most of the equipment. DGT
will also supervise civil works done by local contractors, carry out
acceptance and commissioning tests, and prepare bidding documents. SONATITE
will lay and commission most cables and install some cable ducts. Project
completion is expected by June 30, 1988, including six months for
supervision of (and training in) operation and maintenance of complex
transmission systems, during the guarantee period of these systems.
Preparation for project execution is advanced: bidding documents have been
prepared for important concracts to be let under the project, and calling
for tenders has been completed for about 20 percent, by value, of project
items. Contracts accounting for about 10 percent of the loan would have
been awarded by loan signature. Tendering is expected to be completed by
mid-1985 for most items.
Project Cost and Financing Plan
44.      Total project cost is estimated at about DA 1,437 million
($312.4 million), including a foreign exchange component of DA 589 million
($127.7 million), or approximately 40 percent of the total. Physical
contingencies are estimated at 4 percent. Price contingencies are based on
annual escalations of 7.7 percent and 7.0 percent in 1984 and 1985-86 for
foreign costs, and of 10 percent in 1984 and 9 percent in 1985-87 for local
costs. The local costs include customs duties on imported goods and



- 16 -
services and turnover taxes representing about 20 percent of estimated
project costs. The cost of technical assistance and training is estimated
at $12,000 per man-month for short-term consultants; $9,500 for longer term
expert advisers, and 4,000 per man-month for training abroad, including the
man-month rates as applicable, reimbursable items such as travel, and
suDsistence and other allowances in country of service or stay.
45.      The project would be financed from the same sources as DGT's
investment program over the project implementation period (see
paragraph 34). The program's financing requirements from 1983 to 1988 are
expected to amount to the equivalent of about $1,959 million, of which
$1,1l1 million (57 percent) would be provided by net internal cash                     0
generation; $343 million (17 percent) from Treasury loans; $217 million (11
percent) from other foreign borrowings, mostly supplierst credits;
$24 millLon or I percent from the Credit Industriel et Commercial at 7.75
percent for seven years; and $135 million (7 percent) from users'
contributions and Government special programs, essentially provided by the
Government and SONATRACH, the oil company. The Bank loan of $128 million,
wnich covers the remaining 7 percent of the program's financing
requirements, would finance 100 percent of the foreign cost of imported
goods and services under the project, and includes the capitalized front-end
fee of $0.3 million. The local project costs are estimated at DA 848.2
million ($184.4 million). The project represents about 19 percent of DGT's
total investment from 1983 to 1988, and the Bank loan about 17 percent of
its foreign exchange component.
Procurement and Disbursement
4b.      Materials and equipment to be financed by the proposed Bank loan
would be generally obtained through international competitive bidding in
accordance with the Bank's guidelines. However, small contracts of less
than $75,000 each and for Less than $90u,000 in the aggregate, for goods
(such as special transport and handling facilities, sundry equipment or
tools) which are required for early delivery, may be procured through
international shopping. If cables, switching or transmission equipment are
procured from local manufacturers, under ICB, local preference would apply
uncer Bank guidelines, and corresponding disbursements from the Bank loan
would be against 100 percent of ex-factory prices.
47.      Disbursement would be made against 100 percent of foreign
expenditures for imported goods and services, and 100 percent of foreign
costs of consultants' services and overseas training. Retroactive financing
of up to $4,000,000 would be provided for initial payments made after
June 1, 1983 to contractors against works relating esentially to coaxial
cable and rural systems under the project. Disbursements are expected to
start rapidly after signature of the loan, as contracting is in an advanced
stage (see paragraph 43). It is expected that the loan would be fully
disDursed by June 30, 1989.



- 17 -
Mlanagement Improvement Program
48.      As noted earlier (see paragraphs 28 and 43), DGT is a sound
organization which has developed the ability to prepare its investment
program and execute most system development work substantially with its own
means. Nevertheless, P&T and DGT are keen to enhance their capabilities in
all areas. With thteir full support, the preparation study financed by UNDP,
for which the Bank was executing agency, made a thorough assessment of the
existing situation, developed a comprehensive plan of action, and defined
the outside assistance required to implement the proposed measures.
Following the study, a working group was formed at the highest level within
P&T, to prepare a comprehensive management improvement program (MIP). As a
first result of the working group's recommendations, P&T's responsibilities
were recently re-defined, and its central administration reorganized in
January 1983. These measures followed the lines discussed earlier during
project appraisal. It remains now to implement the more detailed measures
included in the HIP, which would provide for strengthening and improving
P&T's general administration, financial management and accounting system,
its operational, planning and development capabilities, staff training, and
the creation of new services such as a specialized center for applied
research and technical control. The proposed Bank loan would finance part
of this program through its technical assistance component, which covers
DGT's essential requirements; and would cover 100 percent of the foreign
exchange cost ($2 million) of about 170 man-months of consultants and
experts, and 100 man-months of staff training abroad. The HIP will be
commenced no later than March 1, 1984 and completed by March 31, 1986. The
technical assistance under the project would be carried out in accordance
with terms of reference and a time-table agreed with the Bank, over a period
of approximately two years, and would cover the following areas:
(a)      management and organization of telecommunications development,
planning and implementation, and operations (2 consultants for a
total of about 20 man-months, and about 15 man-months of staff
training);
(b)      technical guidelines and fundamental plans for local and long
distance network construction and operation; traffic and service
quality analyses; and development of new services
(3 consultants/experts for a total of about 24 man-months, and
about 15 man-months of staff training);
(c)      development planning and management, detailed planning and
construction methodology, and supervision of program/project
execution in switching, transmission and local network techniques
(5 consultants/experts for a total of about 45 man-months and about
30 man-months of staff training);
(d) design of an integrated management information system,
including computer programming, and assistance in implementing
it (2 consultants for a total of about 24 man-months and about
10 man-months of staff training);



- 18 -
(e)  introduction of an accrual accounting system, separation of
the accounts of the telecommunizations and postal/financial
services, updating of the fixed assets register, introduction
of proper inventory control and valuation procedures, and
design and implementation of an accounting staff training
program (4 consultants and experts for a total of about 44
man-months and about 20 man-months of staff training);
(f) review of the telecommunications tariffs (2 consultants for a
total of about 8 man-months and about 6 man-months of staff
training); and
(g)  unallocated to eventually complement the above services, about
10 man-months of consultant/experts and about 4 man-months of
staff training.
49.           The main objective of the MIP would be to allow the
telecommunications sector to be run on a more commercial and efficient
basis. The Government is fully committed to this objective, and has agreed
to introduce, effective January 1, 1986, an accrual and cost accounting
system, which will provide for full separation of the accounts of the
telecommunications and postal/financial branches (Loan Agreement,
Section 4.03(b)). Training to be carried out under the HIP would take place
in existing centers or, wherever appropriate, overseas.
Benefits, Risks, and Justification
50.           As noted before, the availability of telecommunications
services in Algeria is at one third to one half of the level of countries at
a comparable state of development. Benefits from the expansion of
telecommunications services foreseen under the expanded Third Plan, as well
as from improved quality of service, would be several-fold. Benefits to
subscribers include provision of services to a large number of persons
currently waiting for telephones, greater reliability and quality of
telephone services, and alleviation of congestion at peak hours. Benefits
to the economy include greater productivity of the transport and productive
sectors due to better circulation of information, better economic
integration of areas remote from the main economic centers, and the freeing
of resources for utilization in other sectors through improved productivity
in the telecommunications sector and its greater contribution to national
savings. The project is not expected to adversely affect the environment or
public health in any way. On the contrary, through the more efficient
utilization of vehicles and fuel, improved delivery of health services and
emergency interventions, as a result of better telephone and telex services,
a reduction in vehicle use for personal travel could be achieved, while
improving the present level of business communication, particularly in
Algiers and Oran. This will result in some energy conservation and
reduction of pollution.



- 19 -
5L.      The planned rate of growth in telecommunications services is
significantly higher for the less developed wilayas. Growth would also be
higher outside urban centers. A better access to telephone services in
remote and rural areas should ensure a more equitable distribution of
services and, in the long run, increased opportunities for these areas to
participate in the social and economic life of the country.
52.      The proposed project is part of the least cost solution to the
objectives of the Third National Plan in the telecommunications sector. The
internal financial rate of return of the approved investment program for
telecommunications is estimated at approximately 15 percent. Available
evidence, nowever, suggests the economic rate of return is substantially
higher; it has been estimated at 38 percent under reasonable assumptions.
53.      The project offers limited risk.  The principal risk is that of
delayed physical implementation. However, since telecommunications projects
comprise a large number of relatively independent units, deLay in the
completion of one compunent does not generally prevent use of other assets.
A sensitivity analysis on the economic rate of return indicated that a 10
percent increase in capital expenditures would result in an economic rate of
return of about 35 percent, while a 10 percent decrease in operating
revenues would result in an economic rate of return of about 34 percent. A
combination of these factors plus a 10 percent increase in operating
expenses would result in an economic rate of return of about 31 percent.
54.      This risk, and the related risk of slow disbursements have been
minimized by ensuring an advanced stage of project preparation before Board
presentation, as agreed with the Government (paragraph 25 above). In
particular, procurement is very advanced; calling for tenders is expected to
be completed by mid-1985 for most items, and award of most contracts by
end-1985. The risk of slow implementation is also minimized by the
perception of both the Government and the Bank that P&T is a strong ministry
with a high level of commitment to the project.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
55.      The draft Loan Agreement between the Democratic and Popular
Republic of Algeria and the Bank and the Report of the Committee provided
for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being
distributed separately to the Executive Directors.
56.      Special features of the draft Loan Agreement are referred to in the
text and in Section III of Annex III.
57.      I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.



- 20 -
PART VI - Recomaendations
58.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
November 30, 1983



BEST COPY AVAILABLE
ANNEX I
T ANLI ,                               Page  1  of  5
4tDIL                 - UScAl IE ATS 1                    E         U
ALZIIL4 " ~~ICr                              gw         v o  
asu~                           kIvUMkS             13136WN XtS^) hL
17501k     197th   l             it. 7W      RTC 0  *A   UT. AIKICA A CARIT
aTiAL                            2311.7      3311.7      331.7 
AORICULTURAL                      441.4      442.2       438.1
O? S  CmI  Cal)                      530.0      750.0      2140.0           1340.0                   mama.2
(WIKLOUR     OP OA UIYIVAtLRNI)   321.0      280.0        14.0            110e 4      1407.1
INA2      =VTAL *'LTODSII:
POKUILTIOWNNI,-TRAR (TOOAM)  10300.0    15746.0    19302.0                   .
UIUAN POpILTION (1 OP TOTAL)      30.4       54.0        44.1             47.4                      59
POPULATION FRWCOTI1
POITIION IN THAIn 2000 (MI)                             38.3
STATIONARY FOPULATION (N)                              111.1
TEA STAIOHART POrP. IIAQ3                              2120
POPLATION DESI3!
PRQ. I.                           4.5        5.8         7.9             36.0                     15.6
PE SQ. E. AGRI LUD               24.2       11.1        43.2            449.0                     93.2
POPUATION AE STIACTURS (3)
0-14 TR$                        43.7       45.1        47.3             43.9                     40.1
15-64 YT                         52.4       47.6        49.2             52.8                     55.6
55 AM  imo                        3.9        4.3         3.5              3.3                      4.1
POPUATION MOM  RATE (2)
TOTAL                             2.1        2.4         3.2              2.9                      2.3
AlA                               5.2        3.5         5.6              4.6                      3.7
0C3   BHIRn  ATS (PER TH)          30.6       48.1        41.1             42.5                     31.5
CRUMD ODTH RATE (PR TOUB)          22.9       16.7        13.4             12.0                      3.1
GROSS RUEPWUCTION RATS               .6       316          3.6              3.0                      2.0
FAILY PLASTIC
ACCETR. ANNUAL (THAS)              ..
USIRS (s OF NARRIC  U)             ..         .....
TIMEX Or FOD PROD. TER CAPITA
C1969-71-100)                     110.0      104.0        81.0             97.5                    113.0
pE CAPITA SUPPY OF
CALORIES (2 OF AREUIEN?")        76.0       76.0       101.0            102.3                    111.3
PROTENS (CGRAS PE DAY)           49.0       43.0        64.0             72.0                     67.9
OF WVIC  ANIMAL AIM PULS1       L1.0        11.0       I A4.Oe          17.8                     34. 1
HILO (A  S 1-4) DEUTH RATz         38.8       29.7        18.0             15.2                      ! 9
MATH
LIFC XPECT. AT BIRUS   (TAAM)      47.0        52.7       56.4             57.2                     64.6
INFANT NORT. SATE (P0 THOD)       165.0      144.0       114.3            104.2                     62.5
aCCESS TO SAFE VATER (EPOP)
TOni.                              ..         ..        77.0Jd           59.3                     64.3
URBAN                              .         1 84.0      10/             64.9                     77.3
RWPAL                              ..         ..        50.01G           37.5                     44.3
ACCES TO CCRETA DISPOS4L
(3 or POPULATION)
TOTAL                                                                                               I 9.0  4.0hl  ..  54.6
uRI                                ..       13.0        60.071             ..                     69.3
R UAL                              ..        6.0       4O.dj               . .                    :.9B
POPLATSOl PER PHsCIw             5530.0     7370.0      2650.0           3536.0                   1776.0
Por. PER NURSING PERSO                      2730.0       740.0           1820.7                   1012.2
Pop. Pu  OSPTSL                                          D47
TOTAL                           310.0      340.0       380.0/e          643.3                    477.0
*                   IIIURB                           120.0/.    220.0       330.O7l          345.0                    667.5
RURAL                              ..         ..          ..           2462.0                   1921.6
ADMISSIONS    HOSPITAL               ..       14.3        20.1/c           26.4                     27.2
AURAGE SIZE Or IWCUNLO
TOTL                               ..         5.9/f
URI                                ..         5.67        ...
RUA                                ..         6.1i7                        .                        .
AURcaS No. OF PRsoNS/R
TOTAL                              ..         ..
URB..                                        2.6/f
RURAL                              ..         ..
ACCESS T0 ELEr-  a( CW ULINCS)
TOTAL                              ..       34.0/f        ..             46.2
RBAN                               ..        74.07        ..             77.6                        .
RURAL                              ..       I2.7if        ..             16.1



BEST COPY AVAILABLE
-22 -                                     AM=ZJ I
T A I; t I  L*4Page  b   0   5
IL0alU           ~~- ICUIL 20lttI  T    -
N0RT                      t0DOT 7 IT EUTITO) l
1,ogk       19,.Lk  *0TUAYRL^T     N. AFRICA I N0^   I AS AT -AT,  ITA * 0
ADJUBTED CIMIOLLINT NATIOK
PRINARYi  TOTAL                    40 0        70.0        95.0              09.0                     105.0
Mg                      55.0        9.0        101.0             104.1                      100.5
MlAL.                   37.0        51.0        11.0              71.4                     101.0
CFOWNATi TOTAL                      *.0        11.0        33.0              41.7                      40.0
NALK                     9.0        16.0        40.0              51.3                      30.0
FMIALE                   0.0         0.0        20.0              21.2                      41l.
VOCATTONAL (C OF UECONDAlR)          2i.0        19.7         I   ,            10.1                       34.0
PUPIL-TEACNIR RATIO
PRIMARY                 ,          3.0                                        1.9                      30.7
RCNDARY                            10.0        21.0        25.0              22.5                      10.7
ADULT LITERACY RATr (2)              10.0jL      206.        33.0              43.3                       79. 
PASszNGER CAREYIIOIIUSARD POP        15. 7       10                            1.0 '                     45.0
RADIO RECIIVER/TNOUSAND POP          55.2        03.3       1707              1UA31                     220.2
TV RCEIVERS/THOUNAD POP               S.          0.0        S1.5              45.0                      100.2
N11WOPAP2R C"UAZ.Y GENERAL
INTERUST) CIRCtLATtON
PCR THA0D POPUATtON                 27.0        20.0        23.1              31.0                      04.1
CINI3A ANNUAL ATTCNDANCI/CAPITA       2.2         0 .         2.5               1.7                       2.9
TOTAL LAROR FORCE (TIMS)           2390.0      2731.0      4022.0
FIALE (PERCENT)                     *.4         6.0         9.1              10.7                      20.0
ACRICULTUIt (PERCENT)              *7.0        50.0        23.4              02.1                       31.3
INDUSTRY (PEReCINT                 12.0        15.0        25.0              27.3                      23.0
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              26.1        19.9        20.5              25.0                       31.3
mALE                               47.1        37.8        37.5              45.4                       09.I
FIALE                               Z.1         2.b         3.7               3.0                      14.0
ECDNMI1C DEPENDENCY ItATIO            2.0         2.1         2.5               1.N                        1.4
Dl3llm DIUUIU!O
PERCENt  OF PRIVATE INCOIE
RECEICED 0?
NIENaST 52 OF HDUSECHL7D
RIiUST 20X 0 UDUSCE00LS                                               .,
LOVEST 25 Olr HOUSCHLD1                                                       .
LOWEST 400  OF OUSsMDO IL
FOVEEW TAWM OROOfP5
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVTY INCOCN
LEVEL (CUS PCR CAPITA)
UltUUt                                                       *.             276.1                      289.1
IUIIAL                               ,.           ,           *e            177.1                     1804.5
UATDtATED RELATIV POVRTY INICOIC
LEMVL (USS PER CAPITA)
UlUlt                                *.                                     400.0                      519.e
RUlAL                                                        -              283. 3372.1
ESTDIATED POP. SELOU ABSMLtE                                                                                                              q
POVERTY 1W003 LEVEL (2)
URSAII                                                       ..              22.0
RURAL                                                                        30.8
NOT AVAILAJLZ
IOT A PLICAOL
NO T E S
/e  The sroup awerames for each Indicator ore populatlonmighted arithltLc _mau.  Covr.. of carntris meg tho
indLcutore deperdm oan amilahility of data and lo not mifor.
lb Unlene otherwim noted. "Data for 1960o  refer to epy year betetn 1959 end 1961; Deat for 1970' beteen 1969 and
1971; and data for "Hoet Recet btetl_te between 1979 and 1901.
Le 1977; /d 19760  /. 1962; It 1066; L  Certain fields of *tedy previouely clasifled under otbhr aeeod level education
of vocational or tachnfic  nature are now reported under Wneral education; thmfeore data are not cemarable witb
thsee of earlier years.
may 1903



BEST COPY AVAILABLE
- 23 -
ANNEX I
ouDermn o socALtacmPa~ge 3 ~of 5
-,-M0ob. b--.. .4 th. 100 . oo.o4.odto.4 doO.11        .0  op0 .-   by 400..              .o   ..IoOo04.  -dLb.. 40.7 -*               al....  ..--I.1-It
o..pt. ot  oo0000.01..Sloo00 .ors.. aoao0.5lb  a400o dma.o. .00.,oallIy.1 40- h-.~ E.0.0..  ..00.-t
-1.0 1    M0 .1000. o0.0  .1 -   u041-.0, -    aKh-   b... .000.5-    mao..y  -M(0  10 -p1.5  Lb. .00  .1         141.. o*l-     6         th.ma   *0    .u  SSS
-f0..  --
IM3 1040  .4.0.                                                                      0.94m0111o-  .o.I.  401"4.d by -mb0 -. m..oo
-3.01.01  .0 mo.olo.toL -   --     tMmr.ooIl Mo   oo.-   ty               _..0    mloooot   ..oomo  00--. P.ak.01 ..0m ad
..o0'0r   -14 Wil0ms ao4mi, - 0M It. 0.11002 110.                     --001, %S04.11.01
SOW   (00021 (01111 - 000P.  -P00 .0000  ..0 t0. 0 -    -.%K  ~05to1o.                   ""oU.1. a. Mob'. M4 30r0.00 11M l...   -a efg.1.1-1 b...k0   =
*              -~~~~'i;~~~.     w-= o..-.0lo..01ol o. W1104 twok .02. (1979-SO 00.0.):                   &ObUlIaolh .0'o0. "".,a"m.. '" MObLo.4.o  mom..oI .a.f 0
two. torn. -d a,10 4~                                                                    d7 o 10.0    3014. .a           Uo   p00443.5 p.00.10107 004
0 .00t0109  M0 CAPI0* - A-l  f.o-0  -.... t0   .1                                   "&00  04 [ o.-a.- -  o.--00.tOy .0.00. by * gl.104Im by. .od.
-1O  09- 0..-   00  t. .  klL-.    2                    p    pt;P. .00    3oplOol    -ft1. ii   mo00oLo02l.ct                       hopa.. ft .ogdm p.0.
I%*1. 197    00 50171.2olU.41010..:d.0Ia.o1d.4-01w04.  amire1.                                                                                        t
Toool  p.1.01..#1..1i1...o4~A. ..1 J.17. a:iw. ICU. -14 amaM                                 -   -  tad a-o  04 .410mw00   a.to.
_____                                                                        0.0.00014         -o b.d..141   0.0.1. o.k.. .6-  by.wft
00.1 .    uta070100!emI-IUc, o.w
- (.0 M Ppp.1.00  PoJ0.01.00           10004- a'm                    ".4 at  -.1  -.01A. a b-..or - 2.40.0.0  .0wMY    bo ama.404S.
itir2.         .wio          '-d.o   .04 1. o..ua.y -04 f..otiIOy                 d. b-b.24 ho .0c01.010.  p--0O.
o3.. 0.7.000 P=oa.oo 0.0 -0o.Iay -cma..         1 o.poo .....                !!.oM 0o p0 ..0     s            - 0.t.1. 0o0.04001.ow'h
AU.1  R 1.5 11.". ..o.am.1 0100 -p-.0.1. -.ab  s-toy, 7moo                        4 00*o.op.o  I00. 10      0 .0   00.01 .00 -m -t .0.0
y.o.  &b. m.1.o  0.0ty loaa, -o, M.0.. 00.1 110t.. kol..0Ow1. moat..l
pL1000. P-oO--i-..  041 .00.00  1. lb.0  ~s-  -  ol th.. U2.                       ...-bt...... L.."p..  I1kS ooo.o   P.  1050.10..003
.04..000 .0 . ".a.l1a  04 enotfy ooo.. 0.0 f   PooJ-t0O   qp.0o..                 .1 1.L..  fto   0   ..1d0lo...uol.y
5-.0..- ..oi.0.    - . _...-a..   m.mo2.oa. 0-00. 0. -
*.o. CM  hUl  -0  a. "-I M t h- 4.01 -mO. Me4 '1. lb. .5ovcii
00.00.00 0010.O-.  Ill, 2. 01.0  01   fur. 1.0010101 o.to                      -                              .7   0.1.-b0..t.aa. -a.S            Oa
M.aU..-   0. o.pho.  1.01 .0-I .01.  oo9-0-.00- Mm. A01..                          ______________________ft____
momlol..  l.      .01.0.4. *   hoit. -00. Uo. j.oc.   _b0.a.-                   0ho   .0.- .g.mm1o.  ..o .11.010..- .11 . .0  I- 
1   t.0 .0  MMpp1.0..- 1. t1. pp. 2000. .04 ch. mm0.0  4.olh. .1                1.-0. 10t 04j..00  for 4100.0-t i.at  .0 001.007 04.041.; ho
--0100  .00  ,.p0.o.o  1_.ol.                                                          .1...10k--- 04.... 000.My _.o.0 ._1 oo4 ma             '
ao..t. 1o.0  M. 00004                                                       0          j931.. - 0.01 ..I. 0  f.-I. - 00.0.0. .0 .0.. .o0.
=Ea    G  - iE-p- m.wSoI.o. P., ~I.0o 01000. (to00 %.0-00  Of                    p0.0d40 500.0. 00.01m0*. w. 0.0000  t.10.& 50400.0004 f
04 -     I'm 4_0.                                                   mP-P1.  -L1, 41 - LM 17 7oo .0 "P; .op040..o..
ho--0. ooo.ao.  0      I      S - (o .    010. C., .oooo1-.o.1 L1.0             g....11  -c.4..
00171 I'm. 191`1 .0  i'm  M000.                                                  1..000I .0010.4(.0.0. I         .o04..)- 11..01.  1..1.0
0.m-2.10a4.10.0   Co.oo.ttl-     - 1.114. (0I0 70.0.. 0.obIma00 (105                   101*0000.0.140011.   t1b. mrom-' 010.k 0000.. 0.04
0.0..020 *.00 3.. I.oa .o  IF A..  -0..! 30_.0% 0.-g 04 -mI. .1-yloy  4.a0.y  ...401.                                        04 c-.oh.   1. 00 -00,
1.0o 001k00g (mo a.0.04)-    II-o 11.04 P-o ch--n   .1 .14-.
00.0 mo.1.10L  IWO.01.0  1930 400.                                                    0T
1.04. D0.0k 0.0. C..r 00.00.) - A.0.044. -moop  004_ .0 .14,-t,                      -.0O    ..  .o00004o..1.)-10, 0    00.
m..010100.090 0U10 ...                                                                000  0000 10000   .01   ..: .0140.110.. 30 ..0
-tt0  ft"- A--M.5  -b- 0 4..5b-co.                   411 00.00.                  0411007 o.bkto1.
M, C.L i;pT_-00 0.11.4 U. .. -pol.o. pt--c0 n5..poOftO                        W.s. S0...  000000  00.1. -A 11    C~.   --I.0.00 1. 0041.
1.010.110  0..;  -Ll11   1..o.  0000   04.510 S'. 1190. 04                            .04000.      50,0.1 =00110  p.o   0..  04 P.m.1004   .0104.0 m
ami.1.00   ..1.o1  .no.                                                                                           .0  0.. 1-.00.      S"-w .0001 . 1,0 0040..
70.01 021~ - 0a..aoo   -.1   a..0)   A- L~ Mt-  04 00t.o                        o0 .o 0ff.oO: 4.0. S.W ""'i0                "t 0.0 b0..   l. .L- 
00 010.0-00001 40100.0.4. .in0.0 - 04   ml.: foolly p1.0.1.WL             C-t000t- 00.1.0. lh...l1..
P-Rmoo                                                                             10~ 0000.10          .4mP"1.00  - TV0.0010.- 00 kodmat" 0.
0.10 ,o. a00.(.oo   0..04m..)-00005  00004000151..   0a.0   .001. .14.o0o.o   .....
s-004o01_-0o0 an 0 002141.0)*0.. 1110.Oo  4 0...0.0-0000000.0  S.01o *0   000.00.00 T0 Mt01.0 L.04.
.110.01.40.. Iam   .5..                                                          0.mIo 00000004.,ah..0  .o2oO.    S- 04.. 0  ..
FOOD10m 001371.0                                                                                                                                 W 010.0    4000.o1000...bp90   .10.. P.041.1.
0.0  .0  000 o1..oo  -0 I..!.. C40o1.. .00.  P000.07 god. (0.5.              (Es.400   00.    o(0..00 11-0, - II.0.4 .0 *0 o T 04
0.0004  -0 -.0000)  9050.300  I04.00 04- -.0 .b0--7 1.                               I .01.1 .00.
100.   ho  p0.-00  0-040.000 0.100. 0100141. 091m. 0  10420
0.0.00. .-4 000.5. -10 0.k.0. .p          .014.  1.10.4- 004.                        00.000011.bI'm. ill  -0 1-01  So    f-.RSS..O-I
,t. -4 .o  40.10b104. 04 po.M1.a1...d 00   11..m 10 moo-...0 1 -..00                 J190!2v EI~    - Idw0 0.0. 0. .0f.1. .Ioo..0.10.05
ho -tu          . 00000020 .0.0   00._.0 a   - r0w.01  0000000  000.011 -.90  190                 1   4mdo.0.
.0  09.7Y 1 000  00 407. -04*W 0000 0- 000 1. 404000 00 0. -.                      0.010000.0- 000(o..)-00...I    4I.!  -011.
O.q.0.o-..0  hO .0.1    =    --000.0002100  by 000A P.0-40 0.0 -001mw                0.110000  l4  00.1.oL  0  0.0l1    ...
o.1   -.. 04 ea aM 04 0..KO..1  P00 do7 -. 20 11o  04 e.0.01 04                      mo00. 040.1,. ..I. -A N-1o  ..10.. 04.11 s- ',.oLI.0lr
p.1.0 p-00.1. 04k00  20 3r-. .0.1   . -&-t. 00-0... U-.                              I1G0. 1910. 04 I9111 d00.  T0000 -  00.04. 110. p.0r1.19001O  000-
--- !.40.0  1..   0  004.C 0411  t0 0  0.0.1 P-00.0 04 23 00--                       -.0000. .5-  p0*00 04 t*0 p.o              . 04-0. 000 0.-. A
.4 _.M o I.ol   _010 _.  __W05  0.. 00.1.ol. p0p.o  by 00.0 010                      0.0.00400. .0  000  -00..1t     0000
ThIod 01r0 14   S.0 0.0.0   01-05. 19700 ml IMD 4..                                Oo 1...   00.4.o  3011. - Kill0 04 P.0.10010. -f., 05 -149  04S -d  -
ft, 0.000 00000 .0000.001 04 .01. - 00.0.0. 5-ppl .1 fodtwtwfSm
4.00L0  000..0.         M..0. Z-* 0.0 4.0  1911-45. 0.910 04 19vy
1.114 (     .002) hoo   Mm0 (M0  *bwd - ho.. 40t.  W moo 01-id S.                  WROM    'W1Zvrooo  ho.. (.  10.0           -1 04  104 - 3.o-104 by 010040, 1
00.00040 4000.0 f20L. 10 b.01-: I'M. 1910 04 OWl 4M.00                           0.31
1.00  ma 5r b- 10400  110 0000!: 'm  1971 0410 4.0. -001000 'L                                  0017 1dqf  1.o. PI- 01.1 1      1.-1 hob  01.00t 1.040.
10.00 0 loo 00.00.000.04 00.1004  -  ...ok..0   . -                             4000011   4.000411pl.m-I  on  ..0    .q1~   0
04m -1.00   0..   a  01.10  p00000041.0.01.j .010.. 0                             P-M-, h          E.000  t.000A ~17.   1 -01100.11t4 04t- .00.5  00.00-0I
.0b10-07 os bll . 000.00(0 -  ml*c000            -   -0mo0. mm1tloo   1.00 Z.000.04It 1.0.-. 04 010 0.0             c-,7 0.0  1...   1. 4014   r.  00..
000 doy 1. 0.0011  t.5*  f04'.o 0.400.40
- 0400-b  04 moopIx 0000 .  .. 04 001) -0.0  by .o--O
P.m0.1.  00000  0  *    00P-CI04 ww.l1wt0.. 040.0 41.o...
007 10.10.0 t 011001 -10 42"..*.. sltb - .01..b 1..thto. .0E-J -.  SOCL4.1 OM0. WhIoO
0.00  -00t  4b0-t.Oo  by t.0000 004 .0     -.f idt                                                              04001  hy0. 04 00.10000.  11p.o00t
00101- 04 1I1- 1.0110...00 1931K



BEST COPY AVAILABLE
24
Populati        19602 Cud-1981. tbma"d)                                                                  A_N_K t
CUP Per Capitat VA 2140 (1981)                                                                            ae" 4 of 5
MCfRIMA  - IU0oEC 1f eA?
("llion VA at                           Annual Crowth gat" (2) at coet_t 1974 prices
curet price)                              Acerl                                      Proi cted
Indicator                  19S0                      M 1 G7197   1977  197B  197f  t930  t9S1  I92(e)   1963  lSIb   19  1986
NAIOIAL ACCOUNTS
Gros  tei  product a/   41.422                3.4   8.9   7.9  12.2   5.5   4.4   4.4   6.3           5.7   5.1   6.4   6.2
Aicultwure               2.710             24.4  4.8  -7.2  12.4   5.3   2.0   2.6   3.0           3.5   3.5   3.5   3.5
Indutry                 23.635             0.3  12.4   7.6  11.7  11.0  -0.4   3.1   6.5           7.2   5.9   7.1   7.3
services                13.029             4.6   7.4  11.2  12.9  -2.8  11.6   6.4   6.6           6.0   4.0   6.0   5.0
ConsiMPtiom                23.287            10.5  11.1   6.5   9.5   8.7  13.4  13.0   7.3           2.9   4.3   8.1   B.2
Gross inveRtueat           16.740             6.9  -0.6  20.7  16.4 -11.6   8.5   0.6   3.5           5.6   4.2   3.2   1.8
Exports of GUS             14.314             0.2   3.5   5.1   5.1   3.8 -12.2  -3.5  -1.9           4.2   7.0   3.6   2.0
Iaports of CUWS            12.919            15.2  -3.:  20.9   7.1 -11.6  10.0  10.3  -0.2          -1 ,  4.t   3.8   3.7
Cross natioal savigs b/   16.566            -14.3   7.2   3.5   4.6  16.7  21.9   0.3  -7.6           4.3   7.3   8.8   7.4
PRICES (1974 - 100)
Export price inx cl                          96.3 109.4 120.0  113.7   5.8 26-.3 323.6 316.9        303.3 328.2 379.8 h34.9
Import price idex z                         115.8 125.9 1382  148.0  l62.0  171.1 191.  197.1       210.4 230.4 269.6  268.8
Term, of trad  inta c/                       83.2  86.9  56.5  76.8  98.0  156.6 16S.7 160.5        144.2  142.4 152.2 161.8
GD? deflator                                106.6 115.1 127.8  U0.7 160.1  197.2 220.6 232.9        253.8 275.4 296.0 313.8
Excaug rate (VA per MS)                       3.9   4.2   4.1   4.0   3.9   3.8   4.3   4.5
Sb0r. of CDP at Nlrkt Prieo. (2)                  Avrage Annual lacre (2)
(at                                           (tet pr)s)  Ct constant 1974 priees)
1960  L970  175  1980  19155  190                  1970-75  1975-M   1910-65 I985-90
Grose dometic product a/     100.0  100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0  100.0        4.3       6.3      8.1      5.6       6.1
Agriculture                16.0  10.1   8.8   6.3   5.7   5.0          0.1       4.0      2.5      3.3       3.5
Indusry                   36.8  35.5  51.0  56.2  55.0  60.7          11.6       3.1      5.9      6.3       7.1
Servicea                  45.2  44.5  32.4  32.1  31.3  29.8          -2.1       3.4      6.7      5.1       5.0
Cansmprion                   75.1  70.7  61.8  56.2  70.9  78.5           2.1       5.8      9.9      7.1       8.3
Gross investment             61.5  36.4  50.0  39.9  38.7  32.3          -0.2      19.7      6.7      3.4       2.3
worts GIUS                   31.1  22.0  36.2  34.6  20.9  16.2          -3.4       1.8      1.9      1.8      0.8
impors GYS                   48.0  29.1  66.   32.6  30.4  27.0          -4.0     18.7      4.3       3.2      3.6
Cros national saving. b      25.8  23.7  39.9  39.3  37.1  33.2            ..      20.9      9.7      2.4       3.8
As 2 of CDP
1970     V15-    1980
PUBLIC 113*80
Crorent r     s                           26.8     44.5     39.6
Current expediture                        15.S     21.6     17.3
Surplus C+3 or deficit (-)                11.0     22.9     22.3
Capital expenitur                        20.6      30.0     27.1
Foreign fincieg                           -         -        -
1960-70  1970-75  197540  19S-85  19815- 
OTE RIICs
CUP g      rate (S)                4.2      6.5       7.1      6.1      6.4
OP per capita growth rats (S)      1.7      3.3       3.6      2.6      3.0
EuerD  co_euwtibD grouch rate CZ)  12.7 f/  10.5      8.5      9.5      8.0
ICog                               6.6      6.2      5.8       7.3      5.9
Narjinal savigs rate                ..      8.8      38.5     17.5     21.3
lIport elasticity                 -0.9      2.9      0.5       0.6      0.6
al At market prices. Components are expressd at factor cost ad do not add up du to ecluioe  of indirect tins.
JR lcluding the teru of trade effects.
ei On goods and no factor services
i Projected years at cotant prices.
*;/ zatimae
'E 1965-70.
1351B p3
Noller 29. 1983
EMU CQIIt



BEST COpy AVALABLE
lat;eF    i 1-2 tZ1  tie _|)                s-23-
er 'r capita           (!   )
5 IL - .m         w   arin.   M l. CaIL AM NW
(aUUm      ~       Wu"
wIur                                                     Aft_rjeced
m       1973    197      I97    197S    1979    190    191    1e2(e)   193    19U            1n95     IN1
*        UMAUU 03 *AUSI
Emperce of _uam _ mwia         U             4.3 f.n    5D?1    .33 3   3,73   n1UP  14,30   13.191 14.l335       3.990  16N.40   19.657   22.494
ef :kiths Uaggha.iiae fo.b.       1.013   4.3l   3.221   6.09   0340   9*.43   13.62   14.227 1U,510    1.2116  If.624  1.552   21.264
imartm of ago"   m e ere            1.437   G.396   6.32    3.93    10.531  12.351  14.532  13U.5   14.95    15.330 *13.94    21.191   22.510
of -bichs  Uecbmdici e.if.        1.U    5.n6   5.1J4  .6.732   7.99   5.636  10.019  11.260  11.111    10.963  1.517  Ls.199   17.004
not tae -_                            233      375     48       261     315      320     301      40     367        433    472      sag      547
C,neet amneat balsam                 -123  -1.,1  -637  -2.323  -3.33   -1.322           269       13   -133    -1.437  -2.06S  -1.02        -449
elvet. diveet laeetumu                 45        5     la       173     135       10     315      .97    -45        260    270      233      290
L? lemae (Not)                        239   1.2=0    1.496   2.221   3.747   2.276       637      -23   -637         35  2.163    11.3       577
Official                            27      1        11s     224     u7       442      376     190    -32        326    107       42      -14
rivte                              232   1.137   1.230   1.9        3.-G1   1.314     231    -216    305        23   2.061    1.095        591
Otwe capital                         -249       4     -132    -226    -m7        -11      33       33   -33          77     -5       -6        4
nin  in 'moemye                        70      272      41 .     33    -161    -643    .223        77  1.273        413   -368    -379      -39
inte,utieee roan,,.                  1VA    132      1.7      1.636    1.641   2.659   3.773   3.395  2.422       2.007  2.375   2.736     3,143
_e veeesmthu imp-                       1        2       3        2       2        3       3        3      2          2      2        2        2
Cringe diehuraininta             292   1.507   1.92    2.361   4.640   3.813   3.062   2.426  2.579
Offitil 3_t                         -        -       -        -       -        _       _        _       _
e-Caacoeeinu  lame                  40       76      72      i2       5s      135      67       31     91
Mc                                3       61       14      30       23      22        6      26      1o
awsc                                      -        -       _        _       _        _       _       _
Other                             35      1s       57      41       335    114       6        5      73
m  oee..lOUaS               252   1.431   1.857   2.740   4.532   3.673   2.975   2.431  2.4S
Offical _pc cruit                -        5       so      148      1a9     382      4S7     23      207
u3e                              -        33      50       33      53       47      3        42     93
Othe mltilaterl                   -       -        -       -        -       1i       it      -       22
private                         252   1.362   1.749   2.539   4.30    3.233   2.63    2.101  2.14
maternal Debt
Ogt eut_Aeaiig we diebatau         937   4.677   5.646   8.316  12.660  14.91   1u073  14.o3  13.743
tida"                         4*3   1.061   1.132   1,420    1.653   2.,22   2.47    2.490   2.-o
Priet.                          434   3.394   4.04   6,69    11.07   U.M    22599  11.573  11.239
edebt                       5     3.114   6.130   6.451   7 37   8.924   6.110   5.9n   4.525
Debt Service,
To1tal in   paruta                  43      457      773   1.023    1.452   2.631   3.710   3.ne   6.231
loat                              1 0      e 2    360     333      535    1.153    1.306   1.207  1.334
pay,ota as   enpe. .               3.3      9.      14.0    16.1    21.6    26.6    25.4    23.7   29.5
-g   latert ratem- War team CZ)          6.5      7.7     3.1      7.9     3.9    10.1      3.3      3.5    3.3
Official                              6.0      6.      O.       3.1     7.5      7.      3.1
priv-t                                4.6      7.S     3.0      7.3     9.0    10.7       3.5
AV rae aeterity of Wa   ae  (Oune)       9.7    10.3    10.3       9.3     9.1    10.3    10.5       *.     8.0
O fjicial                             7 .5    153     11.6    13.2    13.3    U.7    24.2
private                               9.7    10.0    10.4 o.7           5.7      9.7     3.7
An I of Debt stetmding at *cd af (19301
letwity etretre of debt aettmc iag
incipal dee witham 3 peee                                      53.0
Priipal d_ withi 10 yews                                       92.9
Intaeret atrucete  Of abt o_ettdiag
latret du with  finat 7ea                                       G.
(  antiulta.
13513s 24
seember 29. 1933
-m cpus



- 26 -
ANNIX II
STATUS OF BANK PROJECTS IN ALGERIA
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ALGERIA
A.  STAThIENT OF BANK LOANS AD IDA CREUITS (as of October 31, 1983)
Loan or                                                           Amount in US$ million
Credit                                                            (less cancetlations)
Number      Year    Borrower                         Purpose      Bank    IDA    Undisburued
Fifteen loans fully disbursed                                    396.17
1159 AL     1975.   The Democratic and            Tech. Asst.      8.00               1.56
PopuLar Republic of          Rural Dev.
Algeria
1378 AL     1977    The Democratic and            Education       35.76              35.65
PopuLar Republic of
Algeria
1545 AL     1978    The Democratic and            Sewerage        82.00              76.02
PopuLar Republic of
Algeria
1595 AL     1978    The Democratic and            Education       75.00              71.84
PopuLar Republic of
Algeria
1683 AL     1979    The Democratic and            Highways       126.00              57.12
PopuLar Republic of
AlSeria
1739 AL     1979    Office National des           Meat             0.20               0.0
Aliments du Betail           Industry
(ONAs)
S-17 AL     1980    The Democratic and            Water Sup.        5.00               2.70
PopuLar Republic oE          Engineering
Algeria
1802 AL     1980    The Democratic and            Bas Cheliff      8.00               7.82
Popular Republic oE          Irrigation
Algeria
1803 AL     1980    The Democratic and            Education       47.00              46.66
PopuLar Republic of
Algeria
1892 AL     1980    The Democratic and            Highways       110.00             102.73
PopuLar Republic oE
Algeria
TOTAL                                                 893.13
of which has been repaid                       162.21
Total now outstanding                                 730.92
Amount sold                          34.81
of which has been repaid      34.81
Total now held by Bank                                730.92
Total undisbursed                                                       402.11
B. STATMNT Of lIFC INVESMfENTS - None (Algeria is not a member of IFC)
ID.856B



- 27 -
ANNEX I1I
ALGERIA
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken by UNDP to prepare             Nine months
project:                                (April 1979 to December 1979)
*           (b)  Project preparation responsibility;       UNDP/IBRD/Ministry of Posts
and Telecommunications
UNDP (Project No. AL 79/005), with
the World Bank as Executing
Agency.
(c)  Project reconnaissance                    June 1978
(d)  Bank Missions  (i) Identification         July 1979
(ii) Preparation           September 1979
December 1979
(iii) Appraisal             January/February 1980
June 1980
(iv) Appraisal up-dating   March/April 1983
(e)  Negotiations                              December 9-13, 1980;
January 26-28, 1981;
September 27-28, 1983
(f)  Planned date of Effectiveness             April 30, 1984
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
(i) The Ministry of Posts and Telecommunications (P&T) to introduce,
effective by January 1, 1986, an acczual and cost accounting system
providing for separation of the accounts of the telecommunications
and postal/financial branches (paragraph 49);
(ii) DGT to finance a reasonable proportion of investment costs out of
net internal cash generation, and to communicate annually to the
Bank its plans for meeting net internal cash generation targets
over the next year (paragraph 36);
(iii) P&T to have its accounts audited by an independent auditor, and
submit certified financial statements within six months after the
end of each fiscal year (paragraph 40); and
(iv) P&T to be charged all interest and other charges on the loan, and
amortization of principal against its budget at prevailing standard
Bank terms (paragraph 37).



10.                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MARSEILLE
FIRST TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT                                                                i//
MINISTRY OF POST AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS                                                                  ;=
General Directorate of Telecommunications (DGT) o
National Trunk and International Networks                i       i       i,.,- 
-32'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~b D---W,>g__t111i*O-D/                                             IEo   O2   o4
BECH^R   B E C HA R         /===                                          r /,///////////i//MOS// A///Nt-A
gS~~~~~~~~~~SC



IBRD 1 511ORi
o  8      APRIL1983
4. 
.,'25$Ocb I         Mediterroneon    Sea                                                                                        El E IKola
-I~                                'C>'N    BEJAIA               JIJEL-   - k                 LSKIKDA .          S C   NNAB Ae
IERS    ,/  T I Z I                                                                 K. BEJAIA ,JIJELt-  .    A N  N A 8  A    e
IERS       1> T I                              EJI
~~         E4A4.&<~~~~~~~~~ JI JEL              a,.i                                        ~ 1$
*- sosi.,/,! .c.....,......S,-*,,//X                                                             '/:1/*jjj!  .'r./    PLNEADIIN#DRTERX
a   o u z 0 uY'x<         ?,rJi A .-f        -'MAr'  *.W"d
L        F- A- 2          iJB/       ,.z   , jz   ,Xs,.ICONUdlcaie
-R U A <3         ;;,, .,/          -./'r ,        ,   /JJ,        22                                    /7/',)    a
I'    ,;                   557Wi //                  C,/,f          n.v        t -o   e/oxo  als-70canl
'I//I  ~~~~D T'I'  F                                                  G'T, 1
.' ;          }        ///,  f't;; ' H' '//   - /xm  cooia c ble.2n  pre,ippe fr270i hanel
!:.r           /                      '>/f   "                 Y5 ''"'   '/1/4Ne
r~ ~~~                      t '      /lg  / /;'/                                       OUM EXS ING FQACIITIESZ
;'ii,St;,iTJ//X- 'r/ '/ ' //'                                                                OU       EL OIIIcols-eitn
8 0 U I R A/I!,I                                                '                      Ia-
/  "'   /           /              PLANNED             N U        T   PROJECT:
l~..   <~/  / 'A  ,  ''    ' '/4"  ,b'                18  iloyas  here PC's wil be firt instlldi
r. ~     ~     ~      1j  K','/g  .--r; j''t'7'7"//.' ,/Q            1 /           isoatedloce alitiestai    omsi
-./,,,7~~ ~  .s//, //,,, -/    *       *,j ,;,/   ,,1-           ,,,            2ioyaswhtererural teephon e snerviceionlbeuoaid
:ji,RXiJX>/-,/S/     /,'E //   1/'  '' / ''       -         New coaxial ecab es -20  chnonls
.J,~~~~~~~~~r                                                                                                   :10e:/ I's/it      ointaea
30  40  SD                                                                       GH ////o  K  ' '  'A' -- --   Newnoaial cables    c
M'//// ' r//,, ,. .S  I-./ L  A,,' S    -'
/// ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~/                              /1/,,j// 4,/      osiMsou
N.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~VI
/                         ~~~~~~~/
N         /7'                        -  -o-   coaxial~~~~~~~Ne   cxacables -27existingl
'/0                                                        -   - ~~~~1' X//Nlwcoaxial cables - unde  canestuio,2dpa
/ ''"''4  ''  /       .                                        H F pa~~~~~~~~~~~~~Eirtn  coxacables -2dPr qipd o  70canl
/' /> '.'/I               //      M/ul  Eitinge trunkmexchanges-natioaladrneraioa
"''\w    '    IIi,/,//'/J~I  0EUiARiGLA, to epandedanderrd  pa
/   , ,,,,                            r~~~~~~~~~~ NCatioal trbesunkdexchangstrutionbe addd ulndr3dpa
, /,/I///,Ii '7/7- ~~~~~~~~~~z~...K... H0  W airy capitles
i/I/i I~~~~"///,/ ,*>' ;'o.,  ~ ~ ~ ~     ~    ~              NoSteliteonalhcaptalin   itraira
40   60   80  /'/~~~~~~~'~~'/i    ~ ~ ~             I       -   W~~Eisting bound xcaries  -ntoa  nnentoa
~~  II,    / f          .~~~~~~t~~I29~~ARGLA1              -   ~~Eintrntional bound xcaries onladnenainl
/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ob xaddudr3dpa
/, A2 /4                                             MassU MeRsGoLdA






