                                             Document of

                                       TheWorld Bank

                                      FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                      Report No. 12119




                                    PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT


                                              ALGERIA


                               FIRST TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
                                          (LOAN 2370-AL)




                                          JUNE 30, 1993




        Industry and Energy Operations Division
        Country Department I
       Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
r
 This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
 their official duties. Its contents mag not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                              CURRENCY EOUNALENTS (19921

                           Currency Unit       = Algerian Dinar (DA)
                               US$ 1.00        =     DA 21.63 (Appraisalyear average. in 1983. was DA 4.79)
                                DA 1.00        =     US$ 0.046
                           DA 1,000,000        =     US$ 46,232 (was USS 208.770in 1983,at appniral)



                                          FISCAL YEAR

                                      January 1 - December 31


                                  WEIGHTS AND MEASURES

                           All weights and measures are in metric units.


                         ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED

                   (Acronyms and organizationsnames relate to the French title
                              of the organization. as used in Algeria)

DEL               Direct Exchange Line (telephone)in operation.

DGT               P&T Ministry's General Directorate of Telecommunications

Expressed demand The sum of the number of DELs in service and of registered pending applications

GESFIN           Technical assistance sub-project for financial management, accounting and auditing.

ICB              InternationalCompetitive Bidding, as per World Bank procurement guidelines.

Microwave        Normally applies to radio communicationssystems working at a frequency above 1,000
                 megahertz per second.

MIP              Management Improvement Program of the Algerian P and T

P&T or MPT       Ministry of Posts and Telecommunications

PLANTEC          Technical assistance sub-project for development planning and implementation.

Telex            Automatic teleprinter system

TFYPIFFYP        Algerian third/fourth five-year national plans (1980-84/1985-89)

Trunk            Used for long distance interurban interexchanges and international cjrcuits

UNDP             United Nations Development Programme

UNDPWB study     UNDPlWorldBank preinvestrnent study for telecommunications in Algeria (UNDP
                 financed project no. 791005)

Wilaya           Regional district of the political and m    v     e organization in Algeria. The
                 territory was organized in 31 wilayas.

                                                                                         FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

                                                    M E WORLD BANK
                                                  Washington, D.C. 20433
                                                           U.S.A



Office of Director-General
  Operation8 Evaluntion
                            I




                                                                                                 June 30, 1993


                      MEMO
                      O           UM TO                                                          T


       SUBJECT:        Project Completion Report on Algeria
                       First Telecarmnunications Proiect (Loan 2370-ALL


                       Attached is the "Project Completion Report on Algeria                            -   First
       Telecormnunications Project (Loan 2370-AX.) " prepared by the Middle East and North
       Africa Regional Office.            No Part I1 was prepared by the Borrower.

                       The project aimed at: (i) supporting the expansion of Algeria's
       telecormnunication network through the financing of a time-slice of PbT's
       investment program, and (ii) improving the sector's                       institutional and policy
       framework. Network expansion was much slower than expected (the original program
       target of a million subscriber lines was achieved with a four-year delay), as a
       result of the worsening of the country's economic situation and of procurement
       problems.        Furthermore,        the project failed to achieve its institutional
       objectives of improving PLT planning and management systems as well as tariff
       policies, due primarily to weak Government commitment.                       At project completion,
       sector    development         and     efficiency       remained     hampered      by    an    inadequate
       institutional and policy framework (with the state retaining a monopoly on most
       relecarmnunications services in contrast with changes which have taken place in
       most other countries); accordingly, the long-term sustainability of the Bank-
       financed investments can only be aseessed as uncertain.

                       Overall,       the     project      outcome     is   rated      unsatisfactory,         its
       institutional impact negligible, and its sustainability uncertain.                           The Project
       Completion Report is thorough and informative.

                       No audit is planned.




       Attachment




            This d o c ~ n thas a restricted distribution and m y b used by recipients only in the performance of
            their official duties. Its contents m y not otherwise be disclosed wfthwt Uorld Bank authorization.


                                                                                                 FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

                                               iect Comddon Reoort
                                                       Alneris
                            First Telecomm~micatiomProid man 2370-AJJ

                                                 Table of Contents

                                                                                                                 mkH!h
PREFACE ....................................................... i

EVALUATIONSUMMARY ............................................ii

PART I. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE                                  ......................                     1

1. Project Identity      ................................................. 1

2. Background ....................................................                                                         1
   .Sectorsetup .................................................1
   .SectorDevelopmentandProjectGenesis ................................ 2

3. Project Objectives and Description           .....................................                                      3
   .ProjectObjectives ..............................................3
   .ProjectDescription ............................................. 3

4 Project Design and Organization
 .                                          .......................................                                        4

5. Project implementation         ............................................. 5
   .LoanEffectivenessandProjectStart-up ................................ 5
   .Procurement ................................................. 5
   .ImplementationSchedule.......................................... 6
   .Projectcosts ................................................. 6
   .LoanAllocationsandDisbursements .................................. 6

6 ProjectResults
 .                     . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7
   -  Project Objectives and Performance Indicators ............................ 7
   . PhysicalResults ...............................................7
   -  FinancialPerformance ........................................... 7
   - Rate of Return on Net Fixed Assets ................................... 7
   - Financial InternalRate of Return on Investments ........................... 7
   -  Ecommic Rate of Return . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8
   -  ImpactofProject          .............................................. 8

7. Project Sustainability      ..............................................                                             8
   .ProjectBenefits ............................................... 8
   .ProjectRisks ................................................. 8

  Thisreponwas preparedby Mews M.Scoffierand S.Monti IENTI basedon infonn8tionfromregionalfilesand
                                       .                           .       .
  obtained from the Algerian M        i of Posts and T e l e c o m m ~ n 0during supervisionvisim throughJ u w
                                                                           a
   1991.


    This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
    of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

8 Bank's Performance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8
 .

9. Borrower's Performance     . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9
    .Covenants ...................................................9
    - ClosingDate   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9

10 Project Relationship
  .                    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9

11. ConsultingServices . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  9
    . Technical(PLANTEC) ........................................... 9
    .Ficial(GESRN) ............................................. 9
    .Audit ..................................................... 10

12. Project Documentationand Reporting       . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   10



PART II. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11

   Borrower's Perspective of the Design and Implementation of the Project. and of its
   Development Impact  .

PART III STATISTICAL INFORMATION
        .                                        .................................                                   12




2. Project's Timetable ..............................................                                                12

3 Loan Allocations and Disbursements
 .                                           . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   14
   A .  Allocation of Loan Proceeds      . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   14
   B .  Cumulative Disbursements (Estimated and Actual) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15

4 Project Implementation
 .                         ............................................                                              16
   A .  Additional Facilities (Estimated and Actual)        ...........................                              16
   B. Completion Dates     ............................................                                             17

5. Project Costs and Financing     ........................................                                          18
   A .  Project Costs  ..............................................                                                18
   B .  Project Financing  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   18
   C .  Country ExchangeRates        ........................................                                        19

6 RojectResults ................................................. 20
 .
   .Performance   Indicators   ..........................................                                           20

7. Status of Covenants ..............................................                                               21

8 Use of Bank Resources. Missions Data
 .                                            ........................ ;.........                                   23

1. Growthof Facilitiesand Demand for Telephone Service....................... 25
   1 . 1 Past Evaluation of Telephone Connections. Unsatisfied and Total Demand (1970 .1990) . 25
   1.2 DELs in Service and Unsatisfied/Total Demand (~ctua~ SAR Forecast 1970 .1990) .... 26
                                                                           .
                                                             and
   1.3 Net Growth of Total Demand and DELs (1970.90) ........................ 27


2. Financial Information ............................................. 28
  2.1 Operating Revenues. Debt Service. Cash Generation (Actual and SAR Forcaut 1979-1990) .. 28
                                                                              .
  2.2 Estimate of Financial Internal Rate of Return ........................... 29


1.              Thiiis the Project CompletionReport PCR) for the Fit TelecommunicationsProject
'inAlgeria supported by Loan 2370-AL. The loan for US$128.0 million to the Democratic and
Popular Republic of Algeria was signed on January 22, 1984, became-effective on December 10,
1984and was closed on June 30, 1992.                                 .



2.              Parts I and III were prepared by Bank staff based on information available in project
files and information supplied by the Algerian Ministry of Posts and Telecommunications (MFT).

3.              TheBorrower has been reminded several times of the need to prepare Part I1 of the
report, to give its perspective of the design, implementation and development impact of the project.
A suitable deadline was given for its submissionby the end of March 1993, but no report has been
received yet. This would be incorporated when available. Further comments from the Borrower,if
applicable, would be annexed to the report in Part 111.


                                                 Algeria
                        ' Fi
                          >)    T eco
                                       Proiect Comdetion Rewrt




1.               Loan 2370-AL of US$ 128million was the first telecommunicationsoperation
financed by the Bank in Algeria. The project originated from a Bank Country Economic Mission in
1974, including review of Algeria's proposed Second National CYear Plan (1975-78). The
Government awareness of the need to develop adequate telecommunications services as a requisite to
the country's economic development was recognized and the very high investments required to thii
effect were identified. Under the second and subsequent National Plans, government sectoral goals
were to significantly improve the availability and quality of telecommunicationsservices, to introduce
efficient modern technologies and to increase operational efficiency and productivity. In Algeria,
domestic and internationalpost and telecommunications (P&T) services are entrusted to the P&T
Ministry. Though disposing of a separate budget annexed to the government budget, P&T is
governed by mles and procedures applicable to government departments, including budgetary cash
accounting system which does not provide standards for efficient operational and financial
performance. Together with development financing, the sector needed assistance in improving its
organizationon a more commercial basis and in strengthening its technical and developmental
capabilities.

2.              The lack of appropriatetechnical and financial information on sector status and
development resulted in several unsuccessful attempts to define a suitableproject for Bank financing.
In 1979,government proposed that project preparation be made under a UNDP financed pre-
investment study for sector development and organimional improvement during the third Five-Year
Plan (1980-84). The Bank was the Executing Agency of the study which served as a basis for project
definition and appraisal.


Proiect Obiectives and Descri~tioq

3.              The main objectives of the project were to: 1)expand local networks in urban and
rural areas in order to double the telephone density per inhabitant over the project period; 2) expand
intra and interregionaltrunk facilitiesto handle increase in traffic; 3) provide telephone service to
isolated locations; and 4) prepare and implement a Management Improvement Program (MIP) to
strengthenand improve organizationand capabilities of P&T1stelecommunicationsbranch and to
develop a sound financial basis for future operations and development.

4.              The project included: 1)coaxial cable systems for trunk network on five main routes
totaling about 600 kms;2) automationof regional networks and of main rural areas in 22 wilayas to
connect some 42,000 distant subscribers in about 800 small capacity exchanges and line concentrators;
3) construction of local cable networks in about 450 medium and large towns to accommodate about
310,000 new subscribers;4) setting up of about 600 new public call offices in rural and isolated zones
of 18 wilayas; 5)provide constructionsupport and operationlmaintenancefacilities for the new
systems; and 6) prepare and carry out a management improvement program with the help of
appropriatetechnical assistanceand training in development planning and financial management.

5.       Though not raising major difficulties, overall physical implementation of the project was
delayed due to slow start-up of &he procurement process (para. 5.02), combined with a slow down in
the country's development due to worse than expected economic conditions and lesser resources from
oil at project mid-ten (1985-86). This obliged government to reduce and defer investment in several
sectors of the national plan. In 1986, the project had to be updated and its scope reduced by about 20
percent, also carrying over some of the works for implementation through 1990. At government
request, US$23.7 million were cancelled in October 1986 and the remaining loan proceeds were
reallocated in early 1987. Within these changes, the physical targets of the project were achieved but
completionwas delayed by about three years. At full development from the extended project period,
the initial target of P&T's program of 1million lines in service should be reached only in 1993with a
4 year implementation delay (para. 6.02).

6.               The estimated project cost at appraisal was US$ 312.4 million (DA 1,437 million)
with a foreignexchange component of US$ 128million (DA 588.0 million). The actual cost of the
revised project has been estimated at US$280 million (DA 6.050 million) including a foreign cost of
US$ 102.4 million. The components removed from the project were mainly regional microwave links
with high foreign exchange share of costs. The fourfold increase in local costsof the revised project
reflects large exchange rates variation of the DA and more costly local works by about 25% during
the project period (para. 5.05 and tables 3.5.A. B, and C).

7.               In the financial area, performance could not be thoroughly assessed because accounts
do not provide all the information required, the pro-forma or actual separation of telecommunications
and postal activities not being effective in the P & T's accounts. Tariffs were raised at project
inception in 1984 and in 1990generating about 40% increase in revenues and, combined with growth
of facilitiesand usage, resulted in yearly increases of revenues averaging 15.2%from 1985to 1990.
With the devaluation of the currency, however, such increase is not meaningful. The tariff issue
remained to be reviewed when adequate accounts and financial information on the sector are
introduced to reflect its overall financial management. Also the cash generation ratio to self finance
development exceeded the value of 50%required in loan covenants in 1987and 1988but slightly fell
back since then (para. 6.03).

8.               The institutional impact of the project was well below expectations due to delays in
recruiting the required consultants and the continued deferment of the implementationof
organizational changes on the part of P&T and the government (paras. 5.02, 6.04). Lacking
information from P&T since 1991,when the country's political stabilitydeteriorated, no assessment
can be made of the progress made, if any, in this field.



9.               The poor performance of Government and P&T in: i) slow and delayed
implementation of the project within the telecommunications development program during the
extended project period; and ii) in the sector management improvement and financial areas would
point normally toward a failure in important project's objectives and in the agreements to achieve
them, which had been reached at project preparation and appraisal.

10.              There are some mitigating circumstances in the delayed implementationoutside P&T's
performance under the Third and subsequent National Development Plans. These were delayed, as a

whole, due to less satisfactory than expected resources and related economic situation of the country.
P&T on their side, with close supervisionfrom the Bank at project inception, made their best effort to
implement and meet'project's physical target, but about 3 years later than planned for construction
and even longer for operation of the facilities.

11.              With regard to the management improvement program, such programs require the
political will of government and the concerned Ministry to implement them. This eventually was not
the case and several changes of organization at top and senior levels of P&T prevented adequate steps
to be taken. Regrettably, the selection of consultants to advise on and prepare P&T's Management
Improvement Program (W)suffered repeated delays. Implementation of the project's hardware
componentswas well advanced at mid-term of project when it was revised. Supervisionduring the
later project period, as extended, was limited to the progress on the delayed consultancy services for
managerial improvement. The project, however, was completed before P&T commenced
implementing the proposed MIP.

12.              The review of the implementationof this project indicates that: i) P&T and the
telecommunications sector in Algeria are still facing the need to refonn their institutions and
organization; and ii) as a consequence of late and insufficient increase of available facilities to satisfy
a growing demand (which had been adequately assessed during appraisal), the sector development
requirements remain considerable. Review of the current situation indicates that about a million lines
should be added under the next phase of P&T development, representing another doubling of existing
capacities. Related new investment would be of the order of US$2 billion.


                  FIRST TELECOMMUNICATIONSPROJECT lLOAN 2370-AL)
                                 1

                                                 PART I

                        PROJECT REVTEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE


                 Proiect Identitv

         Title:          First Telecommunications Project
         Loan NO:        2370-AL
         RVP Unit:       Middle East and North Africa Region (MNA)
         Country:        Algeria
         Sector:         MN1IE. Industry and Energy Operations
         Subsector:      Telecommunications

2.               Backmound
Sector Set-UD

2.01             In Algeria, the Ministry of Posts and Telecommunications (P&T) is responsible for
the domestic and international postal, telegraph and telephone services. The broadcasting and
television services are under the Radio and TelevisionAuthority (RTA). RTA leases circuits from
P&T for program relay purposes. With P&T's authorization, the defense services, civil aviation,
power distributioncompany, gas and oil extracting companies, and railways have established some
telecommunicationsfacilitiesfor their own needs, as is customary in most countries. Government has
also set up two state corporationsunder the Ministry of Industries, SONELEC, for the manufacture of
telecommunicationsequipment, and SONATITE, for carrying out constructionservices for P&T and
installation and maintenance of private PBXs.

2.02             P&T is constituted and functions in accordance with PresidentialOrdinance No. 75-89
of December 30, 1975. This decree, bearing a detailed P&T code, confirms the regulatory and
operational powers vested in the Ministry for postal and telecommunications public services and
related matters, and provides that the P&T will have a separate budget annexed to the government
budget. P&T has apparently day-to-day autonomy and is authorized, under the overall prevailirig
price and government budget control systems, to apply tariffs enabling it to cover operating costs and
to re-use operating surpluses for investment. It is, however, governed by rules and procedures
app1ical;le to government departments and follows a cash accounting system which does not provide
standards for f m i a l performance and operationalefficiency in its two main branches of activity.
The above decree was introduced with effect from January 1, 1976, and was intended to improve
efficiency within the administrativestructure. At times of project preparation and appraisal, P&T's
internal organization provided for an integrated Directorate General of Telecommunications(DGT)
instead of the two previously existing directorates for equipment and exploitation. Two other
directorates for personnel and general services were retained as common to both branches, but with
separate divisions for the postal services and for telecommunications. The objective was to eventually
separate postal and telecommunicationsservices and have, at term, distinct operational management
and accounts. These were steps in the right direction, but they had not yet produced all the desired
effects. During project preparation and under the loan, broad initiatives were agreed upon to prepare

and implement a thorough Management Improvement Program (MIP). The MIP,however, was short
of indepth sector institutional reform which govement did not want to consider and undertake at
that time.

2.03             In 1985, however, government policy to streamlinethe costs of its administration
resulted in the suppressionof Directorates General in all Ministries. P&T's administration was
reorganized in a series of abreast directorates coordinated by the Secretary General, thus jeopardizing
implementation of the proposed MIP and the proposed functionalseparationof the Ministry's main
branches of activities. At project completion, studies had been made but no major step had been
taken towards operational separation of the postal and telecommunicationsbranches, or further
reorganizationof their activities on a more commercial basis. Also, during the project period (1984-
92), there were six changes of P&T Minister, which resulted in repeated functional redistributions,
moves or replacement of senior staff in the Ministry. In 1991, a thorough diagnosis of the sector
status and proposals for a new sector policy were prepared with Bank assistance. However, due to
the country's political instability since 1991, no further considerationwas given to sector restructuring
or to reorganize its operation as recommended under the GESFINIMIP studies from the loan or 0 t h
sources.

Sector Develo~mentand Proiect Genesis

2.04             Loan 2370-AL was the first telecommunications operation f~nancedby the Bank in
Algeria. The project originated from a Bank country economic mission in April/May 1974, including
review of Algeria's proposed Second National 4-year Plan (1975-78). Government' awareness to the
need to develop adequate telecommunicationsservices as a requisite to the country's economic
expansion was then identified. The sector also required very high investment to modernize, expand
and improve its services and their operation, in a context of growing demand (less than 60 percen! of
the registered demand was satisfied) and of insufficient quality of service. A request for Bank
assistanceto the sector and its development was made at the mission completion, in May 1974.
Government goals under the second and subsequent National Plans were to significantly improve the
availability and quality of telecommunicationsservices, to introduce efficient modern technologies at
both manufacturing and operational levels of telecommunications equipment and systems, and to
increase operationalefficiencyand productivity in the sector. Algerian economic development from
1972 to 1991took place under a central planning process, each successivefour or five year plan
being confmed as a national law. with tight implementation control of each component under the
concerned Ministries' annual budgets. Implementation was also monitored through yearly reviews
and adjustmentsof progress, and investment authorizations, in each sector. At the end of each plan
period, unrealized works were updated and often brought forward into the subsequent plan, in
particular with regard to infrastructure components such as telecommunications.

2.05    Project preparation required several years from 1976to 1983. Delays and the protracted
discussionsand efforts to conclude the loan were mainly due to: (i) the lack of appropriatetechnical
and financial information on sector status and development; (ii) the unpreparedness of the P&T, the
beneficiary, to agree on the required consultancyservices for its development and organization and on
Bank's ICB procurement procedures within their Plan implementationprocess; and (iv) the
government policy of progressive national self-sufficiency in the sector, including enlarged
production, supply and installationof equipment produced locally within P&Ts program. The finai
preparation of the project was frnanced by UNDP under a pre-investment study for sector
development and organization, carried out by consultants under the supervisionof P&T and the Bank.

The timetable of the extended project preparation period and the related activities through several
attempts to define a project are summarized in Part 111, Table 3.2.

3.      Proiect Obiectives and Descri~tion

3.01            Proiect Obiectives. In accordance with the government's sector goals (para. 2.@I),
P&T9sDevelopment Program was initiallydesigned for the third Five-Year National Plan period
(TFYP, 1980-84) but later extended for implementationthrough 1988and 1990for some items. The
project was a part of P&T9sprogram, of which objectives were to:

        (a)     significantly expand ,thelocal networks at rates of 20% to 25% per annum, with
                proportionately more resources being directed outside the main urban areas, thus
                moving from the present level of 2 DELs per 100 inhabitants to 4 DELs per 100
                inhabitants over the project period. (This represented the installation of about
                650,000 telephone exchange lines, including replacement of obsolete equipment,
                during the 1984-88 project period);

        (b)     change the present manual system in the rural areas to automatic equipment, providing
                new exchanges at all government administrative centers;

        (c)     provide telephone service for the first time at over 900 isolated locations;

        (d)     improve the quality of local and long distance services through the installationof
                additional equipment and better system planning and maintenance procedures, thus
                enhancing service quality and efficiency and relieving traffic congestion;

        (e)     upgrade, restructure and expand the long distance and international networks, using
                land-based, satellite and submarine transmissions systems, to handle the forecast
                increase in traffic, with the particular goal of regional and global interconnection,
                including neighboring and major European countries, and of incorporatingthe new
                development region on the High Plateau;

        (f)     improve postal and telecommunications management, planning and accounting
               procedures within P&T, and overall productivity;

        (g)    complete the investment program from the second plan; and

        (h)     increase and restructure tariffs so as to free resources for use in sectoral development,
               or elsewhere in the economy.

3.02           The startup of P&T9sprogram implementationunder the TFYP (1980-84) was very
slow, due to insufficient technical and financial planning combined with shortage of qualified
organizationand manpower. In 1982, the government authorized P&T to plan and commit its
development for implementationuntil 1988and reviselexpand its program accordingly on the basis of
the 1979 UNDP pre-investment study to prepare the proposed Bank financed project.

3.03           Proiect Descriotioq. The project covers a time slice of P&T*senlarged investment
program at time of appraisal (paras. 3.01 and 3.02). It consists of specific high priority works to be

realized during the 1983-88 period, as well as of a program to improve management of the sector
(MIP) and provided for:

         (a)     construction of about 550 krn of new coaxial cable links on 5 long distance routes,
                 and expansion to 2,000 channel capacity of an existing 600 km coaxial cable, to
                 increase the capacity of the trunk networks in ten important wilayas, also enabling
                 addition and redistributionof about 4,000 trunk circuits;

         @)      construction of about 1,000km of medium capacity regional cable and transmission
                 systems, enabling automationof about 400 smallcapacity exchanges in rural areas of
                 22 wilayas, and installation of about 400 line concentrators to connect some 42,000
                 distant subscribers;

        (c)      construction and rehabilitation of local cable networks in about 450 medium and large
                 towns, to accommodate about 310,000 new subscribers;

        (d)      setting up of about 600 public telephone call offices (PCOs) in rural and isolated
                 zones of 18 wilayas now without access to telecommunications services;

        (e)      provision of transport and handling equipment, power equipment and tools for
                 network constructionat large centers; and

        (f)      a management improvement program (MIP) to be carried out with the help of
                 technical assistance(about 170 man-months) and staff training abroad (about 100 man-
                 months) including: management and organization of telecommunications development
                 and operations, development planning and engineering, financial management,
                 accounting and a tariff study.

4.0     Roiect Design and Oreanization.

4.01             The project was prepared by P&T's Directorate General of Telecommunications
(DGT) with the assistanceof consultantsunder a UNDP financed pre-investment study. Initial
appraisal of the project by the Bank took place in February 1980. Due to delay in both start-up of its
program by P&T and in reaching agreement on the proposed organizational improvement under the
project, an appraisallproject update took place in March 1983. In the meantime, Government had
agreed on a revisiontextension of DGT's programs to complete delayed works under the TFYP and
add facilities required to cope with growing demand and for installation from 1983to 1988. In
addition to specific high priority works of DGT's revised program, the project included technical
assistance to enable P&T to implement the managerial and organizationalchanges recommended in
the UNDP study, in particular in the fields of financial management, accounting and tariffs. These
changes were required to cope with the responsibilitiesof operating and developing a large
telecommunications network planned to reach a million lines by 1988. DGT's developmentplanning,
engineering and implementation capabilitieswere also to be strengthened through consulting advice
and training. The concept and design of the project were appropriatein order to increase the quantity
and quality of telecommunications services and their sustenance throughout the country, providing at
the same time for the foundation of enhanced future growth.

4.02             At the initial appraisal time, in 1980, the cost of components to be financed by the
Bank was set at US$ 100million. Following DGT's program revision/expansionand at the request of

the Algerian Delegation at Negotiations, the amount was later increased to US$ 128million to ensure
more significant impact of Bank participationin DGT's enlarged program. During implementation,
however, in line with the general deceleration of yearly allocations to investment in the successive
National Plans, DGT's progradproject's pace of implementation were revised and sized down. At
government request in 1986, US$ 23.7 million of the loan were cancelled reducing its amount to US$
 104.3million, of which US$ 102.4 million were disbursed at loan completion (paras. 5.02, 5.06 and
tables 3.3 A and B).

4.03              P&T was responsible for the implementation of the project, with DGT mainly in
charge of the works management. DGT had acquired experience in this field during the second Four
Year Plan (1976-79)where installed switching and local network capacities had been increased from
about 200,000 to 500,000 exchange lines. The engineering technical assistance under the project was
intended to strengthen such capabilities for development planning and implementation, in particular
using new technologies, and for improved operation. The overall organization of the project was
unchanged during implementation. In retrospect however, the deferred employment of consultants
and the slowing down of the pace of realization of DGT's program limited the benefits which had
been anticipated from the project (paras. 4.02, 5.02).

5.       Proiect Im~lementation

5.01              1.                                       Loan 2370-AL was approved on December
10, 1983and signed in Algiers on January 22, 1984. The Loan Agreement specified April 23, 1984
for loan effectiveness. The date had to be extended three times and the loan was effective only on
December 10, 1984, over seven months from the original effective date. The delay was primarily
due to problems surroundingthe Legal Opinion and the reception in the Bank of a conformed decree
for loan ratification. Some progress was made in between to start up project implementation, in
particular with regard to procurement. This was supportedby two Bank missions during the first
year after loan signing.

5.02             Procurement. In spite of DGT's efforts to promptly initiate procurement action under
the project, as the matter had been discussed during the extended period of preparation, the
Department was far from familiar with the Bank ICB procedures. Also the internal procedures P&T
had to follow and was accustomed to under previous investment programs were different or conflicted
in many aspects with those from the Bank Guidelines. The main points were related to: public
opening of the bids, evaluation on the basis of CIF prices, no adjustment of the proposals on criteria
or for reasons not includedfquantified in the tender documents, no deviation from the specifications
toward acceptance and/or further negotiation of the proposals even in consideration of unspecified
technical advantages, etc. These aspects are not uncommon with new borrowers in the North African
sub-region. Their resolution resulted in protracted comments and revision of bid documentation
under the project and in initial delay of over two years in the procurement process. Also the Algerian
regulation and practice of annual budgetary investment control under the National Plans did not
enable P&T to commit expenditures in excess of each yearly allocationfor the concerned items. This
prevented procurement under pluri-annual contracts and their related benefits, also increasingthe
administrativeburden for project implementation and causing further delays. With regard to the
technical assistance in project planning and in sector management, as agreed under the Loan and in a
side letter for the proposed Management Improvement Program (MIP), the government and P&T
successiveadministrations remained reluctant throughout the whole project period, and were very
slow in hiring the consultants and preparing MIP. The engineering consulting serviceswere deleted
from the project and obtained through bilateral agreements with Canada and suppliers' countries. The

management consultantswere engaged in 1990in accordance with Bank guidelines but only the study,
and very little implementation of the MIP. had taken place at project completion almost three years
later than anticipated at appraisal.

5.03             Procurement of Bank financed items took place under 64 contracts signed from 1983
through October 1990, all entered into in accordance with Bank procedure and under Bank
supervision. The early contracts became effective with the loan, in late 1984. Fifty of the contracts
totaling about USt95 million (93 percent of the total disbursements) had been completed in June
1991 about a year and a half later than planned. The additional 18months delay in loan/project
completion was mainly due to force majeure circumstances under an $ 8.4 million contract for local
cables from a Serbian supplier of which deliveries and settlement of disbursement applications were
delayed or held in suspense due to war events in the country of origin.

5.04             Proiect Im~lementationSchedule. Overall project implementation was delayed by a
combinationof reasons given in paras. 5.01 and 5.02 above, and the slow down in the country's
development due to worst than expected economic conditions. Tables 3.4.A and B in Part III give
details of the additional facilities, estimated and actually realized, and of the related completion dates.
Physical project ~omponentsoriginally scheduled to be completed in December 1988, were completed
about three years and a half behind schedule. During implementationof the Third Five Year Plan,
Government, confronted with lesser foreign exchange resources from oil export, had slowed down the
realization of the Plan and reduced development expenditure authorizationsin several sectors under
their annual budgets. In late 1985, the ongoing P&T program was updated and its implementation
period extended through 1990, reducing some of the works and extendingthe period of
implementation of some others. The project was revised during supervision in June 1986and, at
government request in considerationof the delayed commitments under the loan, US $23.7 million of
the loan amount were cancelled in October 1986. The allocation of the loan proceeds was revised on
May 9, 1987.

5.05             Proiect Costs. The estimated total cost of the First TelecommunicationsProject at
appraisal was US$312.4 million (DA 1,437million) including a foreign exchange component of US$
128million (DA 588.8 million). The cost of the project on completion, as revised and implemented
as part of P&T9sadjusted program for the 1984-1990period has been estimated at about US5280
million (DA 6,050 million at 1992exchange rate), including a foreign cost of US$ 102.4 million.
The approximately 20% foreigncost reduction correspondsto the revision of P&T's investment
programtproject made by Government in 1986, (para. 5.02). The removed items were mainly
regional microwave links with high foreign exchange cost component. The fourfold increase in local
costs of the revised project reflects both large exchange rate variation (Table 3.5.C) and 25%
increase in the cost of local works during the project period. Table 3.5.A Part III details the
estimated costs of various project components on completion. P&T did not take separate project cost
accounting for the Bank financed and other investment works of its program. The above figures arc
PCR indicative estimates based on data from project supervision.

5.06             Loan Allocations and Disbursementg. The original and revised allocationsand final
disbursements for Loan 2370-AL are given in Table 3.A Part III. The estimated and actual
disbursementsare given in Table 3.B Part III. The disbursements were delayed and reduced in
accordance with project revision. The last two extensions of the project closing date in June and
December 1991were agreed to cover completion of deliveriesand disbursementsunder a single large
contract for cables from a Serbian supplierdelayed due to force majeun (para. 5.03). An outstmdiing

balance of US$ 1.94 millionwas cancelledat loan closing following the last disbursements for the
delayed contract.



6.01            1%                                                 Table 3.6 Part III summarized P&T9s
main performance indicatorsas planned and achieved under the project. Physical components of the
project were successfully implemented and related objectives met, but..were delayed by several years
due to managerial deficiencies and downsizingof Government financing of the sector (para. 5.04).
Introduction of better technical, financial and accounting management practices through the proposed
MIP and the use of technical assistancecould not be achieved, studies were started very late and
implementation was not effected.

6.02            Phvsical Results. The physical targets of the project as planned and achieved are
detailed in Table 3.6 Part 111. The total number of telephone lines was increased from 410,000to
812,000 during the 1982-1990 period, the initial target of the SAR for year 1988(1,020,000) should
be reached in 1992 with a 4 years implementation delay. The objective of extending local networks
to allow for the connectionof 310,000new subscribers, which represented one of the components
financed by the Bank,was reached in 1990with a 2 year lag time. Telephone density was improved
without leaving out any part of the country: one wilaya had a telephone density of less than 1%in
1986 and none in 1990, and the number of wilayas with density below 2%was reduced from 28 to 12
in 1990(out of a total of 48 wilayas). The highest density is in Algiers (8.3%). Long distance
transmission infrastructurewas successfully improved to handle the additional traffic generated by the
growth of subscribers. The total number of trunks grew from 11,300 in 1982to almost 25,000 in
1986 and 44,000 in 1990, the total traffic almost doubled from 1986 to 1990.

6.03            Financial Perfonnancs. Accounts do not provide all the information required since
separationof telecommunications and postal services was not implemented in that system. However
revenues from telephone and telex traffic increased at a mean yearly rate of 15.2%from 1985to
1990. Tariffs were raised in 1990(unit rate from 0.6 Dinars to 0.7) generating a 38.8% increase in
revenues and without apparent negative impact on the volume of physical traffic, thus revealing a
continuingpressure on the demand side for telecommunications services. With regard to the covenant
on self-financing, the net internal cash generation ratio exceeded the value of 50% as required in loan
covenants for year 1987and 1988,but fell back to 46% in 1990.

6.04            Rate of Return on Net Fixed Assets. Appraisal forecast was that the rate of return on
average net fixed assets would be 11R at the end of the project. Based on an audit and simulationof
telecom accounts realized in 1990by consultants,the actual rate of return has been computed to be
9.6% in 1990.

6.05            Financial Internal Rate of Return on Investmcntg. Due to the lack of intermediary
accounts specific to telecom activities,the financial rate of return (FRR) was roughly estimated on the
basis of summary informationobtained during supervision. PCR estimates are shown in Annex 2.2.
The estimated FRR is about 10%. significantly lower than the 15%forecast during appraisal. This
may be explained by the delayed project implementationand connectionof new subscribersunder
P&T's program, as well as the deflated value of the Algerian Dinar during the project period, which
reduced the impact of additional revenues.

6.06             Economic Rate of Return. For Telecom projects, to take into account consumer
surplus and indirect benefits, economicrate of return is generally estimated by adding about 20% to
the financial rate of return, as was done during appraisal. For the project, estimated ERR would thus
be of about 30% which is still above the simulated low estimate of the SAR.

6.07             Im~actof Proiect. The institutional impact of the project has been limited as well as
the implementation of organizational changes due to the reluctance of the borrower to start consulting
studies in managerial and organizational fields and to implement the recommendations. A large
potential for further action is available in this area.


7.       Pdect Sustainability

7.01             Proiect Benefitq. The projects benefits are significant.They include: i) an importaut
development of the telecommunicationinfrastructure, ii) an increase of both the quality and the
geographical coverage of telecommunications services.

7.02             Proiect Risks. Risks to sustainability are related to the ability of the present
organization to implement coordinated further development and to manage operation and maintenance,
particularly considering the fact that the network should at least double from the present size to meet
the requirements of the demand for services. It is clear that in its present state, the sector camot
achieve the necessary rate of growth to relieve that pressure.

8.       W ' s Performancg.

8.01             Overall Bank performance in this project has been good and very tenacious on some
aspects, during both project preparation and implementation, as needed to achieve suitable goals in
difficult or complex matters. Table 3.8 Part I11 gives the field missions' data under the project,
together with comments on the problems met and matters dealt with.

8.02             During the lengthy preparation period, the Bank identified basic institutional
weaknesses in P&T and DGT, its operational arm for telecommunications, in the following areas:
investment planning and project engineering; financial management and accounting; tariffs and
commercial approach to service provision; overall organization and a great need for management
information. The Bank actively assisted in the pre-investment study for prograrn/project preparation
and design of the MIP. During the 6 year period through final appraisal, over 50 staff weeks were
spent in the field to analyze, work out and agree on sectoral development and institutional
requirements. The agreed goals and actions were finally incorporated in the Loan Agreement and 4
side letters, mainly operational, on Technical Assistance, MIP, performance indicatorsand audit
procedures.

8.03             The Bank made its best efforts to deal with the uneasy processing of bid documents
(paras. 5.02 and 5.03) during late project preparation in 1983184and at the beginning of project
supervision in 1985186. This enabled over half of the procurement contracts representing about 60
percent of its initial loan amount to be entered into by the end of 1986. Such relatively expeditious
startup, however, lost momentum when P&Ts program was revised and its implementation period
expanded in 1986, resulting in delays as indicated in para. 5.04 above.

8.04             The Bank supervised the project as detailed in Table 3.8 Part III. A total of 9
missions, i.e. once a year on average, were made during the 9 year project implementationperiod.
The main matters which had to be dealt with were: (i) uneasy circumstances of procurement
processing under project, (ii) changes in programlproject composition and pace of implementation
which resulted from the deteriorating economic situation of the country; and (iii) reluctance in and
low priority given de facto by government and P&T in implementing the Technical Assistance and
MIP components of the project. At project inception P&T had suggested that no less than two
supervisionvisits take place each year. The pace of the visits was then relatively more frequent, in
particular with regard to procurement and contractual aspects. Implementation of the project's
hardware components was well advanced at mid-term in 1987 when it-wasrevised. Supervision
during the later project period, as extended, was limited to the progress on the delayed consultancy
services for managerial improvement. The project, however, was completed before P&T comments
implementing the proposed MIP.



9.01             covenants. Government was the borrower and the Ministry of Posts and
Telecommunicationswas the implementing agency. The status of compliance with the conditions of
the Loan and the agreements in its side letters is indicated in Table 3.7, Part 111. The main non-
compliance was: i) partial and delayed start of consultant's studies on Management Improvement
Program; (ii) lack of implementationof recommended actions under MIP including the set-up of an
accrual accounting system and separation of Posts and Telecommunications accounts; and iii) delayed
submissionof external audits by 'Inspection Generale des Finances' (IGF).

9.02             Closing date, The initial closing date (June 30th 1989) was extended four times to the
final date of June 30th 1992 as project implementation was delayed by modifications in P&T*s
investment and procurement plans.

10.      Eroiect Relationship

10.01            Bank's relationship with Government and MPT on the project has been good but
several changes in Ministry and senior P&Ts managers resulted in slow and insufficient process of
exchange of information.

11.      ConsultingService.

The technical assistance program was initially comprised of two sub-components, PLANTEC
(technical planification) and GESFIN (Financial Management).

11.01            Technical PLANTEQ. Studies on planification and tariffs, originally to be financed
by the Bank, were realized in the framework of bilateral cooperation but not before 1987. According
to the information gathered during supervision, the results of this program neither conformed with the
initial terms of reference nor did they achieve the objectives of PLANTEC.

11.02            Financial tGESFIM. The studies about GESFIN started very late (1989) and covered
the development of accrual accounting and management information systems. The study for accrual
accounting was to allow for the separation of the accounts of telecommunication and postal branches.
Recommendations have not been implemented.

11.03           -Review
                 Audit.           of P&T's financial statements by 'Inspection GCn6rale des Finances' is
more than two years behind schedule. ?'he last report in files covers 1987and was received in Much
1989. In 1992 the Bank decided to insist only on a complete audit of the project accounts. IGF
carried out a first mission in late 1992and established a report concluding to a disclaimer.
Documents made available to IGF were insufficient to complete the audit of project cost. Another
IGF mission will take place as soon as the required documents can be made available by the Telecom
Administration.

12.     Proiect Documentation and Reporting.

12.01           The development project was initiated by a thorough UNDP study and appraisal
report which provided an adequate framework for review and follow-up. In particular, the
development of telephone demand was realistic (refer to annex 1.2 for forecast and actual data
comparison). Progress reporting and the availability of data on project implementationand results,
however. lacked regularity and comprehensiveness. Specific progress reports concerning Bank's
financed components of the project were not provided. Information was made available only during
supervision missions and in the format of annual operational reports, budget forecasts and review
documents, and statementson progress of P&T's overall investment program within the framework of
National Development Plans.

                                              PART I1

                   PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE

               Borrowers's Persvective of the Desien and Implementation of the Proiect
                                   and of its Develovment Imvact


This part is being prepared by MPT and the Government. The borrower was reminded in due course
of the need to prepare such part, which had not yet been received on April 29, 1993.

                                     STATISIlCAL INFORMATION




Loan 2370-AL(US$ 128 million, signed on 01/22/94)was the first World Bank Group Operation for the
telecommunications sector in Algeria.




       See notes   to &I/, on next page.

 Notes on Proiect's Timetable:

 II     As a followup to a Bank Economic Mission, including review of Algeria's proposed Second National 4
        Year Plan (1975 - 78). Government expressed its interest in Bank assistance to the telecommunications
        sector and its development under the plan. A request to this effect was made at mission completion.

Y       Subsequentfurther identificationand preparation visits, in 1976and ,1977,resulted in abortive attempts
        to defme a suitable project for Bank financingdue to lack of appropriatetechnical and financial
        infonnation on sector status and development and because agreeable ICB procurement procedure would
        not apply for a submarine cable, a major item for which government was seeking Bank financing.

Y       Followingdeletion of the submarine cable, a revised project was considered and prepared including
        new development under the MPT program for 1978         - 81.  Initial appraisal however showed that sector
        needed in-depth reform and no significant technicallfinancial information was available. Only a
        technical assistance project for sector reorganization and developmentplanning was feasible and
        recommended. Algeria was reluctant and Bank management did not accept such limited action at that
        time.

u       Algeria proposed that project preparation be made as part of a UNDP financed pre-investment study for
        sector development and organizational improvement during the new Third 5-Year Plan period (1980 -
        84). This was agrezd under the UNDP Project no. ALG/79/005/C/01/42signed on April 18. 1979.
        The Bank was the Executing Agency of the study which was implemented from May through
        November 1979.

51      Appraisal and negotiationsof an enlarged project for a proposed Bank loan of USS100 million took
        place on the basis of the agreed fmdings and recommendations from the UNDP study. as a follow-upto
        the tri-partite discussions at completion of the study. Algeria however was highly reluctant in agreeing
        upon projectfloan conditionality,in particular with regard to sector reorganization, financial
        management, audit. related technical assistance components. etc. Also, dialogue with the Bank became
        increasingly difficult in 1980 - 82, also relating to some late amortizationpayments under past loans.

y       Improvement in BanWAlgeria dialogue in 1983and well advanced preparation of project enabled
        project revisinglupdatingin March and conclusive negotiations in September 1983. Loan amount was
        increased to $128 million.

71      In Algiers, by Mr. A. W. Clausen,World Bank President. This was the first Bank loan to Algeria
        since July 1980.

y       Delay due to finalizationof the legal opinion from the Algerian governmentGeneral Counsel.

91      Loan closing and completion dates were extended 4 times through June 30, 1992, under authorizations
        dated 02/27/89, 11114/90,06/20/91 and 12/26/91respectively; the last two extensions were agreed to
        cover only completionof deliveries anddisbursements under a contract for cables and network
        accessories concerning about 60,000 subscriber lines, from a Serbian supplier (Invest Import, contract
        No. 25/90 DC of USS8.4 million). The contractor was unable to deliver as scheduled due to forcc-
        rnajeure conditions (civil war. foreign currency market closing in 1990191, UN sanctions, etc.)

-       Date of the last disbursement, at which the loan account was closed and the undisburscd balance of
I(Y

        US$ 1,939,173was cancelled effectiveJune 30, 1992 (see table 3.3.B).

             CATEGORY




       modulator and overhead line




   -   Total amount disbursed
     - Cancellation 1, as of 10/27/86-U
    - Cancellation 2, as of 06/30/92 2'




11  Revision was made on May 9, 1987on the basis of the updated project under P & T enlarged
    3rd plan program through 1990, of contractual costs of procured items and on account of
    government request for cancellation of part of the loan amoun! (see 4 below).

-y  Cancellation 1of $23,700,000 was made at government request in October 1986, considering
    delayed implementationof P & T program and the resulting slow commitmentsunda the
    project and the loan.

y   Cancellation 2 of $1,939,173 is the undisbursed balance of the loan as of its extended closing
    date of June 30, 1992. Part of the last cancelled amount corresponds to undelivered items
    from a Serbian supplier, where force-majeureconditionsprevented contract completion.

                                Table 3.3.B: Loan Disbursements

                 (CumulativeEstimated and Actual Amounts in US$millions)




11   Last two disbursement applicationsreceived prior to June 30, 1992,were only paid in October 1992,
    having been held in suspense pending resolution that fundspaid to the beneficiary (a Serbian supplier)
    would not be frozen. The undisburd balance of $1,939,173 of the loan was then cancelled effective
    June 30, 1992, the extended loan closing date.

21   See notes 2 and 3 in preceding Table 3.3.A explainingcancellations 1 and 2 from the original loan
    amount of $128 million, of which only 80 percent was actually disbursed.

                       TABLE 3.4.A: Additional Facilities, Estimated and Actual



  TypesAUumber of Fadities




     linelmultiplexcarrier systems and transmission
                                                        4000 new trunks circuits.  - New Trunks 100%



      ine concentrators.




I' Project was revised in 1987 to lower realizations to about 80%of the initially appraised quantities.
   Actual installationsover the extended project period represent the revised project compared to
   appraisal estimates.

-U Some high capacity microwave links considered at project revision were later cancelled, new digital
   technology being introduced under separate programs.

2' Late deliveries under a delayed contract from a Serbian supplier(see table 3.3.B) did not enable to
   complete construction at loan closing. It is expected that 100%of the appraised 300,000 new
   subscribers will be installed at full development in 1993.

   AS reduced at project revision in 1987.

2' Technical Assistance sub-project for development planning (PLANTEC) was realized under
   separate bilateral financing from Canada.

I/ The project and loan allocations were revised in May 1987, on the basis of ongoing works and
   expecting that completion would be feasibleby end 1990.

  Physical completiondate of all items, but local lines networks and technical assistance (GESFIN).

r1 Due to delayed deliveries of cables and outside plant material by June 1992 (see Table 3.2, note
   91). it was expected that full development of the planned local networks for 300,000additional
  urban subscribers would be d i p d by end of June 1993.

                                         TABLE3.5.A: Proiect Costs
                                                  (US$million)




2 Reflects project revision, as made in 1987.

   MPT did not maintain separate cost accounts for the Bank financed items and works, PCR estimates w m based on
  yearly cost variations/changesas accounted for under MPT's whole investment program in Algerian Dinan (DA).
   investment cost increased averages about 2596 during the project period.

2' Indicates actual costldisbursement of Bank financed items under the revised project.




                                           TABLE3.5.B: Prolect Finandm
                                                    (in US$ Millions)




                                                                                    - - -


                 I' Reflects reduced size/cost of revised project.


                     Represents about 25%increase of local project costs during project period.

1' The last 2 years before completion are discountedbeing only marking time for deliveries of cables under a single
   delayed contract (see table 3.2, note 9).

                                          TABLE3.6 PROJECT RESULTS

                                                                                 ATION




                       ionuntf rates




'1 Main telephone lines in service (DELs) as a proportion of exchange capacity.
b/ Operatingexpenses dividedby operating revenues.
'1 As a percentage of construction requiremenu.
   Cumnt assets dividedby current liabilities.

      - Employmentof consultantsto carry out a DGT management       Partiallv com~letc4.




                                                                    framework of new


                                                                    1991, but no &tailed


                                                                    current organization


               staning 1987, separate financial statements for DGT




      against P&Ts budget nlatingto DOT.
I!                                                                 I                      R

              the end of the quarter during which the debt is incurred.




              - Reparc long  range master plans.




                                                                          detailed steps of implemntation
                                                                          under current organizationsetup.

              - Carry out a study of the tariff structure.                 Not done.

              - Organizetraining courses to  prepare P&T pmonnelfor the   Not do=.
              tasks of planning, developmeat and operation of the
              telccommrmicationsnetwo* and thosc of fblcial mnagmrmt
              adaccounring.


 Lener No. 4  - Telcammnmications wilf achieve     a net i n d cash        The ratio reached 53%in 1987
              gemnth ratio of at least 50%of its annualcapital             but was back to 46% in 1990.
              q d h m a sMing 1983.


 Letter No. 5 - The Inspeaion GMmle des F             iahallWrmthe audit8  w.Compliant        for 6sal
              refer& to in Seaiw4.04 a).                                   year 1987 only.

b

                                                               - 23 -

                                               TABLE3.8 USE OF BANK RESOURCES

                                                                  SIONS DATA




/P h MDS  hTLbk 3.1.
Ib Ky w ovenllpcrfommncc ndng: 1- problem-fm: 2 - modcntcproblem: 3 majorprobkmr.
                                                                   -

                                                                  - 24 -


                                                   E3.8 MISSIONS DATA lCONTINUED U




   S u ~ o q


   Project smmp visit       1/84      2        4       Eng.. Fm.                 Following lorn sigmam.
                                                                                                                                           L
                                                                                                                                           7
   Supcnision I            3/85       1       2          Ew.             2       Ovenll delay.inimpluncncuionof 2nd National Pkn(1980-
                                                                                 1984). pmcurenumforonly 30%of loan amount. deficient
                                                                                 progress r e p o m md procurementpmcedurrr.

   Supcnision 2            12/85      I        I                         2       Budget appropriPdonsfor me sapDr reduced.
                                                         w   e
                                                                                 pmcuremmfdelaycdbyowoyunduemu' .                   '
                                                                                                                                '     o d
                                                                                 clanme procedurrr amlbuic diffc-          with Bank's
                                                                                 guidelines.

   Supenision 3            6/86       I        1         Eng             3       Funher budgetreducrionsfor the secmr makc it imporribkm
                                                                                 implemmpmgnm duringoriginal h m fnme. mmqcmrm
                                                                                 conrultrna have not ken appointed.

   Supenision 4            4/87       3       3      Eq..Eng.,Fin.       2       Loandoation.
                                                                                 Beginningof consulom's studios on developmmof rurnl
                                                                                 ~ U n t i l lrrd lmmganem illformlion syaemr
                                                                                              g
                                                                                 Invesnnenalad openring levelsbelow orpm.

   Supenision 5            11/87      2       2        Eng.. Fin.        2       O$mnfionrlprfomv~ce       below orpen. ovenll mmqemmc
                                                                                 defieieru. little pmgxcs in implomcllfingTA rajdwmm.

                                                                         3       Delays in dirbuncnunt TeehnicP1Auiarasc (MIP)conma
:, Supenision 6            1/89       2       2        Eag..Fi.
                                                                                 stiu p e d i .

   Closing Duc (CD)        6/89                                                  Exaadcdm 12/31189.




                                                                                 Agrcnncntm sp#d up udliuwn of remining fimk dto




 /b Key m o v e d p e r f o m ndng: 1 pmbkm-free: 2 modcnmproblem%3 mjor problem.
                                     -             -                 -

                                                          ALGERIA
                                     MINISTRY OF PO=       AM) TELECOMMUNICATIONS
                                         BRSTTELECOMMUNICATIONSPROJECI'

                     ANNEX 1 GROWTH OF FACILITIESAND DEMAND FOR TELEPHONESERVICE

          Tabk 1.1 Post Evolution of Main L i e s in Service. Rcektcred and Total Demand for Tekphone Connections
                                                         0970 19901
                                                               -
                                                     -2
         DEb in           k g i u c d      TomJ               of     Ncl Gmwth     Gmwlbof       No. of DELs        Wahing L d
          &JZES                          p e r w    Sal~sfkd mag      of DcmM     pnul.%        Added in Ywr    Equivakn~(Monlh)
(1)         (2)              fll            (4)         l2.e             (6)          0)             (8)               (9)'




 rl Dincl~ c L i n e s .
  bl Toai Dcmrad. Column(2)t(3).
  J Cub(2)wcr Columo(4) in 5.
 d/ Moolbr lvcdsdIO clur curren~Wai!iw liw. asamhg LN~CvWiliuruuf   oew DELr a1 cumm year's mk d pnuluc~iua.Culunul(3) JivLW by Culun~n(8)
     n*lhpliPIby 12.



                                                                          ALGERIA
                                               MINISTRY OF POSTS AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS
                                                      FIRST TELECOMMUNICATIONSPROJECT

                                                            ANNEX 2 FINANCIAL INFORMATION

                                   Table 2.1 Onentinx Revenues. Debt Senice. CashOpention(Actual a d SAR Forecast. 1979 1990)
                                                                                                                       -


-      Operating  Ope*       N a b m c       N a Income         Debt           Dcbr         DcM          Dcbt          Nct Inl.   N u Int.
Y a r  Rcvcoucs    kvenwr     BcC.Int.        &f.h            Scnicc          Senice       Service      Senice          Casb       Cash
        Acaul        SAR       Acaul           SAR            Actual           SAR        Cuvcragc     Covenge        Gemration   Gmmntiun
       MiliDa DA  MillionDA  Millioa DA      Million DA     Millioa DA       Millin DA     AcPlsl        SAR            Acrunl     SAR
(1)        (2)        (3)        (4)             (5)         . (6)              (7)          (8)          (9)            %          %









