Document of
The World Bank   FILE COPY
FOR OFmFCIAL USE ONLY
Repqt No. 1174a-MAG
STAFF PROJECT REPORT
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
IN MADAGASCAR
October 19, 1976
Education Projects Division
Eastern Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the perfornunce of
their offici duties. Its eontents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank utboriation.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1            =        FMG 218
FMG 1,000      =         US$4.59
MEASURES
1 Meter (m)              =        3.28 Feet
1 Square Meter (m2)              10.76 Square Feet
I Kilometer (km)         =        0.62 Miles
1 Hiectare (ha)          =        2.47 Acres
GOVERNMENT OF MADAGASCAR
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



MADAGASCAR             FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
STAFF PROJECT REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
BASIC DATA
GLOSSARY
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS ...................................   i- ix
I.   DEVELOPMENT AND HUMAN RESOURCES ..........................1
Socio-Economic Background ...........................
National and Regional Administration ....            ............     1
Decentralization of Government Structure ....            ........     2
Employment Trends ...................................                 3
Educated Manpower Need and Supply ....             ...............    4
Conclusions .........................................                 5
II    THE EDUCATION AND TRAINING SECTOR ........................                   6
Administrative Structure ............................                 6
Structure of the Education System .....            ..............     6
Content of Education ................................                 6
Enrollment Growth ...................................                 7
Education Finance ...................................                 7
Problems of the System ..............................                 9
Government Plans for the Sector .....................                11
Assessment of Government Plans ......................                13
An Investment Strategy for Education ....            ............    16
A Bank mission visited Madagascar in 1974 to review educational plans and
assess priorities, and the proposed project was prepared by the Government
assisted by a Unesco team in October 1975. An appraisal mission comprising
Messrs. F.C. Gamble, R.F. McMahon and G. Sinclair and Ms. C.A. Stover, all
Bank Group staff, visited Madagascar in December 1975. An edited revision in
French of the draft staff project report prepared by this mission was discussed
with the Government by Messrs. Gamble and Sinclair in June 1976.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-2-
Page No.
Charts and Annexes:
Comparative Education Indicators .......... ..........    17
Chart 2.1   Organization of the Ministry of
Education, 1974 . ............... ........    19
Chart 2.2   Existing & Proposed Revised Structures
of the Education System ................    20
Chart 2.3   Education Pyramid 1974           ..................    21
Annex 2.1   Growth in Education Enrollments,
19to -i9i4   ......... . . .. . . .. . . .        2.
Annex 2.2   Recurrent Exptnditures on Education,
1972-1975 ...        ...........................    23
Annex 2.3   Enrollment and Budgetary Implications
of the Expanded Basic Education Systemn
Envisaged in the Charter ....         ...........    24
III.   THE PROJECT            ................................ .................    25
Project Strategy and Objectives ........ ..         ...........    25
Project Items .........  ..........        ....................    26
Regional Education Centers ........ ..         ...........    26
National Teaching Materials Production Center               28
Textbook Development ........... ..          ........       31
Educational Statistics and Planning ......                 32
Educational Evaluation ....         .....................    32
Project Administration and Pre-Investment
Studies .......................................           33
IV.   COST ESTIMATES, FINANCIAL PLAN, IMPLEMENTATION
AND PROCURMENT AND DISBURSEMENTS ..........................    34
Cost Estimates .................     ..     ...................    34
Financial Plan .................     ..     ...................    36
Implementation ......       ....................... ...          37
Procurement and Disbursements ......... ..          ......       39
Annexes:
4.1  Estimate of Costs  ............ ..         ...............    41
4.2  Implementation Schedule .......... ..         ............    42
4.3  Key Indicators for Project Supervision .........    43
4.4  Estimated Schedule of Disbursements ...........       .    44
V.   BENEFITS AND RISKS .......................................    45



Page No.
VI.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ....        ...............   46
VII.   RELATED DOCUMENTS AND DATA AVAILABLE IN THE
PROJECT FILE .............................................   47
MAP: IBRD 12079






MADAGASCAR
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
GLOSSARY
BEPC                      Brevet d'Etudes du Premier Cycle/Lower
secondary school certificate
BEPOTEP                   Bureau d'Etudes des Programmes et l'Organe
Technique d'Elaboration des Programmes/
Curriculum Research and Development Bureau
CAP                       Centre Academique Provincial/Regional
Education Center
CEG                       College d'Enseignement General/Lower
secondary school
CISCO                     Circonscription Scolaire/School District
CNaPMaD                   Centre National pour la Production de
Materiels Didactiques/National Teaching
Materials Production Center
FNDE                      Fonds National de Developpement Economique/
National Economic Development Fund
Fokonolona                Basic community grouping of villagers or
urban dwellers
Fokontany                 Locality inhabited by members of a fokonolona
IEP                       Inspecteur de l'Enseignement Primaire/Inspector
of Primary Education
Lycee                     Secondary school offering both lower and
upper secondary education
SPE                       Service Provincial  de l'Enseignement/
Regional Education Service






MADAGASCAR
BASIC DATA (Est.) - 1974
General
Area                                            590,000 km2
Population                                      9 million
Per Capita Income                               FMG  36,000(us$l70 equivalent)
Literacy Rate                                    40%
Education
Enrollments (incl. overaged students)
Primary (grades 1-6)                            1,040,000
- as a % of 6-11 age group                    68%
Lower secondary (grades 7-10)                   100,000
- as a % of 12-15 age group                   12%
Upper secondary (grades 11-13)                  23,000
- as a % of 16-18 age group                   4%
University (estimated full-time
student equivalent)                         9,000
- as a % of 19-22 age group                   1%
Recurrent expenditure of Ministry of
Education                                   FMG 10.8 billion
- as a % of government recurrent
expenditure                                25%
- as a % of GDP                               3.1%
Private expenditures on education (1972)        FMG 5 billion
External aid to education (1972)                FMG 7 billion
Total estimated expenditure on education
and training as a % of GDP                   6.7%






MADAGASCAR
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
STAFF PROJECT REPORT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
PART I - THE EDUCATION SECTOR
The Issues
i.        Although Madagascar achieved independence in 1960, the education
and training system has not yet adapted itself to the needs of the country.
A reform of the system has now begun. In the past, the goal at each level of
instruction was to prepare the students for the next higher level. This was
especially the case in the primary schools, where studies were over-literary,
with an emphasis on French, the language of instruction in secondary schools.
Primary education in turn has influenced secondary education, where most
enrollments have been in literary rather than scientific courses. Greater
attention will in future be given to instruction in Malagasy, the national
language, and to practical subjects and scientific studies which relate more
closely to the pupils' own environment.
ii.       Educational administration could be improved by decentraliza-
tion. In the past the location in Tananarive of all the decision-making
mechanisms has led to delays and has caused villagers to regard the schools
as alien institutions.
iii.      Although only about 50 percent of primary school age children were
attending school in 1974 and the pupil:teacher ratio in public primary schools
was excessively high (74:1), the Government spent 25 percent of its budget on
education. Despite the evident need for more teachers, the teacher training
colleges were far from fully enrolled because the Government did not have the
funds to employ the graduates. A very high proportion of expenditures goes to
pay teachers' salaries, and primary schools lack the simplest materials such
as books and pencils, while secondary schools lack equipment.
iv.       For these reasons and because of a rigid examination system, the
repetition and dropout rates are high: on average less than three out of
five primary school pupils are promoted to the next class at the end of the
year.
v.        It is difficult to evaluate the effectiveness of the system in
meeting manpower needs because of the lack of adequate statistics. There
is no doubt, however, that the problem of "educated unemployed" is becoming
increasingly serious: some 50,000 lower secondary leavers, of whom about
15,000 had a lower secondary school certificate, were reportedly unemployed



- ii -
by the end of 1975. Furthermore, even on conservative estimates of secondary
enrollment growth over the period from 1973 to 1985, about 170,000 young
people will leave school with at least a lower secondary education, while the
estimated number of jobs to be created requiring such levels of education is
projected at only 85,000.
Government Plans for the Sector
vi.       Government educational policy and plans calling for a radical change
in the content and delivery system are contained in the National Develop-
ment Plan 1974-1977 and in the Charter of the Malagasy Socialist Revolution
of October 1975. The Plan stressed the "democratization" and "malagasization"
of education and envisaged: (i) enrollment of all children aged 6-14 in
schools by 1987; (ii) the reform of primary education by changing the course
into a basic education course given in Malagasy and lasting five years;
(iii) greater involvenent of village associations (fokonolona) in building
primary scnools and Daying primary teachers  salaries; (iv) use of National
Servicemen as teachers; and (v)T a greater emphasis on scientif ific andtecniaia
educ-arpr- The Charter endorsed the Plan, but considered universal basic
education should be achieved much sooner by the enrollment of an additional
million children in primary schools within three years. It also stressed
the need to decentralize educational control and to provide for a technical
lyceje, and ultimately a university center, in each province.
vii.      A new basic education curriculum was worked out in 1975, with
Malagasy as the language of instruction and with emphasis on practical work
and productive activities. Plans are in hand for in-service courses for
existing teachers and a crash 3-month training course for lower secondary
school graduates, who would then fulfill their National Service obligations
by teaching in primary schools for at least two years. The Government
intends to train 9,000 National Service teachers annually; 3,000 at a time.
However, the existing teacher training facilities have a capacity of only
about 1,200 for each 3-month course, for a total annual output of 3,600 and
the use of secondary school facilities as proposed by the Government is likely
to encounter opposition from parents and pupils. The Government has recently
prepared a broad outline of its decentralization proposals and is now preparing
detailed plans for implementation.
viii.     The Government's plans to change the delivery system by the use of
National Servicemen as teachers should be given strong support. Since these
teachers will be paid only one third of the salaries of regular teachers,
their use will help lessen the financial burden mentioned above of attempting
to achieve universal basic education for the six through eleven age group with
a reasonable pupil:teacher ratio of 45:1. It is estimated this would be
possible by 1985 by devoting about 28 percent of the recurrent budget to
education, provided some 25,000 National Servicemen were used as teachers and
that new regular teachers were recruited among successful National Servicemen.
Since these new teachers would have had only limited training, they would be
employed at two thirds of existing teachers' salaries. These projections
envisage devoting 50 percent of educational expenditures to primary education,
as at present. In view of financial constraints and the present overabundance



- iii -
of secondary school leavers, it would be advisable to control secondary school
expansion so that 55 percent of the education budget could be devoted to
primary education. In this way, universal basic education could be achieved
while keeping the total education budget down to 25 percent of the national
budget.
ix.       The efforts to make basic education more relevant to local con-
ditions and employment opportunities by the use of the national language, the
employment as far as possible of teachers from the same locality as the
school, the involvement of village associations in school construction and to
some extent in school control are also steps in the right direction. They
represent the new philosophy of development from the bottom up rather than
from the top down. An essential element in this process is the decentraliza-
tion of educational control from Tananarive to the regions, as envisaged in the
Charter.
x.        To help improve scientific and technical education and to provide
more adequate equipment in secondary schools, the Government proposes to build
a Teaching Materials Production Center in Tananarive. This Center would also
assist Regional Education Centers in each provincial capital outside Tananarive
in the production of prototype materials for use in primary schools. These
developments are designed to improve educational quality and should be comple-
mented by increasing the frequency of inspectorate visits to schools and by
the provision of other fundamental teaching aids such as books.
PART II - THE PROJECT
Objectives
xi.       The proposed project would assist the Government to decentralize
educational control and to improve the quality of basic education. The
project's emphasis is on institution building and quality improvement rather
than expansion, though by training National Servicemen as teachers the pro-
posed proi-ect will provide for an increase in primary education enrollments.
xii.      Specifically, the proposed project would include:
(a) the provision of buildings, furniture and equipment
for the following institutions:
i)   ie Regional Education Centers, together with vehicles for
the schooT inspectorate; and
ii) one National Teaching Materials Production Center;
(b) textbook development;



- iv -
(c) technical assistance for:
i) the National Teaching Materials Production Center
in its initial operating stages;
ii) the statistical section of the Ministry of Education;
iii) project evaluation; and
(d) pre-investment studies for future projects.
xiii.     The proposed project was identified by an IDA mission which visited
Madagascar in March/April 1974 to review educational development plans and
priorities. The project was prepared by the Government with assistance
from UNESCO, and the project was appraised by IDA missions in December 1975
and June 1976. Negotiations were held in Washington from September 15 to
September 17, 1976. The Malagasy delegation was led by Mr. Henri Raharijaona,
Madagascar's Ambassador to France.
Five Regional Education Centers
xiv.      The Ministry of Education is represented in each of the regional
capitals by a Regional Education Service, dealing mainly with primary educa-
tion and handling such matters as accounts, audio-visual education, bur-
saries, counselling, and enforcement of education regulations. As a part
of its decentralization plans, the Government intends to upgrade these Ser-
vices into Regional Education Centers (Centres Academiques Provinciaux), which
would in addition assume responsibility for other levels and types of education
in the Regions (Section 3.02, draft Development Credit Agreement). The main
advantages which are expected from this decentralization include: (i) a more
rapid and relevant response to regional needs, and (ii) better coordination at
the local level with other services such as health and agriculture. The
definition of the functions and responsibilities of the Regional Education
Centers in a Decree by the Ministry of Education would be a condition of
effectiveness of the proposed credit (Section 5.01(a), draft Development
Credit Agreement).
xv.       In a country of Madagascar's size and diversity, this decentraliza-
tion of educational administration is essential to carry out the programs for
expansion of basic education through community efforts, to plan for the
training and deployment of the National Servicemen and to provide them with
adequate professional support and advice. The Government has recently com-
pleted a broad outline of its plans for educational decentralization, and
has agreed, within one year of signing the Development Credit Agreement,
to provide detailed implementation proposals to the Association, including
information on the autonomy of its provincial services and future teacher
appointments (Section 4.03, draft Development Credit Agreement).
xvi.      The project would provide accommodation for a Regional Education
Center in each regional capital outside Tananarive - i.e., in Diego Suarez,
Fianarantsoa, Majunga, Tamatave and Tulear. Each Center would also provide



120 places for training lower secondary school certificate holders as teachers
in fulfillment of their National Service obligations; 60 percent of the Center
facilities would be for training and 40 percent for administration.
The training would las V hree months-and9,be given by educational counsellors/
inspectors who have al                en special instruction in the aims and
methods of the reform at seminars held in Tananarive. In-service courses for
existing teachers would be given during school vacations. A workshop would be
included in the facilities where training would be given in making simple
primary school teaching aids from locally available materials.
xvii.     There are 95 sub-prefectures responsible for day-to-day school
supervision and inspection. They are administered by school districts under
the direction of the Regional Education Services. The sub-prefectures have
inadequate transportation facilities and the project would supply one vehicle
for each of them in order to increase the number of school visits. An
improvement in the inspectorate back-up services to the schools would rein-
force the implementation of the educational reform, and help the National
Service teachers, who would have had only 3 months of training.
National Teaching Materials Production Center
xviii.    The great majority of the 126 public secondary schools in Madagascar
lack the equipment necessary to teach scientific and practical subjects.
Imported equipment is expensive and often oversophisticated. Based on costs
of imported equipment, it is estimated that to equip the schools reasonably
would cost about US$5 million equivalent, and annual equipment replacement
costs would be US$500,000. By producing equipment locally as far as possible,
these costs could be reduced by up to 50 percent. The proposed project would
build in Tananarive a National Teaching Materials Production Center, including
an adequate machine shop, electrical shop and fitting facilities to enable a
wide range of scientific equipment to be manufactured. The Center would be
designed so that, after experience is gained, it could be expanded to meet the
needs of all the secondary schools, including private schools. The Center
would provide facilities for training teachers in the use of the equipment and
new accommodation for the Curriculum Research and Development Bureau of the
Ministry of Education. It would also design primary school equipment and make
prototypes with instruction sheets for distribution to the Regional Education
Centers. The National Teaching Materials Production Center was legally
established in September 1976.
xix.      The Government has agreed that the Center will be adequately
staffed and provided with sufficient funds for the purchase of materials
and general operations (Section 3.03, draft Development Credit Agreement).
Technical assistance in the setting up and during the initial operations of
the Center is essential and the proposed project would include finance for
a 6-man technical assistance team. It may not be necessary to seek all of
these experts abroad as some of Madagascar's light engineering industries
already employ suitably experienced persons who could fill the required
positions. The Government has agreed that qualified experts will be employed
on terms and conditions acceptable to the Association (Section 3.06, draft



- vi -
Development Credit Agreement). The appointment of the production/industrial
engineer and the design expert of the technical assistance team would be a
condition of effectiveness of the proposed credit (Section 5.01 (b), draft
Development Credit Agreement). Fellowships to train Malagasy staff abroad
would also be provided under the proposed project.
Textbook Development
xx.       With regard to teaching aids, primary schools in Madagascar are
even more poorly equipped than secondary schools: most of them lack books,
pencils and paper. A new basic education curriculum has been developed
and is presently being adapted into syllabus material, student and teacher
guides, which will be given a more permanent textbook form after an experi-
mental period. The project would supply part of the paper needed for this
work and would help the institutions with textbook development and distribu-
tion by providing adequate premises for the Curriculum Research and Devel-
opment Bureau and transport to the schools: over the period of the project
some four million student guides and textbooks would be produced in Malagasy
for the main subject areas of Malagasy, mathematics, environmental studies
and practical work. The texts would be written by qualified staff under the
supervision of the Curriculum Research and Development Bureau and printed
by the educational books section of the National Press, which has excel-
lent printing and book production equipment. The printed material would be
delivered to schools by educational counsellors/inspectors, who would also
instruct the teachers in its use.
Educational Statistics, Planning and Evaluation
xxi.      Educational planning in Madagascar suffers from an inadequate
base, both in regard to educational statistics and to information on the
numbers, types and locations of school buildings. The project would provide
technical assistance to help rationalize the system within the framework of
the Government's decentralization plans. It would also provide funds for the
ongoing evaluation of the project and for visits by government staff concerned
with the project to other countries whose experience would be relevant to the
Madagascar situation. The Government has confirmed that proposals for the
evaluation studies regarding the administration and management of the education
sector at the provincial level, school curricula and the Government's teacher
training program for the National Servicemen will be prepared and sent to the
Association for review within 12 months of signing the Development Credit
Agreement (Section 3.07, draft Development Credit Agreement).
Project Cost and Financing
xxii      The total estimated cost of the proposed project is US$17.5 million
equivalent, excluding taxes estimated at US$1.8 million, with a foreign ex-
change component of US$9.1 million. The proposed IDA credit of US$14 million
would finance 80 percent of the total project cost net of taxes and would
cover the entire foreign exchange cost and US$4.9 million of local expenditures.
The Government would finance the remaining project cost. A summary cost table
and the proposed financing plan are as follows:



- vii -
Summary Cost Table (including Taxes)
US$ (Millions)------
Local    Foreign    Total  % of Total
1.   Regional Education Centers,
National Teaching Materials
Production Center, and
Textbook Development                   5.77       5.39     11.16       58
2.   Architectural/Engineering
Services, Technical
Assistance, Project Evaluation
and Administration                     1.08       1.18      2.26       12
3.   Contingencies:  Physical
and Price Increases                    3.29       2.55      5.84       30
Total Project Cost                    10.14       9.12     19.26      100
-- of which taxes                      1.78         -        1.78       9
Financing Plan (excluding taxes)
IDA Credit                             4.88       9.12     14.00       80
Government Contribution                3.48         -       3.48       20
8.36      9.12      17.48      100
Project Implementation
xxiii.    A project implementation unit has been set up in the Ministry of
Public Works. At full strength, it would comprise a director, a construc-
tion coordinator and an education liaison officer, and adequate supporting
staff (Section 3.04, draft Development Credit Agreement). The director,
construction coordinator and education liaison officer have already been
appointed. Madagascar-based architectural consultants have been appointed.
Sketch designs for the Regional Eduction Centers have been reviewed by the
Association. The consultants are preparing final designs and will also be
responsible for the supervision of construction. Sketch design for the
National Teaching Materials Production Center will be prepared after the
recruitment of technical assistance personnel for the planning and operation
of the center.
Procurement and Disbursements
xxiv.     Contracts for civil works, furniture, equipment and materials,
including paper, costing more than US$50,000 equivalent would be awarded
on the basis of international competitive bidding. Contracts costing less



- viii -
than US$50,000 equivalent would be awarded on the basis of local competitive
bidding procedures, which have been reviewed by the Association and are
considered satisfactory. The aggregate amount of these contracts is not
expected to exceed US$500,000 equivalent and the Association's review of
tender evaluation documents in respect of such contracts prior to award would
not be necessary. Items would be grouped under arrangements satisfactory to
the Association so as to encourage competition and bulk procurement. Where
international competitive bidding procedures are used, qualified domestic
civil works contractors would be allowed a margin of preference of 7-1/2
percent over the tender prices of competitors, and domestic manufacturers of
furniture and equipment would be allowed a preference of 15 percent, or the
existing rate of customs duties, whichever is lower, over the c.i.f. price of
competing suppliers.
xxv.      Disbursements would be made on the basis of (a) 65 percent of total
expenditures for civil works; (b) 100 percent of foreign expenditures for
directly imported furniture, instructional equipment, vehicles and materials;
100 percent of ex-factory cost of these items when locally manufactured; or 80
percent of local expenditures when otherwise procured locally; (c) 100 percent
of foreign expenditures and 50 percent of local expenditures for technical
assistance, fellowships and project evaluation; (d) 80 percent of total
administrative and operational expenditures; and (e) 80 percent of total
expenditures for architectural engineering consultants' services. Disburse-
ments would be fully documented, except disbursements for (d). These would be
against certificates of expenditures, documentation for which would not be
submitted for review, but would be retained by the borrower and be available
for inspection by the Association during the course of project supervision.
xxvi.     Retroactive reimbursement of a sum not exceeding US$200,000 equiva-
lent for expenditures approved by the Association and incurred after March 1,
1976 is recommended for: (i) the services of consultant architects for the
preparation of sketch plans for the project institutions; (ii) Project Unit
expenditures; and (iii) technical assistance for the National Teaching Mate-
rials Production Center (Schedule 1, paragraph 4, draft Development Credit
Agreement).
Benefits and Risks
xxvii.    Fundamental changes must be made in the content of education and
its delivery if the educational and training system of Madagascar is to meet
the needs of mass participation in development. The emphasis of the proposed
project is on helping implement these changes. Educational quality and
relevance at the primary level would be provided by training facilities for
National Service teachers, whose employment would enable the excessive number
of pupils per teacher to be reduced, and by assisting inspectorate visits to
schools and the production of new curricula and textbooks. Secondary edu-
cation would be improved by encouraging the local production of equipment and
by training teachers in its use. The local administration of education would
be assisted by the provision of decentralized facilities. The proposed
project would train some 1,800 National Service teachers a year, or 20 percent
of the total number required; it would provide a textbook and student guide in



- ix -
each main study area for about one million primary pupils and about half the
estimated equipment needs of secondary schools in Madagascar.
xxviii.   The principal risks re]ate to an incomplete definition of the
Government's plans for educational decentralization and to its lack of expe-
rience in managing a teaching materials production center. There is a risk
that the teaching facilities in the regional education centers may, for
instance, be used for administrative purposes, and that the materials pro-
duction center would function inefficiently. Attempts have been made to
minimize these risks by requesting the Government to furnish detailed pro-
posals for the implementation of the decentralization plans (see para. xv
above) and by providing technical assistance for the production center. In
addition all items will be monitored closely.






I. DEVELOPMENT AND HUMAN RESOURCES
Socio-Economic Background
1.01      Madagascar is an island in the Indian Oceae about 400 km. off the
southeast coast of Africa with an area of 592,000 km . which is slightly
larger than France.  The population, however, is only about nine million and
very unevenly distributed with an average density of 15 people per km . The
climate and physical features vary greatly from the hot tropical lowland
coastal areas to the cooler sub-tropical conditions of the central highlands
where the capital of Tananarive is located. The topography often makes over-
land travel difficult.
1.02      The population is composed of 18 ethnic groups of mixed Asian and
African origin. All speak Malagasy, the national language, but the different,
though mutually understandable, dialects spoken throughout the island accen-
tuate the ethnic differences. Despite the fact that all groups share similar
cultural traditions, there are social and political rivalries between the
highland and the coastal peoples. The highland people are economically and
culturally more advanced.
1.03      There are marked inequalities in income between regions.  Whereas
areas such as Tananarive are quite developed, many areas are almost com-
pletely underdeveloped with widespread poverty, poor nutrition, high infant
mortality and limited opportunity for education or advancement.  The rich
cultivated land of the high plateau provides a striking contrast with the
arid southern region where the population barely subsists.
1.04      Madagascar has a pronounced dual economy divided between a small
modern sector and the traditional rural sector. Overall per capita income
was estimated at US$170 in 1974, but even in this good year for agriculture,
the average rural per capita income was estimated at less than US$100.
Real GDP, which had increased by 5% per annum between 1966 and 1971, has
not increased during the last four years, and per capita GDP has thus declined.
Agriculture supports 85% of the population and is the source of about 80%
of foreign exchange earnings. The failure of rice production to expand as
fast as the population and an inadequate marketing system have led to a need
for considerable rice imports causing foreign exchange reserves to fall to
a critical level. The effects of the generally weak performance of the
Malagasy economy have been exacerbated by a worsening in the terms of trade
during recent years.
National and Regional Administration
1.05      For administrative purposes, Madagascar is divided into 6 provinces,
18 prefectures, 95 sub-prefectures and over 200 cantons. However, control is
highly centralized in Tananarive. Although a governor is the chief executive
of each province and is responsible for the provincial administration, all
policy decisions are made in Tananarive and are mostly carried out by the
regional representatives of the principal ministries (education, agriculture,
public works, health, etc.) at the provincial and prefectural levels. Until



- 2 -
1973, a provincial budget financed the basic expenses of local administration
as well as primary education, health services and secondary and tertiary
roads. Although the taxes were levied by the provincial officials, they had
no authority to de^cide 6   tource of
revenue otne  rovinc al budget-was the tax on adult males and a tax on
cattle; these unpopular taxes were abolished in 1973 when the central govern-
ment assumed the responsibility of financing all elements previously covered
by the provincial budgets.
1.06      In 1972, in line with its socialist objectives to promote develop-
ment and decision-making from the bottom up, the Government undertook a major
reorientation of local administration through a reform of local government.
The new system is based on the traditional community, the fokonolona and when
the reform is completed, there will be a four tier hierarchy of representative
institutions that will ultimately replace the current administrative hierarchy
based on the   ench administrative system (province, prefecture, sub-prefecture,
canton, comp ne).  As a first step in the reform, the administrative functions
of the c  munes (the lowest level in the hicrarchy) were dissolved in 1973 as
villag   throughout Madagascar began organizing themselves into fokonolona
whic  group an average of three villages each.  Naturally, the specifications
details of the reform will evolve over time and it will take several
years before the reform is fully completed.
Decentralization of Government Structure
1.07      The major aims of the Government embodied in the National Development
Plan 1974-77 place great emphasis on a broad strategy for fundamental reform
of Malagasy society and government administration. The basic objective is
to create a socialist and democratic system at all levels of political, admin-
istrative and economic decision-making and to ensure the participation of the
people in all aspects of development.
1.08 /-  A fokonolona is a basic community grouping of between 500 and 2,000
vil),xgers or urban dwellers and the fokontany is the locality inhabited by
is community.  The formal organization of the 10,000 fokonolona which began
in 1973 is nearly complete in the rural areas and was started in the urban
areas during 1975. The powers and responsibilities of the fokonolona are
articulated at length in Ordinance 73009 of August 3, 1973 and include
jurisdiction over public order, land questions, mutual assistance, primary
education, public health, regulation of social disputes, and general economic
and development matters. The fokonolona has no formal budget but can make
collections from its members for development purposes and borrow money. Its
members elect an executive committee of seven to fifteen people to represent
them and assume basic administrative functions. Sub-committees are elected
to deal with individual sectors. The treasurer who serves on the executive
committee and the economic sub-committee (vatoeka) handles the community
bank account and provides annual financial statements to the National
Treasury. In 1975 the fokonolona throughout Madagascar had nearly FMG 2
billion in savings, unevenly divided between regions. Revenue is raised
by selling the agricultural products grown in the communal plot and by
charging a commission for handling the sale of the produce grown by



- 3 -
individuals. This has to some extent taken the place of the head and
cattle tax. The vatoeka stores the agricultural products and sells them
to the state marketing  'gan a  a 1 ion w   has agents at the local level.
Many vatoeka ha,&  itrtaken various deve opment projects such as the con-
struction of Troads, communal buildings anJ small irrigation projects.
Approximiately 3,000 primary schools had s$een built by the end of 1975.
1.09      Ti< second level in thi" Kerarchy is the firaisam-pokonolona,
whose organizatYc -was"ag-ur i'1n late 1973.  Between five to ten fokonolona
in assembly designate representatives to the firaisam-pokonolona, which cor-
responds in size roughly to the former communes. Organization of the
third and fourth level institutions has yet to begin. The third level in
the new hierarchy will be the fivondronam-pokonolona, corresponding roughly
to the current sub-prefecture. Members of this body will be elected by the
firaisam-pokonolona and it will have a formal budget. The national ministries
will have field offices at this level, and there will be a technical committee
that will assist the representatives on technical matters. The fourth level
will be the faritany, the primary function of which will be the administration
of economic development activities. The faritany will be elected by consti-
tuent fivondronam-pokonolona, and its jurisdiction will correspond roughly
to that of the current prefectures. The faritany will have development budgets
and will have authority to raise revenues and borrow.
1.10      The Charter of the Malagasy Socialist Revolution, published in
October 1975, supports the objectives of the Plan, and calls for an urgent
change from an overcentralized government administration to a decentralized
structure with the fokonolona as its base. The Charter elaborates on the
responsibilities and the functions of the fokonolona which is considered as
the key to successful implementation of the three main objectives of the
Malagasy socialist revolution. The Charter gives particular emphasis to:
(i) rural development to increase incomes and services in the poorest areas;
(ii) land reform to redistribute the land requiring organization of farmers
into cooperatives; (iii) greater direct state participation in commerce and
industry; and (iv) basic education.
1.11      Administration of all government services as well as decision-
making responsibility is being decentralized. However, given the fact that
the present Government has been in office only since June 1975, details about
the implementation of the decentralization measures have yet to be finalized,
especially regarding the degree of supervision, control and assistance the
central authorities will eventually exercise.
Employment Trends
1.12      The results of the first national census will be published in 1976,
giving Madagascar a set of comprehensive data on population and employment.
The population is estimated to be nine million with an active population
of rather more than four million which is increasing at a rate of 2.5% p.a.
In 1973, 80% of the labor force was in the rural sector, mostly in self-
employment. According to the National Development Plan 1974-77, wage employ-
ment in 1973 was 573,000 or 14% of the labor force distributed as follows:



- 4 -
Wage Employment
1973
Sector                               Employees
Agriculture                                        145,000
Industry                                           109,000
Construction                                        46,000
Government                                          99,000
Other Services                                     174,000
573,000
1.13      The Plan projected an increase of 58,000 new salaried jobs during
the period 1973-1977. In the light of the poor performance of GDP since
the formulation of the Plan, Bank Group staff have made revised projections.
It is now estimated that about 40,000 new jobs will be created during this
period, with an additional 6,000 jobs becoming vacant by 1977 due to
malagasization. Wage employment would thus grow by only 11,000 p.a. while the
active population would increase by 100,000 each year. Nearly 90% of the
entrants to the labor force would thus not be able to find wage employment.
This slow growth of the economy is due to: (i) the stagnation in agricultural
output; (ii) the sharp drop in the investment rate causing a virtual standstill
in the construction sector and other industries; and (iii) the slowdown in the
growth of the public sector. 1/
1.14      In the longer term, and assuming a real growth rate of GDP and wage
employment of 4.5% p.a. from 1977-1985, about 260,000 new jobs would be
created during the 1977-85 period. However, the active population is expected
to increase by nearly one million from 1977-1985 and consequently, long-term
wage employment opportunities will not improve greatly. About 75% of the
people joining the labor force between 1977 and 1985 will have to derive their
livelihood from self-employment in the rural sector.
Educated Manpower Need and Supply
1.15      Due to the lack of reliable data, it is difficult to estimate
educated manpower requirements. Of the 300,000 new salaried jobs which are
expected to be created between 1973 and 1985 (paras. 1.13 and 1.14), it is
estimated that one-third would need at least a primary education, and of
these, one-half would need at least a lower secondary education. The total
needs, including those arising from malagasization, death and retirement,
and those in the non-wage sector are estimated as follows:
1/   The number of government employees which had been increasing has levelled
off since 1972.



1973-1985 Educated Manpower Needs
Due to                     At least primary       At least lower secondary
1. Wage employment
(i)  New employment              100,000                       50,000
(ii)  Malagasization               10,000                       10,000
(iii)  Death and retirement         50,000                       25,000
2. Non-wage employment                 50,000
210,000                       85,000
1.16      While these figures must be regarded as indicative only of orders
of magnitude due to the weak statistical base, it thus appears that the
Malagasy economy will have an annual need of only some 7-8,000 graduates
with at least a lower secondary certificate. However, not only is it esti-
mated that some 50,000 lower secondary leavers are at present unemployed of
whom 15,000-b-rhold-a--f  wecon-ri-c-io=-ce-r--ut-TEV- fenwi--output
of the university and secondary levels alone is 17,500 1/: lower secondary -
14,000 p.a.; upper secondary - 3,000 p.a.; university - 500 p.a. This output
is steadily increasing. In addition, about 37,000 students a year complete
the six years of primary education but do not continue their education.
Salaries are often linked to educational qualifications and employers can
often find workers without formal qualifications who are willing to work for
much less than the "qualified" school leavers.  The numbeX_u;f__Pj"Q."e  n-
employed is thus likely to continue to grow, involving high social and
6conomiccot
Conclusions
1.17      This overview of development issues in Madagascar points to the
following implications for manpower and human resources:
(a) the organization, management and planning of the sector
should be aligned with the new government structure
centered on the fokonolona and featuring a large
degree of decentralization (paras. 1.07-1.11);
(b) as the large majority of the school leavers would
continue to find employment outlets only in the
agricultural sector (paras. 1.13, 1.14), the content
and the medium of instruction should prepare them
for productive participation in rural communities;
and
1/   Defined as all persons leaving school or university regardless of whether
they obtained a diploma or certificate.



- 6 -
(c) expansion of outputs from secondary and post-secondary
education needs to be strictly controlled (para. 1.16).
II. THE EDUCATION AND TRAINING SECTOR
Administrative Structure
2.01      The administrative structure of the Ministry of National Educa-
tion is given in Chart 2.1. This Ministry now controls all levels of the
educational system, but the Directorate of Higher Education was estab-
lished in the Ministry as recently as 1974. Educational control is very
centralized. The Ministry is represented in the six provincial capitals
by a Regional Education Service (Service Provincial de l'Enseignement -
SPE), which ensures that the policies of the central authorities are
carried out. The SPEs are headed by an Inspector of Primary Education and are
concerned mainly with primary education; however, even at this level the SPE
has no power to appoint teachers.
2.02      Other Ministries have responsibilities for training personnel
in their own specialized fields, e.g., the Ministry of Public Works runs
a center for workmen and commercial employees; the Ministry of Rural Devel-
opment trains agricultural technicians. The Ministry of the Interior is
responsible for training village (fokonolona) leaders and runs literacy
campaigns in the country; with the future emphasis on decentralization, it
is expected that these programs for the fokonolona will increase in
importance.
Structure of the Education System
2.03      This is given in Chart 2.2.  The present system comprises a six-
year primary course officially beginning at age six; however, many small
schools in rural areas only offer a four-year course. Lower secondary
education given in colleges and the more prestigious lycees lasts four years
and upper secondary (given only in the lycees) three. Higher education
courses last from two to six years. Under a new structure being developed by
the Government, the primary level of education would last five years; lower
level secondary education would last four years and the upper level three.
Higher education courses are likely to comprise three modules of two years
each. The planning for these changes is at a very early stage, but a new
five-year primary curriculum has already been developed.
Content of Education
2.04      Although Madagascar achieved independence in 1960, little change
in curriculum content had been made by 1972, and progress since then has
been slow due to the rapid political changes.  Primary education has   -
emphasized French, the language of instruction in secondary sCo  s,   d
the primary curriculum has been largely a preparation for khe examinatioW   }
to enter secondary schools.  The curriculum has thus been \ver-literary.  ,'



- 7 -
The time allocated for practical work remained at less than 10% between 1955
and 1973, and science and environmental studies have also been neglected.
2.05      At the secondary and higher levels, the system has followed closely
the French pattern with a view to the maintenance of the equivalence of the
baccalaureate and university degrees. The different and compartmentalized
baccalaureate options have frequently led to uneconomically sized classes.
There has been a concentration on arts subjects and law and a relative
neglect of scientific and technical studies.
Enrollment Growth
2.06      Educational statistics in Madagascar are subject to considerable
degrees of uncertainty. Primary enrollments in 1974 totalled just over a
million; after increasing by over 7% annually from 1966-1972, they have
remained substantially constant over the last two years. Enrollments are
equivalent to about 68% of the primary school age group but because of
the large number of overaged children, probably less than 50% of primary
school age children are in fact attending school. About 20% of the enroll-
ment is in private schools. Annex 2.1 gives details of the growth in
enrollments between 1966 and 1974 and Chart 2.3 the 1974 education pyramid.
2.07      General secondary enrollments totalled 115,000 in 1974, of which
about 20,000 in the upper cycle. They more than doubled between 1966 and
1972 (an average increase of 12-1/2% p.a.) and are continuing to increase
at about 4% annually. About one-half the enrollment is in private schools.
Vocational and technical secondary schools had an enrollment of about 8,000
in 1974. Total lower secondary enrollments amounted to 12% of the age group,
and upper secondary 4.2%. With the introduction of a credit system (unites de
valeur) and part-time studies into the University in 1973, total enrollments
are difficult to estimate; the full-time student equivalent in 1974 was about
9,000, some 1% of the age group, of whom over 6,000 were in the first two
years. University enrollments have increased rapidly in recent years, having
more than doubled between 1970 and 1974.
Education Finance
2.08      From 1961 to 1971 the annual growth rate of public recurrent
expenditure in current prices was 10.5%, 2.3% higher than that of GDP
and 2.9% higher than total recurrent expenditures. This rapid increase
reflected mainly the considerable increase in both primary and secondary
enrollments during the period. Growth in these enrollments has levelled
off since 1972, but recurrent educational expenditures have continued to
rise by over 11% p.a. in current prices, mainly due to inflation. In
1974, as is seen from the table below, these expenditures amounted to
25% of total government recurrent expenditures, or 3.1% of GDP. Annex 2.2
gives more details.



- 8 -
Recurrent Educational Expenditures in Relation to
GDP & Total Recurrent Expenditures 1972-76
(in billions of FMG)
1972    1973   1974   1975       1976
(est.)  (budget)
1. GDP (current prices)                   272.0  288.0  351.0  389.0    434.0
2. Total Government Recurrent
Expenditures                            42.1   40.5   42.9   47.0       62.0
- of which Provincial Expenditures       6.1    -       -        -        -
3. Total Government Recurrent
Educational Expenditures                 8.7    9.8   10.8   11.0       15.5
- of which Provincial Expenditures       4.6      -     -       -
(3) as % of (1)                           3.2    3.4    3.1    2.8        3.6
(3) as % of (2)                          21      24    25      23        25
2.09      Total educational recurrent expenditures, both private and public,
are however much greater than these figures would indicate. In 1972, the last
year for which the relevant data are available, expenditures on private educa-
tion were estimated at FMG 5 billion and external aid amounted to some FMG 7
billion, reflecting the high salaries paid to foreigners. The total 1974
expenditure on education is thus likely to have amounted to about 7% of GDP,
a comparatively high figure in view of the high primary pupil:teacher ratio
and the relatively low primary enrollment ratio.
2.10      Government capital investments in education in 1974 totalled
FMG 1.7 billion, or 13% of the amount expended under the National Economic
Development Fund. Primary education was relatively neglected; it received
less than one-fifth of the amount spent. Nor have foreign aid agencies made
any important investments in education since 1972.
2.11      The total 1974 government capital and recurrent expenditures on
education thus totalled FMG 12.5 billion, amounting to 22.1% of total govern-
ment expenditures. This is somewhat above the median for African countries
and the upper quartile for the world as is seen from the table of Comparative
Education Indicators annexed.
2.12      No fees are paid in public sector schools at any level, although
in certain cases payments are made by parents to employ teachers additional
to those on the government establishment. The costs to the Government in
1974 amounted to about FMG 7,000 per pupil in primary school, FMG 20,000
in first cycle secondary, FMG 80,000 in second cycle secondary, and over
FMG 100,000 in technical and professional courses. The annual cost per
university student is estimated at between FMG 300,000 and FMG 400,000



- 9 -
or over ten times the per capita income. 1/ These costs are relatively
high except in the case of primary education where the pupil-teacher ratio
is excessively high. As will be elaborated below, teachers' salaries absorb
a very high percentage of recurrent funds and insufficient amounts are avail-
able for teaching aids and equipment.
Problems of the System
2.13      In the pre-independence period and in the years immediately
afterwards, the main aim of the school system was to produce white collar
workers for the modern sector, particularly for employment in government.
Stress was laid on French, and studies in the local language were neglected.
Insufficient attention was paid to practical work and scientific studies
with the result that the country became largely dependent on expatriates
in these areas. This bias towards a literary formation was followed even
in the 4-year primary schools'in riural areas (para. 2.03) whose pupils have
onl minimal possibilities of entering  sgnAr  scnoQis.  They thus received
an education wich alienated them from village life A Bcause of this some
parents are reluctant to send their children to schoI >   However, the new
' Government<i^_acutel>>wgrerioF -ienemS'toE transform the system so that it
will provide the human resources needed to build a self-reliant socialist
society and promote mass participation in development.
2.14      Another major problem confronting the education system is that
of administration and management. This problem has two aspects - first is
the lack of capable and experienced personnel, and second an overcentraliza-
tion of decision-making in Tananarive. The first is a natural result of
the departure of French administrators. This problem should steadily resolve
itself as Malagasy personnel gain experience. More stability in staffing
would assist: the present turnover of staff in the Ministry of Education
is much too high for effective administration. With the return to greater
political stability, this problem is likely to be resolved. Improved
methods for the collection and analysis of educational and financial
statistics would enable the planning unit of the Ministry of Education to
function more effectively.
2.15      The overcentralization of decision-making in Tananarive is such that
the appointment of every primary school teacher and the program of studies
have to be approved by the central ministry: where secondary school teachers
are concerned, not only do the central authorities decide on appointment
but also on the individual school to which the teacher will be assigned.
This has led to the following problems: (i) the primary schools are regarded
as alien institutions by the villagers; (ii) the existing animosities and
suspicions between the highland and coastal peoples are exacerbated; (iii) it
is difficult to adapt national policies to particular local conditions and
1/   This is approximately the norm for countries of the Eastern Africa Region
(9.25 times the GNP per capita). The range is considerable - from twice
the GNP per capita in Mauritius to 34 times in Tanzania.



- 10 -
this has led to a lack of communication and coordination with other services
at the local level; and (iv) capable administrators in the provinces become
very dissatisfied with their lack of responsibility and constantly seek
transfer to Tananarive.
2.16      The cost and financing of education are also problems.  As indicated
above, although only some 50% of the primary school age group is enrolled in
schools and there are on average 74 pupils per teacher in the public schools,
educational recurrent expenditures already account for some 25% of total
government expenditure. The burden of educational expenditure is thus heavy;
unless drastic changes are made in the delivery system, it is likely to
increase as efforts are made to achieve universal basic education while
maintaining the proportion of students going on to secondary education.
2.17      Mainly because of this financial stringency, the pupil:teacher
ratio in public primary schools is extremely high, nearly 74:1. Effective
teaching with such large numbers at this level is not possible granted the
conditions in the schools, and as a result the educational base of the country
is extremely weak. Many of the primary schools in rural areas have only
one classroom and the same teacher teaches different groups (usually two
groups of two classes each) in the morning and afternoon: this system is
probably more effective than to attempt whole day schooling for an over-
large group. In the private primary schools the pupil:teacher ratio is
a more reasonable 41:1. Despite the evident need for more teachers, the
teacher training colleges in 1974 were far from fully enrolled because the
Government did not have the funds to employ the graduates. By the end of
1975, they enrolled no students whatever because of the Government's plans
to use them to train National Servicemen as teachers. In contrast to the
primary level, pupil:teacher ratios in secondary schools are reasonable;
in fact, this ratio is low (19:1) in the public second cycle schools because
of the existence of uneconomically small classes in some schools as a result
of the various baccalaureate options (para. 2.05).
2.18      At both primary and secondary levels the supply of teaching aids
is grossly inadequate. Most primary schools lack the simplest materials such
as books and pencils, while secondary schools lack equipment. At the primary
level, 96% of the expenditures go to meet teachers' salaries, indicating
that the schools receive virtually no funds for maintenance and teaching
materials. Because of the centralized control, the villagers are not in-
clined to help maintain the schools, and the SPEs feel they have no power
over and hence responsibility for school maintenance and the supply of
teaching aids. Secondary general schools (where 90% of recurrent costs
are accounted for by teachers' salaries) and technical and vocational schools
(85%) generally suffer from a lack of equipment and inadequate maintenance.
2.19      The statistics on dropout and repetition rates are shown below:



- 11 -
AVERAGE PRIMARY SCHOOL PROMOTION, REPEATER AND DROPOUT RATES
(as % of Grade Enrollment)
Prior to 1972                          1972-1974
Grade    Promotion  Repeater  Dropout         Promotion  Repeater  Dropout
Rate       Rate      Rate           Rate        Rate       Rate
1       (100)        41        10            (100)          29       25
2          49        27        10              46           17       19
3          63        25        12              64           16       21
4          63        26        19              63           19       29
5          55        19         9              52           12       14
6          72        30        30              74           24       31
(7)         40                                  45
Average       57       28        15              57           20       23
It will be seen from both tables that less than three out of five students
in any year are promoted to the next class.  Because of this, it has been
estimated that the actual costs of producing a primary school leaver with
a certificate are more than three times what they could be. Dropout and
repeater rates in secondary education are also high and it has been cal-
culated that the costs of producing a lower secondary graduate are some ten
times those theoretically necessary. The effectiveness of the system in
meeting manpower needs has been discussed in paras. 1.15 and 1.16, which
indicates that the output of secondary school leavers has exceeded needs
considerably.
Government Plans for the Sector
2.20      These are contained in the National Development Plan 1974-1977
whose main planks are those of "democratization" and "malagasization", and are
described at some length in the President's Charter of the Malagasy Socialist
Revolution of October 1975. The Charter stressed "decentralization" as an
aspect of democratization and the important role that education had to play in
the achievement of the Malagasy socialist revolution. The democratization
policy aims at giving basic education to all and equal chances of continuing
education; that of decentralization recognizes that educational control and
the provision of facilities have been overcentralized in Tananarive; the
policy of malagasization seeks to achieve a harmony between educational
content and delivery system, on the one hand, and the principles of the
revolution on the other, and, in particular, lays stress on the development
of education in the national language.



- 12 -
2.21      The Plan envisaged the following developments:
(a) enrollment of all children aged 6-14 in schools by
1987;
(b)  the existing primary education system to be replaced
as soon as possible by a new reformed basic education
course - education de base - given mainly in
Malagasy and lasting five years;
(c) the building of basic education schools and the payment
of teachers in the first grades by village associations
(fokonolona) assisted by the Government;
(d) the use of unemployed lower secondary school graduates
to teach the first three years of the basic education
course in fulfillment of their National Service obliga-
tions; and
(e) public secondary and higher education to be developed
in relation to the country's manpower needs and with
greater emphasis on technical subjects. It is envisaged
that 40% of primary school leavers would go on to
secondary schools (about the same proportion as now
finds places) and that the remaining 60% would be given
some form of post-primary schooling.
Thus, drastic changes in the delivery system (c) and (d) and content (b)
are seen as the prerequisite to achieving mass education (a) and (e).
2.22      Implementation of the Plan has been slow due largely to the rapid
political changes. Primary school enrollments have increased much less
rapidly than was envisaged when the Plan was written. However, a new cur-
ricula for the basic education course using the local language as the medium
of instruction has been developed by the Curriculum Research and Development
Bureau. French will be taught as a second language from the second year
onward; the proportion of time spent in practical work will be nearly doubled,
and increased emphasis laid on simple science related to the pupils' own
environment. This new curriculum has been approved by the Ministry. In
order to implement the curriculum through a new delivery system, plans are
also in hand for a crash 3-month teacher training course for lower secondary
school graduates who would then fulfill their National Service obligations by
teaching in primary schools for at least two years.
2.23      The Charter generally endorses the Plan's proposals, but considers
that universal basic education should be achieved much more rapidly than
the Plan envisaged: the Charter speaks of enrolling an additional one million
pupils in primary schools within the next three years. Following the publica-
tion of the Charter, the Ministry of Education now hopes to train 18,000
National Servicemen as teachers over the next two years. The Charter also



- 13 -
lays more stress on decentralization: in addition to the construction of
Regional Education Centers in each Region (already envisaged in the Plan)
and of a Teaching Materials Production Center in Tananarive, it is intended
to create a technical lycee in each provincial capital, and to extend univer-
sity level education in the Regions also. Following the endorsement of the
new constitution by the referendum of December 1975, intensive efforts are
being made by the Ministry of Education to put the new policies into effect:
since January 1976 seminars have been conducted by the main divisions (primary,
secondary, technical, and higher education) to reorient education inspectors,
counsellors and teachers in the new education content and delivery system.
Teachers guides have been drawn up and student guides and other teaching
materials are being elaborated.
Assessment of Government Plans
2.24      Taken by and large, the Government plans represent a bold and
imaginative approach to the problems of educational development in Madagascar.
The new basic education curriculum with Malagasy as the language of instruc-
tion should certainly respond better to Madagascar's needs than the old
curriculum; however, it will need to be revised as experience is gained in its
use. Further, the problems of introducing this 5-year curriculum into small
one-classroom schools in rural areas need further study. This done, it should
be possible to resolve some of the problems mentioned in para. 2.13.
2.25      Granted the size and difficulties in communications in Madagascar,
the decentralization of educational control is an essential element of any
strategy based on a large degree of community involvement and designed to
reorientate the system. It would also help in the solution of the problems
indicated in para. 2.15. Although the Government's decentralization plans
are more advanced than some other countries of the Eastern Africa Region
(e.g., Tanzania and Ethiopia), important details are still being worked out
and will be submitted to the Association in due course. Definitive decisions
need to be made on such questions as the financial arrangements for central
and provincial services; coordination between the provinces and the central
government of provincial educational and other services; how questions of
equity in education would be dealt with; what autonomy the provinces would
have in the appointment of teachers; how teachers at various levels would be
recruited, and so on. Government policy in these matters can be expected to
evolve over time and as experience is gained in the actual implementation of
decentralization; in the meantime, improved facilities in the provincial
capitals are urgently needed.
2.26      The widespread use of National Servicemen as basic education
teachers together with the improvement in the supply of teaching aids and
pedagogical advice and supervision should be given strong support. These
teachers will be paid only one-third the wages of a regular teacher, thus
helping to solve the financial problem outlined in paras. 2.16 through 2.18.
In turn, this should enable the primary school pupil:teacher ratio to be
reduced from its present high level and educational efficiency to be improved
(para. 2.19). The best of the National Servicemen after their two years
service will be taken on as teachers. As they would then have had two years



- 14-
experience in the classroom, it should be possible by careful selection to
ensure a better standard compared to those students who have gone through a
very literary teacher-training program.
2.27      The enrollment and budgetary implications of the Charter, assuming
18,000 National Servicemen are used as teachers at reduced salaries, are given
in Annex 2.3. Nearly 30% of the government recurrent budget would be taken
by education in 1979, a high percentage; however a part of this expenditure
may be borne by the fokonolona.  The pupil:teacher ratio in public primary
schools would still be 63:1, an excessively high figure especially con-
sidering the fact that enrollment expansion would have taken place mainly
in sparsely populated rural areas where class sizes may be expected to
be lower than average.
2.28      The Government would be well advised to concentrate its efforts
more on quality improvement by reducing the number of pupils per teacher
rather than on rapidly increasing the enrollment to the extent called for by
the Charter. The following figures are illustrative:
Possible 1979 Enrollment Targets
Alternative
Charter      I       II
Total Basic Education Enrollment (0OOs)          2,000     1,750  1,450
- as % of 6-11 age group                         114       100     82
Average Pupil:Teacher Ratio, Public Schools         63        55      45
2.29      In each series, education recurrent expenditure takes the same
share (29.4%) of total recurrent expenditure. Alternative I enrolls 100% of
the basic six-year age group, but still with a very high pupil:teacher ratio;
Alternative II with a more reasonable pupil:teacher ratio enrolls 82% of the
age group, still a considerable improvement over the 1974 figure of 68%.
It must also be remembered that the construction of physical facilities for
even the enrollment envisaged in Alternative II would represent a herculean
effort on the part of the Government and the fokonolona. Up to the end of
1975, it has been estimated that the fokonolona had built some 3,000 primary
schools, mainly small one-classroom schools. To achieve the objectives of
the Charter would involve more than doubling the number of class spaces in
public schools (from 14,000 to 28,500) involving the construction of some
14,500 class spaces.  This represents more than one class space for each
of the 10,000 fokonolona in the country, and the magnitude of the task is
evident. Alternatives I and II would not affect these figures concerning
class spaces - but, of course, the size of the class space could be re-
duced if class sizes are diminished.
2.30      In the longer term, the achievement of universal primary education
for the six-year age group 6 through 11 becomes more feasible. The finan-
cial implications of four possibilities for achieving it are sketched in



- 15-
Annex 2.3. The first three assume that primary education will continue
to absorb 50% of total education costs based on the government policy of
maintaining the proportion of students entering secondary schools, and
that National Servicemen will continue to be employed at one-third the
salary of regular teachers. The last assumes that secondary expansion would
be controlled so that by 1985 primary education could absorb 55% of total
education costs. These assumptions are:
A.   Average regular teacher's salary unchanged from
present levels; pupil:teacher ratio a reasonable
45:1.
B.   Teachers' salaries unchanged; pupil:teacher ratio
63:1 as in the 1979 "Charter" target.
C.   Existing regular teachers' salaries unchanged; new
teachers employed at two-thirds regular salary; pupil:
teacher ratio 45:1.
D.   As for C, but with basic education absorbing 55% of
the total education costs.
2.31      A appears financially not feasible; it would involve education
taking 37% of the government budget. B is educationally undesirable in
view of the excessive pupil:teacher ratio. C is to be recommended educa-
tionally but education would still consume 28.5% of the recurrent budget.
D is to be recommended both educationally and financially: the control
of secondary expansion that it would involve appears desirable in view of
the overproduction of secondary school leavers (para. 1.16). Total educa-
tion expenditure would amount to a reasonable 26% of government expenditures.
2.32      The Government intends to produce equipment for secondary schools
in the Teaching M4aterials Production Center, which would also assist the
Regional Education Centers in the production of prototype materials for
use in primary schools, thus initiating an attack on the problems mentioned
in para. 2.18. While the successful operation of this Center will be diffi-
cult especially in the early years, its establishment is to be preferred
to simply supplying equipment from abroad to schools on the grounds that
the equipment it produces should be more in line with the country's actual
needs, that costs would be lower and above all that the teachers would be
better able to use it following training in the Center itself. If primary
education standards are to be substantially improved, however, more needs
to be done to provide basic learning aids such as books. It is also important
that the primary school inspectorate be provided with the means to visit
schools; at present, there is a serious lack of transport facilities in the
school districts.
2.33      The Government's other plans for educational development seem less
well based. The envisaged 40% proportion of primary school students going on
to secondary school, for example, seems to be excessive in relation to the
likely absorptive capacity of the economy; while this is intended to include



- 16 -
private secondary school intake also, the proportion of students completing
their primary studies will increase rapidly as repeater and dropout rates
are reduced. The decision to create a technical lycee in each Region also
seems to have been taken without a careful assessment of the country's needs
for technically trained personnel and of the availability of well-qualified
teachers to teach in these schools. The great need at the secondary level
is to rationalize the system and to make the best possible use of such well-
qualified staff as are available. The same may be said of the university
level; while the creation of a university center at Diego Suarez concentra-
ting on marine engineering and other marine studies is perhaps justifiable,
the extension of ordinary university studies in Tulear is of more doubtful
validity. The existing center in Tulear lacks both equipment and teachers
and there is a considerable risk that numbers of unemployable graduates
are being turned out both there and in certain faculties (such as law) on
the main campus at Tananarive.
An Investment Strategy for Education
2.34      An investment strategy should guide the Government in its efforts
to improve the quality and relevance of basic education by assisting changes
in the content and delivery system, and should give priority to those elements
of government policy which would make it more responsive to regional and
community needs. It should lessen the existing financial constraint through
employment of National Servicemen as teachers, and should provide the teaching
aids and improved supervision necessary to maximize the benefits from their
deployment. Investments at the secondary and higher levels should be made
only with a view to improving general educational quality and - later - in
areas where a clear justification on manpower grounds can be shown to exist.
2.35      Within this framework and in close cooperation with the Government,
a second Bank Group project has been formulated which would assist the
Government in its plans to decentralize educational control and to improve
the quality of basic education. The next chapter describes this project
in detail. The project can, of course, only make a start in resolving
the problems: a future project could possibly take the process one stage
further by assisting actual primary school construction by the provision
of materials to the fokonolona, training fokonolona leaders, and the con-
tinuation of aid to improve the supply of teaching materials. A pre-
condition for direct assistance to the fokonolona is the development of
adequate administrative channels which in turn requires complete articula-
tion of the government decentralization plans in detail. Subsequently, if
manpower studies demonstrated the need, investments could be considered in
secondary and higher education, but at this time it appears that these sub-
systems need rationalization more than further capital inputs.



- 17-
20PA8AT1V0  EDUCATInN  INDICATOR8
I      NP24/      GN0ClP   :1 0 7A7711    17F PUBL IC  2          I        2:P9!. :63.081.                                           ,S~E 
a   I'.APYTI      FVTi:0201120P2101C  : E10U2AT12P,'   ILYTER..  g PR.  12C0MPLE0.  WSU-  93CM.IEAC1NIPRIDGRESS-8 SEC.  ISIU-  t 
I   115   I 3'  EIMI2.2 S    8,  I RECU RENIT    24213        zOROLLiTinN           tt)ENTSISALA8V 28,10N RATE  MIN80LLDENTSomIQIIERs
I        :22112FT7  (PURITC:n22VOT0D:EXP  ALLOCA7EI2I   RATF IRATIO  IRATE  000.03:8   IRELATION  iPRON4 PRI.sRATIO sPCR   SENROLL:
IPPP*  P88T21FS  EXOP             TO7   I        327:      tOO  OF   I NET   IPRI.SC1M,ITEACHS TO 06NP'  iTO 3EC.   u NET   STEACN..  RATIO1
228t0022) :(1051):  ONL1Y             09FU.  :002. SEC. 241.#&0ULTSOI  (22)   SCYCLECX)IFR    t CAPITA   i   (23                    I (33   tOP    I (1)          
(2   ~ (22    (32    *   (2)   a          22           (62        cv)        28()    s 2) I   (10)            ( ill      tf122    j(13)  3(243
An2VANrEn
112.2578211  25    7,0   0.5122   3~~~~             ~~.3  9  470   250   200  9     98         9          26         2.0         99         St        19       8.00
CANADA             72   2?.2   5,904(2so      7, 7    1 9.12     14    18    19       98        89         98         24         2.0         99         82        27       9.00
GERMANV F.0FP.72   6t.00  s, l222(            4. P     t, .2     ...   794*  2 6      99        91i        99         33        ...          99         90t       22      1.7,0021
JAPAN              72  tOOA.11   ,610n        ". 3    20.7       19    18    1 2      99        990        99C        25iC       2.0         99C        940       20C    ? . 0 00
NETHER1LANDS    7 2   13.42  '1 ,1390         A.5.   1.9, 22     32    229    2 9     99        95         95         P9         1.0         97         73        20      22t. 00
NEW  ZFALAND    73    2.9   1.689             r 0.    ...         9    24    29        9        99         99         26        ..99                    6?        29      24.00
NOOwAy             72    3.90  4.6690         7.2j    25.2       58    21    I3 I     919       99         98         20         2.9         99         76        14      11.00
SwEr21F            73    $.I  5.929           8.9    I 6. 11     36    141   fl       99        99         99         27       ...           90         as        to      30.00
L'.K.         0~~~~? 05.on 3.0O629       6.3    i2.7        26    19    22        98       99         ...        2-6        2.0          ...       63;       17      11.00
U.S.A.       ~~~~7? 220.S   6,2093       6.1 1   I.S .1     ..    73** 27         99       99         99         25U        2.0          ...       925       29u    29.00
pIIPIlPF
GROPEr             72    A.92'  2.07222       ?.      2.2        9OY   ?93   2'l      82A       950        ..         323                    704        s83       433     12.00
1001LAN1           721   3,90 2.2500         01.2     t3.90    113    423   2141    98          97         99A        39                     95A        75        19       7.00A
PO1R T 121AA       72    9.00  2,2203'...                         .. ..             .  ..       92Yy         .         . ...                 ...        6530      ...      7.60Y
58PATN             7)   311.70  2.790D        2 .2    IS. 2A    499    223   153    Ol4A        914        ...        ISA       ...          ...        29A1     30        6.00A
IL,28021           71   20.7       778        7.')     ..       420   120   1821    30          76         62F'       022        6.06        490        17       25        4.00
MENTN              71    P. 9      224        5.2    32.11       07    23    1o        12       1228       700t       508      29.08         438         '7s      398      0.40C3
RfnTSWANA          741    07       In300      9.,2    2  ,)      38    20   I25       25i       701        7 5         1         S  . 0      24         23K       28a       0.303
011R11N22          7I a    .I 11    op        2.S   I29.00    4270   910   129    0             201        30?        'is       19.0         2 4         2K       28I       1. 0
C A MF R'If1N     7I    6.2        202 ,      0.q    P11.11      380   293   173                7 4         . .       -toy    q.              .                   23C13    0.90Cy
C.A.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. ~~~~~~722    1.70    26901  4.1iN  290.'1)  06    29...    ..       64CY3    29           6921       .            8'Cy                28         .7
C22An              70    '2.0       89t       31.0    I  2.      7 8    22     0      25e       29180      it)        6'8Y    25. 0           a          238Y  30          0. 0 18y
CO2NGO( A0         7"A    1.       '209,      6.04    19.        110    32    22      SO       2 1322      63        63         6.2          48         3322     22         S. 40
F2G3P3             11   161        2PO        0.3       .        29p   36    2t4      110       7022       4 115     110       ...           64         191      28        12.0 0
F TH TOP I         73   26h.0       A1        3.2     7111.      42-   29    211        7       171        112       'IO        3. 0         63S         2       30        0.20
r,2A20             ? 6   75    11,    II22 I  0."    21.6        Pr,     9    221     ...    284X80        252C       06C       5). 0        181A       zOc      ?It       1.A0CV
S2IANA             72 I  '   o1,312 32v1'      ?77(.4b0   380   250   230             ...       061(C3    62          30213    ...           14         211       16C3     0.7483
292700 n~g C      7211O3  1   0.0Fr)    0907  6.01   P 2. 7     2783  1383  tly        94      0 2        57A1       06        a. ..                    2        25        l28
KENYA              73 1 22.'       1 273      6.1 "I   7.11      63    I I    I I     40        73         ...        40         8.0          4          2       23        I.0 O 3 8vy
L ES n N H         70c     '  I,2   29N       P2.2OP   23 . t    99    18a   20       40        05S       5,0         5 2        7.0W1       81        1I0       26        2.0
!ITOFOTA           7 2     2.90    I09 I      7i .7    2 3.9     29    t23    22       ...      59         ...        39         2.a         ...        2 0      2 0       1.1060
MADAOAGSCAO       7'   9R.6        209 1o .?    22.21            51    24    29       03        680        Ise        6 3      2S.0a         4 8         922     2 6       2.00
MhALA%l            74    '1 .80r   I  2A2r0   3.0    7~1 .        .           ....     20       062        60         S 0        7.0         40          422     22        l .26C 1
HALT               70    5. 32)     7922      4.61N   32.3       369   928     2p    Ioc        1811       2211       40  1191   12.08       076         4A      1722      0 . I64A0
M A II R   T AN IA  721    .2.70    22920 n   4        I.              9.0  2.12. . . .1        2922       ...        ?2         ...         ...         1       24
-A kJRT T [IS      7?    0. M2)    I 'o20     1.7    221.7n00   72   2I0       a      80        Fib        99        312          .           .         2        3          .7
NUtFlR221          7I  20. 9       120        S.-IC   I 26.0     441   97      9      267       5422       21         37         ..           1         IiI      21        2. 0
9221097*     ~~~71  721.2 ?I)   02)O     3.2N    .          4011  2911   20A    ...        3922CY    ...         39213      ...         ..          4       20213    0.3721o
RWANDIA            73    3.90       700       3.221    8.00  ... .... .    23                   92         . ..                  ...         ...         2       13        01.23C10
SENEGAt            72    '2.0or    28222      9.0N1  22.922R  3IRA   1121  15         20I      3822        ...       116        I..          .I.112              25        1 713C0
30E911  LFnINO   73    2. 7        220        3.')    ,3.4a      32    36    10       I1 T5    9111       09         32          t. S8                   3       23        0.538va
OnMALT&            70,    I.2      200        3.70   22..80    492   260   2921    907          1422      86         35        20.0          60          3       is        0.1
5220111            7P   17.00      139OD     22. S     3.2      11    29    28        29 1    Il8         705        JS         a1.0         25         22       20        1.23Y
5221170  11N20     70    I 2.5    q'2122      1 '.5           10.2  37   I3I    1's    90       70         90         98        3.0         84         19        22        2.00
TAN27ANIA          70i  13.22I1      O 22'21  .21    2 I7.22    36,    2.      2      61        44X        ...       119        ..            7          2       2IC      0.30
T2U1t13T1A         73    9 .2      222,219   6.0    23.11        37    43    i8    S55          72         RI        4112       6.01        32         jA        21       3.00
UGANDA1           7~,  20.A22    2000D      0.2 2N 7.6210   9(22   220   250    201             118010C    ...       36          ...         14A         43213   21        0.5883y
tIJPPR  VlILTA    7 P    5.7r0      70D0      1 '.0    21.9     63    1 0      6        S       1f         ..I .     115         o 2.22      20          2       23        o.OoBY
222100             75   23.4       221       9.2219  2'1 .      5112127C1  2921   I29           63         38        1411       6.0         41           8       24       0.9683
202481A            711    9.7      1182      0. 3    2/2.2       31    1 AR    I      1143      8s        80         47         9.0a         20        103       22        2 .05
CFNT3011L 220F0321  11112  722E CAPTPBEAN
C122S7A PICA       72     2.80    72112       5.?    22;. 7     97    23    22        80        A6213     60         29         3.0         08m        22C3    25        12.11C3
020222321111  030.72     '2.40    0;2920      2.0    29.30    92    222    22         51        R0         17        54         3.00)       63         13        24       7.00
EL. 341LV0017      70;    1.72)    30020      3.6    PI3.       62       0    22      04113    710213Y    ...        I921         ..         ...       0,6313   20213     A  43583
GO2ATE-AL2A        73    1.2       0220       2.9    26.22      00    23    11        117       64        26         9%         30          69           8       2          .9
114131        72~~I    9.90       0390  II.9       6.60    621   12        9      208      22         29?        4115      9.0         9 0          3       2 3       1. 00?
H2) ND )l R A      72    2.70)   3220         3.9    26.00    621    23 I     IA      92        810        28 a      37         6.0         7 5        240       1 4      3. 00
JA2A ZrA           7?     2. 90    99022     6.0   2 9. 7       133   223    70    86          20603       . . ..               ...          ..        3230      29       4.9
24E133211         7O  06 .0 n       909lf    2.6       9 ,3     911    29    2        76        7 3       32         116        1.          6           9        23       6.21
6221A9A22IA  711   2.12')   011229  ~~~2.01    14.2  62     II    23       57       60         22         37         2.0         93         17       24        7.00
T01620A122   T. 7   72    2.2)0 1.32020      I.2       8.9      93    27    I?        90        9922 x    87         is         4.2         29         119       25       2.S6A0
SIhIJTH 110001211
8041171           p21 201,120      76.22     11.3    272,1221    02    21)     37    79         a0y        . ..     C221                               lag.  8   15210    6.0089
CHILE1             71,   20.29    7209       4.6Y3      f 0.b'2    140Y 2903  11003   . ..     I I11(by    .. .      3793       .            ..        48003     ..
C11Ln70421        722  27.00D    "'I OD20    '.,)   22.9        30    18    20        7 3       67        20         36         93           22        17        24       4.00
ECUhDOPj           7?    6.70"   30022n      3.0    ;-I.721    /100  '2200  1000Y  69          72         ...        so         .           ..         2         211      4.97By
G)JY16NA           712     d           0.7  '22N .1 11  2.70    I27    30 2,   4      0311     920        39         3           .           9         60        21       10
PA9AG'~~~Iy   70    2.220)    3 722      2.t      03.2)     S0    25    22       81        92         26        322         2 .9        65         57       22       5. 0 0
PORn,             72   29.90,   6225         0.')    ?1 22. 1 n   0    22    i9       72        Pi        30if       3993       1. 0        721        3 0       2303   12.00
V!2NF ., E   i   73   12.2   2.630          91.6    19.9       300   280   390    7711        82         . ..       33         2.0         ...        33        ..      12.61210



- 18 -
COMPARA4TIVE EDIJCATION INOICATORS   (CONTO).                                                 PAIE 2
(OCTOBER8  17 
* T,P/ I I GNP   at TnTAL3%  OF PUBLIC*                 I                    $PR?. ,AV.PRI.   I                       s3EC   t 
*CAPITAI  DFvn1'EDIPURLIC  I EDUEA'ION    .L112R. s P-R!. ICOMPLE- iSTU.  ISCM.TEACHIPROGRE3S-1 SEC.  ISTU- I 
I       I  AT   s Tn ED11.s  FXP. s RECUBBENI    tACY             SENROLLAIION         MT2!NSISALARY 1%i1OM RATE sEHROLLsDEwTSt4IGMERs
IaHARwFTI  (PUKLYC:OEVOTED1IFR  ALLOCATED,   RATE i5*710  aBATF FORaPER   .RELATJnN *P'ROR PRI.sRATIO tPES   IENROLLs
riTp. IRpICESI FAp.    I  TO    I          TOm       :2(11 OF   i NET   fPRI.SCH,1TEACHi TOI GNP/ 310 SEC.   I MET   sTEACH- RATIOS
vP:t(A00TI  2 (UJSSII ONLY)       EOFU.  PPRI, SFC. MI.sADULTS)l 31)   fCYCLE(X)tFR    . CAPITA   I(1)                    I (1)   IOB    I (z)   I
I       2I       I          I         a                 I         I        I          I       I           I            I        I       II
I (I  .1   (2)s   3 1  (        a] I    (     S1   (0    (6)    2 (7)   2  (8)         3 9)Is  (20)    I (22)         1f12)   1(1!) ,C141 
ASIA Nn ncEANIA 
AFGHANISTAN    it:m   16.    q0 1     ...              iqp  25p   16       12       261       24        at        5.0         78         ex      22       2.00
BANr.LbnFSH      73  i4'A        pin      .2.    ?n2I       .........    23              561       . . ..  as.                    ...       211      28       ...
CHINA(TAIWAN) 73      S It.'    b60       31.?   ~',        28   '21    22      8S      46C       922       40       14.0        84        AIC      ?6      2A.O0C
TINDI A          7I I  RI.O0    I 222     2.oVY  *..        ...... .            ?29     791        ...       43A       *..        ...       28X      2OAY    4.OOAY
INnnNFSTA        71 22212404   I30 2o.8    t I o           61    73    24      6?       61        40        12         5.0        92        12       26       2.00
IRAN             73  3?.1       RIP       5.3    '2.6      500   288   1?R    r?        77        70*       17         9.08       80A       24       32       4.32EY
tRAIT            7?  1'4'1      0030      b'7    l.,.'soQR.......    26                 Alt?       ...      22         ...        ...                oCV2    6.28EV
JnRIAN.          7       .0,    ja 3210   7.1              9?  0   4:0  ?2      59       911       76        18        5.0        84        sox      22       4.00
KIORFA                1 32.0    '1321     7,9   ;.'        64    76      S      9?      97        90         91        1.0        71        46       37       6.00
LE5AONt.         '7? 2 79's   4111        3.S     A8.II    39   120   t0        68       86        65        29        2.0        61        2AU      25      23.00
MALAvIT7A        7n.  22.3    A,ll        6. It  I7l.3     44    321   22       hoc     9AF        90       112        4.00)      83F       44F      27F      S.00F
nHA N            7?7   P. 67r  RAtOn       .7N    3.8      96      -           70       241       99        11         7.0        ...       0.4X      9        .
000153*0         79  66.701   I?r 11      . 6    26.?     4,   79    1 A       22      471       -so        ilk       2.0        ...       17 1     18 a     6.00
P00110 0.G.      70    7.6      I12I P.   0.6    26.2      18    26    24       S?      -57?      YIP        it        21.0       90        120?    24        0. 90?
PH7L2PP7MFS    722  '2.0 71101.n  Ai      7.0    22.9       ?'3   15 2,  2      S?     104X        ...       14        25.0       ...       46X      ...    22 .00
SIN2IAP2100      7?   2.?n O    An 3.1     .2 t 2I6.?2    421   12   I2         75A     960       72A        31         .         99*       570      24       8.25y
THAILANIt        ?I 73  Q.4    2770       l2. NF ?0,7F    65,    9    Is.   S?          871       91C        12        1. 0 Ui    91C       21 1     24       2. 00
0,14023y         7?  37. qfl    60n12      ..323 ODA 10R...        .. .....    IOSICY   I*..                 1400      ...        ...       22XY    270Y    5.3tSY
YFMEN            7 i   6.3      I31'l     11.0r    . 12.   40 7P18J  21P    1 0          11        1 6       16        0.0        TS          28     29       0.0s80
YFEMFN P*.n..  7?    1.00    f2222        2.24   12.6      79    I?      -      I 3      701       11        29       20.0        99         121     20       0.OSAY
NIIMRFR OF Cni'NTRITF!                    71     71       69    65    67      60       77        01        76           50o      54        77       71        73
0*07N!                                 10.s-  21.8-   (20- (0-   (0-    (.           (20-       (27-      '29..      f2.8-    (7-        3,4-    (-        (.01-
12.210 1   2.3)   96 ) 021  400         98)      1841)    99 1      66 2        25.0)    99)        75.0)   03)       21.01
GI'AOTILFS?IIPPFP                      I4'.7   72.3      97    36    20      68       92        76        As           7        76        26       26      4.79
"FrITAN:                   '1.)     P2      90)   2?    is    070        72        '.6        la          4        61        26       23       2.00
lO'wFP :                   1.       2.21)    117 2, 7    It      20      46        29         11                   25         a       t9       0.53
SYWAOLS. ... nT*T'M IINAVAILABLF                 4.2970 nR BEFORF              MsCURRENT PRICES                             SOURCES
MA NAITTIJOF NIL 00 NEITLIGIPLE 031972                            NeABOP----
7  12F9TII1OARLF                    C-107?                         WONCLUDING FORFIGN A13                       COLUMNSOII  AND 2 WORLD BANK
*INFrLUSES PART.TIMF STlIIENTS 0319171                            G11CFNTRAL GOVT. ONLY                                             ATLAS
rnIORINFO WITH PRIOMARY           F219742                        RAMINlSTRY OP FDUCATIIiN (MOE) ONLY                    3 in ill 18P1 813810N8
F21975                        SAOEn *22D STATE G00?.  OnLY                                      AND/OR UNESCO
G32976                        ToEXCLUDING CENTRAL GVT.                                         STATISTICAL
U6PIIBLIC ONLY                                                   YABD
VAINCLUDING PRIVATE EXPENDITURE
XAINCLUDING OVFRAGED, STUDENIS
YOUNESCO SOURCES
CIlmr*ARAIVF Fni2rATI2JN 0*' Apr OSEFUL IN THlE EVALUATION OF VARIOUS EDUCATION SYSTEMS AND1 ANALYSIS nF RELATIVE STAGES OF EDUCATIONAL
DEVELnP.*FNT RFTWFFO VARTn11S CnOiJTRiES. HI2WEVER,ON THE BASTS nr TH42 PRFSENT DATA*.CBOSS-NATlONAL COmPARISON SHOULD RE APPROACHED WITH
GREAT C*"-TIlq. nAT7* PRE3F-1TFn 00 THE ASOVE TARLE HIVE SEEN COILLECTED LARGELY Ply THE BANK MISSIaNS FROm GOVERN.4ENT SOURCES, THE
RERAINDTR ARE -ITAFF FSTT22ATFS 00 MIATA FRnM UNFSCO. EFFORTS N4AVE BEEN MADE TO STANnARDIZE DEFINITIONS AND WITHIN LIMITS, TO CHEEK THE
ACCIIN*CV 'IF TOF rr*TA. NFl1EQTHFLES.S,SIJECH n*7* ARE STILL IMPERFECT IN SFVFRAL. RESPFCTS AND THE RANK IS WORKINS TO IMPROVE THMff
PROE,PF9!;TVFLy (2" T1E IICCAS12ON OF TTI nPER*TIONAL WORK, IN TOE USE OF THESE DATA, THE FOLLnWTNG QUALIFICATIONS SWOULD RE BORNE IN
(1)FnCATnW   ASnFTETNED IN THE TA81 E INCLtIIES ALL E2)UCATION A210 TRAINING,  Fn480t  AND NONPFORHAL,
1?~R22o,'TU27ATI'23 REFFRS TO FntUCATION AT THE FIRST LFvEL AND 'SECONDAPRV   EDUCATION REFERS TO ALL EDUCATION AT THE SECONDARtY
LEVEL RFt.AVOLFSS OF TYPF IF.?. GENERAL, TECHNICAL, AGRICULTURAL) 
(37TLITERArY3 RATF1"IC(2L.b) ARE nFTEN OBRTAINED FROM COUNTRY CEN4SUSES. IN MANYCOUNTRIES THEY ARE ONLY APPROXIMATIONS AND IT 78
TOIIA~'TFI  TO1AT ANY 1'NIFOOPMn 0E 2T0    F,LITERATF  HASBE n ELLO W1EDCONSISTENTL_Y,
P3'IR Llr FOPFNOITr2F 1  EDUrATIJN)(COLS. ,1  AND   ) REFER  TO ALL CAPITAL AND RECiJRRETEPNIUSDEODTODCAON8
PI'tLITr Ak0 311*AST-P'JBL IT &GENC IFS:
(S).ENOOLIA.FIT RAITOs.ICnLS 7. 27 AND 241 REFER TO SCHOOLi YEAR AND MEALN THE PFRCENTAGE OF ELIGIBLE CHILDREN ENROLLED FULL-TINEF
TN THE APPRPRIPATE SCHOOL. PUBLIC ANn PRIVATE By LEVEI . THEY ARE OFTEN SUJBJECT TO A WIDE MARGIN OF ERROR IN THE DEVELOPINg
COIIOTRYFT nW1N3 Tn VARIATION IN THE ACCURACy OF BASIC nATACT.E. AGE-SPECIFIC PO1PULATION AND ENROLLMENTS). ENROLLMENT FIGURES
FRF0UFI.TLY ARE .k23HE0 THAN THE NumBER OF STIITENTS ACTIIALLY IN  SCHOOL. OVERAGFD STUDENTS WHOSE INCLUSION IS INDICATED   BY
FonTNnTFT  AlI9- CAN IIFL-AtE THE RATIOS.



MADAGASCAER
ORGANIZATION OF THE MINISTRY OF EDUCATION, 1974
LEVEL
MINISTER                                                                                                                        MINISTER
SECRETARY-        l
SECRETARY-GENERAL                                                                                                              GENERAL
DIRECTORS                              E                                                         MI|ISTRATIE MAIS
secr~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N  FIAC                                                                EDUATO               PROFESIONA
SERETARY-                                                                                                            POICA
PRIMARY SCHOOL                                                       LEISATO |NESTOA GDUENER                                                                      GENERAL
INSPECTORSN .
COMMISSION
CHIEFS                                                                                                          IRAININGi          E-AATON                              RAIIN
3 Ude Th p on oldseeno RM ONO        ROS   ONrul                                          SORb VISUALw p
AE  M R u4rad d to the leol                                                                                                    -ol EOd ..k-5O4Ri
SO..,e  MIIS.-y ol Ed.Fdtr-



MADAGASCAR
EXISTING AND PROPOSED REVISED STRUCTURES OF THE EDUCATION SYSTEM
EXAMINATIONS    GRADE                       EXISTING STRUCTURE                              PROPOSED REVISED STRUCTURE
THIRD
UNIVERSITY                                                                                 CYCLE
DEGREES        17      w       4                                                 I- u   (2 YEARS)                      L
1b   I  2wL. *                                                                                 uw
16         ~~~~~3 ~>    SECOND                                                                    . _
OW u    CYCLE-                   < IL
15  2                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(2 YEARS)  o 
-D00
14.        ~~~~~1 FIRST                                                                        (   
BACCALAUREATS                                           3CYCLE-                                                          uu z uu
13          TERMI-'                                   4WZU)
BREVETS"m   1Z         S        NAL                                                    (2 YEARS)                  a. - O u
12              1                                     33                                   >       c 
Ir  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~                                       aW    a
LOWER                        2 
CSEEpT,NFODcWAAR11            2                        3           2                      2         z < 9      GGI|O
SECONDARY                 z       6n z                                Cu
CERTIFICATE       10       0       3           412                      1                                U )_ O 8u
2      o   CP        2                                                     2     .3
PRIMARY         7                   I      19 6a   17                                      2
-i ~ ~~~ ~  ~~~~~~~                  Worl Bak-582R
LEAVING         6           C2                                      F- It  l
6     CM     2   -jOa.  <-J U)__                              _
CERTIFICATE        5CM 1                     i 0 0                                             5
cc        ~00) Jo  I-
4           CE 2               C                                l          4
0                                 U/)
0  ~~~~~~~~(>
3           CEl10L 
2      L CP 2
2
1             C1                                                              1
GENERAL              TECHNICAL EDUCATION AND               GENERAL          VOCATIONAL AND
EDUCATION           VOCATIONAL TRAINING                   EDUCATION         PROFESSIONAL TRAINING
Source: Second Plan, 1973-77, Tananarive 1973
1/ The structure of fourth level education is not yet decided (1976).
World Bank-i15682(R)



MADAGASCAR
EDUCATION PYRAMID 1974
GRADE(S)           TOTAL ENROLLMENTS.                                                                                                         ENROLLMENT AS
HIGHER                 PRIMARY 1,038,000 (46% GIRLS; 20% PRIVATE)                                                                            % OF AGE GROUP
LOWER SECONDARY 100,000 (42% GIRLS: 49% PRIVATE)
14-19               UPPER SECONDARY 23,000 (40% GIRLS; 37% PRIVATE)               9000 (TOTAL ENROLLMENT)                                         1.0%
-             HIGHER - FULL TIME STUDENT EQUIVALENT c. 9000
UPPER SECONDARY
AND TECHNICAL
13 _                                                                   3500   2000
1 2                                                                    4500   3200                                                              4.2%
11 _                                                                  5800   3900
LOWER SECONDARY,
TECHNICAL & VOCATIONAL                        BOYS                                                                GIRLS
10 _10.500                                                                     7,900                                                        1
9                                                                  10,600      7,900                                                           12%
8                                                                15,800 _      |1,800
7                                                               20,000     5     15,800
PRIMARY
6 t41,00                                                                               34,4. 000
5,L                                                      43,00                         36,000
I- ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-i68%
41 _70,000                                                                                     59,000
3                                           85,000 m                                              72,000
2                                   111,000o 6                                                          195,000
I     212,000                                                                                                                      180,000
200           150            100             50             0              50             100            150            200
(IN THOUSANDS)
SOURCE: MINISTRY OF NATIONAL EDUCATION                                                                                                     World Bank-15683



MADAGASCAR
GROWTH IN EDUCATIONAL ENROLLMENTS. 1966-1974
Number of         Pupil/
Teachers      Teacher Ratio
1966       1967        1968        1969       1970        1971         1972          1973          1974            (1974)          (1974)
Primary Education
Public                        468,000    488,000    566,000    606,000    645,000    709,000           744,000       766,000       825,000          11,200            74
Private                        184,000    195,000    203,000    232,000    238,000    229,000           261,000      265,000        213,000          5,170            41
Total                     653,000    683,000    769,000    837,000    883,000    938,000    1,004,000    1,031,000    1,038,000                 16,400            63
General Secondary Education
Public                          18,300     23,000      26,400      24,700      27,800      30,100        35,000        51,300        57,400          2,100             27
Private                         33,800     36,700      40,600      61,100      57,500      71,300        70,400        60,800        57,000          1,760             32
Total                      52,200      59,600      67,000      85,800     85,300    101,400        105,300       112,100        114,500          3,860            30
Technical Secondary Education
Total                       4,400       5,800       5,500       6,000       6,800    c.7,000         5,500(?)      n.a.         c.8,000          n.a.             n.a.
Higher Education
Total                        2,900      3,100       3,300       3,400       3,900       5,300         5,600      c.7,000        c.9,000          c.200          c.45
Sources:  Inventaire des Statistiques Sociales 1966-1972 and Annuaire Statistique 1974 and government request document 1975.  There are considerable
discrepancies in the figures.



- 23 -
ANNEX 2.2
MADAGASCAR
Recurrent Expenditures on Education
1972-1975
(in millions FMG)
(est.)
1972        1973         1974         1975
I.  GDP (current prices)                  272,000      288,000     351,000       389,000
II. TOTAL GOVERNMENT RECURRENT
EXPENDITURE                          42,400      40,500       42,900       47,000
III.  TOTAL MINISTRY OF EDUCATION             8,7001       9,822      10,831       11,000
EXPENDITURE                                        9
- as % of I                            3.2%       3.4%         3.1%        2.8%
- as % of II                            21%      24%           25%         23%
A. HIGHER EDUCATION AND ADMINI-
STRATION                              1,857       2,161        2,677        2,670
of which:
i)  Higher Education                    419         590          851        1,055
ii) Academic Services
(including scholarships)         1,259          701          946         892
iii)  Other                               179         870          880          723
- as % of III                          45%          22%          25%          24%
B.  GENERAL SECONDARY EDUCATION             1,313        1,775       1,813        1,930
- as % of III                           32%         18%          17%          18%
- % of B devoted to salaries            87%         90%          90%          90%
C. TECHNICAL AND VOCATIONAL EDUCATION         449          725          772         845
- as % of III                           11%          7%           7%           8%
- % of C devoted to salaries            78%         82%          83%          85%
D.  PRIMARY EDUCATION                         478        5,161       5,569        5,550
- as % of III                           12%         53%          51%          50%
- % of D devoted to salaries            69%         95%          96%          96%
/   This total includes 4.6 billion FMG financed bv the Provincial Budgets for
primary education. These budgets were abolished on January 1, 1973.
Source:   Ministry of National Education.  -



MADAGASCAR
Enrollment and Budgetary Implications of the Expanded Basic Education System
Envisaged in the Charter
Four Projections for 1985
1974        1975         1976          1977         1978         1979               A             B             C            D
(actual)
POPULATION
A.  Aged 6-11 inclusive (0OOs)                       1,517        1,560         1,610        1,660        1,710         1,760             2,100        2,100         2,100         2,100
B.  Aged 6-14 inclusive (OOOs)                       1,947        2,005        2,065         2,127        2,190         2,257             2,700        2,700         2,700         2,700
TEACHERS   - Private                                 5,170        5,100        5,000         5,000        5,000         5,000             5,000        5,000         5,000         5,000
- Public                                11,181       11,200       13,400        18,400       23,400       28,400            42,200        30,200       42,200        42,200
- of which National Servicemen                      795          800        3,000        8,000        13,000       18,000            24,700        18,000       24,700        24,700
ENROLLMENT - Private (OOOs)                            213          210           200          200          200           200               200           200          200           203
- Public  (OOs)                           825          840          965         1,270        1,560         1,800             1,900        1,900         1,900        1,900
Total                                  1,038        1,050        1,165         1,470        1,760         2,000             2,100        2,100         2,100        2,100
ENROLLMENT RATIOS  (A)                                  68           67            72           89           103          114               100           100          100           100
(B)                                53           52            56           69            80           89               (78)          (78)          (78)         (78)
PUPIL TEACHER RATIO - Private                           41           41            40           40           40            40                40            40           40            40
- Public                          74           75            72           69            66           63                45            63           45            45
TOTAL ANNUAL TEACHERS' SALARIES1-J                    5.35         4.85          5.45         6.25         7.04          7.84              12.3           8.7          9.5           9.5
- as X of basic education costs                      96           96           96            94           92            90                90            90           90            90
COSTS OF BASIC EDUCATION -                            5.57         5.05          5.68         6.65         7.65          8.71              13.7           9.7         lO.,6         10.6
- as % of total recurrent educ. costs                51           50           50            50           50            50                50            50           50            55
TOTAL RECURRENT EDUCATION BUDGETSL/
(incl. possible fokonolona contribution)              10.8         10,1        11.36         13.30        15.30          17.42             27.4          19.3         21.1          19.3
- as % of government recurrent budget                25         23.5         22.2          25.3         28.3          29.4              37            26.1         28.5            26
- as % of GDP                                      3.2           3.0          3.3           3.7          4.2           4.3               5.3           3.7          4.1           3.7
>c
1/ In FMG billion (1974 constant prices)
Source: Bank staff estimates based on the primary enrollment targets of the Charter, 1975.



- 25 -
III. THE PROJECT
Project Strategy and Objectives
3.01      The financial constraint prevents a direct approach towards solving
Madagascar's educational prolems, i.e., expansion of teacher training to
reduce the pupil:teacher ratio at the primary level. Bank Group assistance
to construction of primary schools was not considered desirable by the Govern-
ment at this stage because this would be contrary to the policy objectives
of promoting self-reliance of the fokonolona. Therefore, the project strategy
is to help the Government minimize induced recurrent expenditures and at the
same time maximize impact on basic education through:
(a) assistance to the programs to change the structure
and content of basic education;
(b) introduction of improved learning methods and
techniques;
(c) use of National Service teachers to reduce average
class sizes to a more reasonable level without unduly
increasing recurrent costs;
(d) in-service training of existing teachers;
(e) support to the inspectorate to help it keep teachers
abreast of new developments in content, learning
methods and techniques; and
(f) decentralization of educational administration to
enable it to become more responsive to local needs.
3.02      The main thrust of the project would be on institution building
for the improvement of primary education, but secondary education would also
be assisted. The project would (i) provide the administrative facilities
required for the decentralization of education, training facilities for
about 20% of the National Servicemen to be trained as teachers, and vehicles
to enable primary school inspectors to visit the schools more regularly; (ii)
establish a center for the production of teaching materials; and (iii) help
the development of primary school textbooks.
Specifically, the project would include:
(a) buildings, furniture and equipment for the following
institutions:
i) Five Regional Education Centers (Centres Academigues
Provinciaux - CAPs) together with vehicles for the
school inspectorate;



- 26 -
ii)   One National Teaching Materials Production Center
(Centre National pour la Production de Materiels
Didactiques - CNaPMaD);
(b) textbook development;
(c) technical assistance for i) CNaPMaD in its initial
operating stages; (ii) the statistical section of
the Ministry of Education; and (iii) project evalua-
tion; and
(d) project administration and pre-investment studies.
Project Items
3.03      Regional Education Centers (CAPs).  Decentralization of ministerial
functions is a main aim of government policy (paras. 2.20-2.23), and the five
CAPs to be built under the project would provide teaching and administrative
accommodation for the Ministry of Education in each regional capital outside
Tananarive - i.e., in Diego-Suarez, Fianarantsoa, Majunga, Tamatave and
Tulear - along the lines of e.g., the Awraja Development Centres being assisted
as a part of the fourth education project in Ethiopia (Credit 553-ET). The
Ministry is presently represented in each of these towns by a Regional Educa-
tion Service (SPE). The SPEs have sections dealing, inter alia, with accounts,
personnel, coordination, bursaries, educational counselling, enforcement of
education regulations, and audio-visual education. They are inadequately
housed in very cramped conditions in old buildings. They have little autonomy
and their work consists almost exclusively in the administration of directives
coming from Tananarive.
3.04      Under the new government proposals, the provincial authorities would
be given much more responsibility for the direction of educational policy, and
at all levels. They will be headed for in the future by an officer of the
rank of Director (para 2.01; Chart 2.1). Control of the primary and secondary
levels would be transferred to the provinces as soon as possible, and the
intention is that the CAP would ultimately assume responsibility even for
other levels and types of education in the province. These responsibilities
would, of course, include those formerly undertaken by the SPE. In addition
to helping to resolve the problems mentioned in para. 2.15, the main advantages
which are expected from this decentralization include:
(a) a more rapid and relevant response to regional needs; and
(b) better coordination at the local level with other services
such as health and agriculture.
A government decree establishing the CAPs was enacted during September 1976,
however, the definition of the functions and responsibilities of the CAP by a
ministrial decree would be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed credit.



- 27 -
3.05      As has already been mentioned (para. 2.25), decentralization of
educational control is desirable in a country of the size and diversity
of Madagascar. The Government has recently completed a broad outline of
its plans for educational decentralization and has agreed that within one year
of signing the Credit Agreement it will provide detailed implementation plans
to the Association, including information on the autonomy of its provincial
services and on future teacher appointments.
3.06      In addition to their administrative functions and to the organiza-
tion of in-service teacher training, the CAPs would train lower secondary
holders as teachers in a three-month specialized course; some 60% of
the CAP facilities would be used for teacher training. These teachers would
then teach in primary schools for at least two years in fulfillment of their
National Service obligations; they would be paid approximately one-third the
pay of a regular teacher and thus help ease the financial constraint on
educational expansion/improvement (paras. 2.16-2.18). The Government is
hoping to train 3,000 National Servicemen as teachers at a time, i.e., 9,000
in one year in three batches, using existing teacher training colleges and
school facilities. The capacity of the teacher training colleges is far from
sufficient for this task: it is estimated at less than 1,200 and would cater
for no more than 40% of the need. The facilities in the schools are generally
inadequate and their use may well encounter the opposition of parents whose
children are excluded. For these reasons, the CAPs would each provide accom-
modation for the training of 120 National Servicemen (both men and women) at a
time. This training function of the CAPs would ensure that they remained in
close contact with the realities in the schools. In addition to training in
teaching techniques relevant to the new primary curriculum, the course would
include community development work in a rural environment. The CAPs would
also be used for the in-service training of existing teachers in the new
curricula during vacations. Included in these training facilities would be
a general purpose workshop where the teachers in training would be given in-
struction in the making of simple primary school teaching aids using materials
which are localy available; in this work the CAPs would maintain close liaison
with the CNaPMaD in Tananarive (para 2.32).
3.07      Educational counsellors/inspectors (conseillers pedagogigues)
would be recruited into the CAPs as teacher-trainers. At seminars held
in Tananarive in late 1975 and early 1976, over 250 conseillers were
given instruction on the aims of the primary school reform and the
Government intends to recruit as teachers in the CAPs those who show the
most aptitude in practical work, teaching of, and in, the local language,
and in the general aims of the education reform. The conseillers have
received a very literary training and it is important that a careful
selection be made if the aims of the primary school reform are to be
realized. They would also have an important role in deciding which of
the National Servicemen should be offered permanent employment as teachers.



- 28 -
3.08      The CAPs would also assist in the development of regionally oriented
curricula, but would have a limited role in this field. Originally it was
thought that regional curricula would be necessary as an element of the reform
on account of the diversity of Madagascar; however, further work has indicated
that most of the provinces have the considerable varieties of climate, of
fauna and flora, etc. as the whole country and although some elective subjects
would be developed in the CAPs, entirely separate regional curricula are not
desirable. Most of the work on curricula will therefore continue to be done
centrally; the role of the CAPs will be to provide feedback information from
the Regions and, where appropriate, to elaborate a regional treatment of the
central curriculum.
3.09      The primary school inspectorate in Madagascar cannot provide neces-
sary services to the schools because of inadequate means of transportation.
An improvement in these services will be essential once National Servicemen
begin to be employed on a large scale, for the National Servicemen will have
had a minimal three-month training. The project would therefore provide one
vehicle for each sub-prefecture in the country, or 95 vehicles in all together
with operational spare parts. The sub-prefectures are staffed by educational
counsellors/inspectors (conseillers pedagogigues) who report to school district
(CISCO) staff. The school districts are under the direction of the SPEs; they
also are headed by an Inspector of Primary Education, assisted by a conseiller
pedagogique, and usually have three other officers responsible for audio-visual
education, physical education, and out-of-school activities. The vehicles
would also be used for the supply of books and possibly other simple teaching
aids to schools. Maintenance of vehicles in Madagascar can be a problem, but
there are various manufacturers well represented in the country and providing
a good aftersales service.
3.10      Even with the additional vehicles, it is unlikely that the staff
would be able to visit every school sufficiently frequently. However, the
Madagascar educational organization includes groupings of teachers from
fokonolona schools who are organized into FFAVs 1/ - action committees for
teaching and rural development. The provision of an additional vehicle would
enable the sub-prefecture staff to meet with the FFAVs on a regular basis.
3.11      National Teaching Materials Production Center (CNaPMaD).  Apart
from a few schools in the principal towns, secondary schools in Madagascar
have virtually no scientific equipment or teaching aids and consequently
students studying subjects with a practical bias including chemistry and
the physical and biological sciences gain no experience in laboratory work
which is an essential component of such courses. As a result, the existing
syllabi for these subjects, although essentially sound in concept, are being
inadequately taught.
1/   FFAV - Fanentanana ny Fahaiza - Mampianatra amin'ny Ambaratonga
Voalohany/Comite d'action et d'animation pedagogique.



- 29 -
3.12      Based on late 1975 c.i.f. prices for imported science equipment,
the estimated cost to provide Madagascar' s 126 public secondary schools
with basic science equipment would be about US$5.0 million equivalent and
replacements would be required at an annual cost of US$500,000 equivalent.
Similar sums would be needed to establish and maintain an adequate level
of science equipment in private secondary schools.
3.13      The Madagascar c.i.f. price of imported school science equipment
is generally high and for some items of equipment excessively so because
of high profit margins and transport costs. Some of the equipment is of
a relatively simple nature and could be manufactured locally in the country.
Simple workshops, utilizing machine tools and standard workshop processes,
would be able to completely fabricate about one-third of the required equip-
ment; another one-third could be produced by a combination of local fabrica-
tion and imported "difficult-to-make" parts; the remaining equipment, because
of its relative complexity, would have to be imported ready for use.
3.14      Under efficient management, completely locally fabricated equipment
of satisfactory standard could be produced at a cost of about 35% of imported
equipment, and for those items produced by a combination of local fabrication
and imported parts, the costs would be of the order of 50%-60% of imported
equipment. These estimates take account of materials used in manufacture,
managerial and labor costs, depreciation of workshop buildings, plant and
equipment and an allowance for capital investment in buildings, plant and
equipment.
3.15      The proposed CNaPMaD would be of minimum size consistent with the
provision of an adequate machine shop, electrical shop and fitting facilities
to enable a wide range of science equipment to be manufactured. It has been
developed taking into account experience with similar production facilities
assisted under Bank Group education projects, e.g., the third education proj-
ect in Ethiopia (Credit 417-ET) and the second education project in the Yemen
Arab Republic (Credit 611-YAR). It is not intended initially to build the
Center of such a size that it would be adequate to supply all Madagascar's
needs for science equipment in the foreseeable future. It would be flexibly
designed so that after experience is gained it may be expanded to meet all
the needs. However, from its inception, the Center would be commercially
viable in that the value of the equipment produced in relation to its c.i.f.
imported cost and production cost would show a balance in favor of local pro-
duction.
3.16      In addition to facilities for the production of science equipment,
stores would be included to receive imported science equipment so that it
could be conveniently sorted and dispatched to schools. Also included would
be accommodation for rehousing the Curriculum Research and Development Bureau.
This Bureau presently occupies an old army building a considerable distance
from any other Ministry of Education building; the facilities are unsuitable
for effective curriculum development work and it is difficult to maintain
liaison between the Curriculum Bureau, the schools and the Ministry.



- 30 -
3.17      Secondary school science teachers are trained at the Complexe
Scolaire which was financed under the first education project assisted
by the Bank Group in Madagascar. In 1975, 200 science teachers were under
training in 2-year courses. The CNaPMaD would be built near the Complexe
Scolaire and it is planned that each trainee teacher would, as part of the
course, attend the Center for a total of about 120 hours to learn the use of
the apparatus being manufactured and to acquire skills in making simple
equipment from readily available materials suitable for use in the schools.
Facilities at the Center to support the instruction of science teachers would
include a workshop for bench fitting in wood and metals and a classroom.
3.18      The Center would design primary school equipment and make proto-
types with instruction sheets for distribution to the five CAPs included
in the proposed project and where intensive courses for training National
Servicemen as primary school teachers are to be held (para 3.06). The Center
would regularly run courses for primary teacher trainers to familiarize them
with the prototypes and methods of production and school use.
3.19      The Government's original intention was that the schools would buy
equipment from the Center and the Center would use the proceeds to purchase
materials, pay the salaries of the Center's staff and cover all other expenses.
However, the 1975 budget allocation for equipment for all primary and secon-
dary schools was only FMG 20 million (US$90,000). This amount is substan-
tially less than in previous years, but even in those years the allocations
were quite inadequate to enable school managements to obtain even modest
supplies of equipment and would certainly be inadequate to buy from the Center
the volume of equipment planned to be manufactured. This problem was dis-
cussed with the Government and it was agreed that in order to ensure a supply
of materials for manufacturing purposes at the Center, a sum of $200,000
equivalent would be included in the proposed project to cover the first four
years of full operation. This material would be stored in the Center, which
would also be provided with vehicles to deliver finished equipment to the
schools.
3.20      The equipment manufactured at the Center would be issued free to
schools (including suitable private schools) on an appropriately planned quota
basis. The Government has given an assurance that the CNaPMaD will be adequately
staffed and provided with adequate funds for the purchase of materials and
general operations.
3.21      The CNaPMaD would operate under the direction of the Ministry of
Education whose staff lack experience in the organization and operation of
a manufacturing center specializing in light engineering equipment fabrica-
tion. Although the Ministry already has a very small center for limited
manufacture of school equipment, its scope and functions are on too re-
stricted a scale to enable it to be used as a basis upon which to build



- 31 -
the proposed Center. Consequently, an essential requirement for the success-
ful design, operation and general viability of the Center would be 18 man-
years of technical assistance, which would involve a 6-man team experienced
in the use of scientific equipment in schools, able to design and produce
working drawings suitable for batch production, able to cooperate with archi-
tects in the layout of the works, and to organize the skilled labor to be
employed in the workshops. To enable early recruitment of technical assist-
ance for this item, the Credit would provide US$100,000 equivalent of retro-
active reimbursement for approved expenditure incurred after March 1, 1976,
but prior to Credit signing. A condition of effectiveness of the proposed
Credit would be the appointment of two key members of the team; the Govern-
ment has agreed to employ the team's other four members on completion of the
CNaPMaD facilities. It may not be necessary to seek all of these experts
from abroad as some of Madagascar's light engineering industries already
employ suitably experienced persons who could fill the six technical assis-
tance posts indicated above.
3.22      The Industrial Technical Lycee in Madagascar runs efficient courses
for engineering craftsmen in a range of trades appropriate to operations
at the Center. Student output from the 4-year course is 200 per year of
which 60 pursue further education and 140 are available for employment.
Consequently, no general difficulty is anticipated in recruiting skilled
workers for the Center. An exception would be the recruitment of two glass-
blowers for which no training facilities exist in Madagascar. Therefore, four
man-years of fellowships, to support the overseas training of two persons, are
included in the proposed project.
3.23      Textbook Development.  With regard to teaching aids, primary schools
in Madagascar are much worse off than secondary schools: even books, pencils
and paper are lacking (para 2.18). As a result, standards are very low.
There will be a particularly urgent need for paper and books in Malagasy
primary schools over the next few years for two main reasons: (i) the antici-
pated use on a large scale of National Servicemen as teachers after only
three months training and (ii) the new five-year primary curriculum stressing
instruction adapted to local conditions and given in the local language.
Books imported from abroad cannot adequately meet the needs because: (a) the
curriculum is in a state of change and experimentation and flexibility in the
content of books or in many cases teaching guides is essential; (b) as a re-
sult, continuing inputs from local staff are necessary; and (c) imported
books are expensive.
3.24      Adequate facilities and equipment for printing educational books
already exist in Tananarive, in a building annexed to the National Press. The
existing equipment has been supplied by the Friedrich Ebert Foundation, a
German institution, which is also supplying a supervisory technician. A new



- 32 -
primary school curriculum has been developed by the Curriculum Research and
Development Bureau of the Ministry of Education, wlhich would be housed in the
CNaPMaD under the proposed project (para. 3.16). Work is in hand in develop-
ing this curriculum into individual class syllabi with student and teachers'
guides. When this work is finished, the student and teachers' guides will need
to be printed and, after an experimental period, these guides would be given a
more permanent textbook form.
3.25      The project would supply part of the paper needed for this work:
over the period of the project, some 4 million student guides and textbooks
would be produced, or one textbook and one student guide in each main subject
area (Malagasy, mathematics, environmental studies, and practical work) for
the present enrollment of one million. The project would supply about 1,500
tons of paper for this purpose. Writing of the texts would be done by special-
ist teams working together with the Curriculum Bureau and printing by the
National Press. The books and guides would be distributed by the CNaPMaD to
the school districts and from there to the sub-prefectures, from which they
would be delivered to the schools by the conseillers pedagogigues. The
conseillers have already been instructed in the aims of the new primary
curriculum in a seminar held in Tananarive; further seminars are being held.
The conseillers will instruct the teachers, particularly the National Service-
men, in teaching the new curriculum and in the use of the textbooks after
delivering the books and during regular visits to the schools.
3.26      Educational Statistics and Planning.  Educational planning in
Madagascar suffers from an inadequate statistical base. A thorough rational-
ization of the system is needed within the context of government decentrali-
zation plans, with clear decisions being made on what statistics are needed
and clear directives being issued on the methods and timing of their compila-
tion. At the same time, an inventory of existing school buildings including
details of their facilities and location needs to be made, and a system
instituted for the processing of the data. The project would provide four
man-years of expert services to establish the system and train Malagasy staff
in its use. Two experts are envisaged, one to deal with the educational
elements of the task, and the other with those relating to physical facilities.
3.27      Educational Evaluation.  The Government strategy and the proposed
project include innovative and unusual features in the area of education
administration and management, as well as in the fields of curricula and
teaching materials. These features need to be carefully evaluated during
the project implementation period in order to obtain preliminary assessments
of the reforms being introduced and make such adjustments in their speci-
fications as appear appropriate. There is also need for evaluating the proj-
ect, its results, and the lessons learned during implementation. The project
would include US$200,000 equivalent for fellowships, study trips, consultant
services and administrative costs related to project evaluation.



- 33 -
3.28      In particular, under the general organization of the Planning
Department of the Ministry of Education and in liaison with headquarters
education staff and the Project Unit, the Government would establish task
forces to evaluate and review: (a) the administration and management of
education at the regional level and its relationship with the Ministry
of Education and with the regional offices of other Ministries, notably the
Ministries of Health and Agriculture; (b) the new primary school curriculum,
particularly in regard to possible regional variations and methods of selection
for secondary education; (c) the teacher training program for the National
Servicemen and their performance in the teaching profession. In order to
evaluate (a), the relevant task force is likely to call on the services of
management specialists and consultants based in Madagascar and of the Public
Administration School of the University; on a selective basis, consultant
services from overseas might be employed. Study trips would possibly be made
to other countries, e.g. Ethiopia, Zambia, Tanzania, that have recently
embarked on a program of decentralization of education administration and
management. For (b) and (c), the task forces would, first of all, select
Malagasy educators for training in formative evaluation techniques, prepare a
fellowship program and organize sample studies. If necessary, the task forces
would call on expatriate education evaluation specialists to assist in the
organization of the studies. The Government has confirmed that: (i) proposals
for the evaluation studies to be conducted under (a), (b) and (c) will be
prepared and sent to the Association for review within twelve months of the
signing of the Credit Agreement; and (ii) from time to time, the Government
and the Association will exchange views on the progress of the studies.
3.29      The evaluation of project implementation would be conducted by
the Project Unit in cooperation with Ministry of Education staff. The Govern-
ment has confirmed that not later than three months before the Closing Date, a
report will be prepared and sent to the Association with a preliminary assess-
ment of the project's operational results and benefits, of the lessons learned
during implementation, and of the Association's role in connection with the
project. Among other things, the report will compare the project and its
original expected benefits with its results as they can be seen when the
project is nearly complete.
3.30      Project administration and pre-investment studies.  Project admin-
istration arrangements are described in the next chapter. With regard to
pre-investment studies, any possible third education project would be
elaborated after Unesco and Bank missions. To avoid delay in the preparation
of such a project, this second project would include funds to meet expenses
incurred in the preparation of site surveys, architectural sketch plans and
preliminary cost estimates. These costs are included as part of project
administration expenditures.



- 34 -
IV. COST ESTIMATES, FINANCIAL PLAN,
IMPLEMENTATION AND PROCUREMENT
AND DISBURSEMENTS
Cost Estimates
4.01      The total cost of the project is estimated at US$19.3 million equi-
valent including taxes. The estimated costs and foreign exchange components
are given in Annex 4.1 and summarized below.
Estimated Cost by Category of Expenditures
% of
FMG (Millions)              US$ (Millions)           Base
Category                    Local   Foreign   Total    Local   Foreign   Total   Cost
1. Civil Works
(a) Regional Educa-
tion Centers          987.3    579.9  1,567.2    4.53        2.66       7.19      54
(b) Teaching Materials
Production Center      84.1      49.4    133.5    0.38       0.23       0.61       5
2.  Equipment, Materials,
Vehicles & Text-
book Development        88.8    503.0    591.8    0.41        2.31       2.72      20
3.  Furniture                97.9     42.0    139.9    0.45        0.19      0.64       5
4.  Architectural/
Engineering
Services _             114.7      12.8    127.5    0.53       0.06       0.59       4
5.  Technical Assistance   49.4    197.8    247.2    0.23          0.90      1.13       8
6.  Project Evaluation        9.2      37.0     46.2    0.04       0.17      0.21       2
7.  Project Admin-
istration               61.0      10.8      71.8    0.28      0.05       0.33       2
Total Base Cost      1,492.4  1,432.7  2,925.1    6.85        6.57      13.42    100
(Oct. 1976)
8. Contingencies
(a) physical (8%)         127.9      91.5    219.4    0.59       0.42       1.01
(b) Price In-
creases (33%)         589.8    464.3  1,054.1    2.70        2.13       4.83
Sub-Total                   717.7    555.8  1,273.5    3.29        2.55      5.84
Total Project Cost /2   2,210.1  1,988.5  4,198.6   10.14          9.12     19.26
/1 Representing about 20 man years at US$30,000 equivalent per man-year.
/2 Includes customs duties and taxes estimated at US$1.78 million equivalent.



- 35 -
Estimated Cost by Project Item
% of
FMG (Millions)             US$ (Millions)        Base    %
Local   Foreign   Total   Local   Foreign  Total  Cost  Foreign
1. Civil Works, Furni-
ture, Equipment,
Materials and
Vehicles
(a) Regional
Education
Centers            1,117.2    834.4   1,951.6   5.12    3.83          8.95    66      43
(b) Teaching
Materials Pro-
duction Center        104.9    136.1      241.0   0.48    0.63        1.11     8      56
2. Textbook
Development              36.0    203.8       239.8   0.17    0.93       1.10      8     85
3. Architectural/
Engineering
Services                114.7      12.8      127.5   0.53    0.06       0.59      4     10
4. Technical
Assistance               49.4    197.8      247.2   0.23    0.90        1.13      8     80
5. Project Evaluation        9.2      37.0       46.2   0.04    0.17       0.21      2      80
6. Project Admin-
istration                61.0      10.8      71.8   0.28    0.05        0.33      2     15
Total Base Cost      1,492.4  1,432.7   2,925.1   6.85    6.57    13.42   100           49
(October 1976)
7. Contingencies
(a) Physical  (8%)        127.9      91.5     219.4   0.59    0.42        1.01
(b) Price In-
creases  (33%)       589.8    464.3   1,054.1   2.70    2.13          4.83
Sub-total               717.7    555.8   1,273.5   3.29    2.55         5.84
Total Project Cost  2,210.1  1,988.5   4,198.6  10.14    9.12    19.26
4.02     The construction costs of the proposed project institutions
vary according to geographical location and generally increase with distance
from Tananarive, the main source of construction enterprises, skilled labor



- 36 -
and materials. October 1976 building costs for the proposed facilities are
expected to vary from US$245 per square meter in Tananarive to US$315 per
square meter in Tulear. These compare with 1975 estimates of secondary
school costs of US$200 per square meter in Lesotho, US$240 per square meter
in Mauritius and US$300 per square meter in Tanzania (Dar-es-Salaam). sketch
designs have been prepared and the maximum use will be made of local materials
and construction techniques.
4.03      Customs Duties and Taxes.  Items imported specifically for the
project could be exempted from direct customs duties and taxes. However,
the procedures are cumbersome and were not employed in the implementation
of the first education project assisted by the Bank Group. Reimbursement
percentages have therefore been calculated to take into account duties and
taxes on civil works and on limited amounts of locally procured furniture,
equipment and vehicles. These taxes are estimated at about US$1.8 million
equivalent.
4.04      Contingency Allowances.  For physical increases 10% has been added
to the base cost of civil works and professional services, and 5% to furni-
ture and equipment costs. Estimated price increases are based upon the appli-
cation of the following annual percentage rates of price escalation to base
cost prices in accordance with the implementation schedule (Annex 4.2):
Civil Works &          Furniture,           Technical Assistance,
Professional           Equipment,           Project Evaluation &
Year           Services       Materials & Vehicles       Project Administration
1976              18                     10                          8
1977-79           15                      8                          8
1980-81           10                      7                          8
The local conditions mentioned in para 4.17 have been taken into account
in the estimates of price increases for civil works.
4.05      The Foreign Exchange Component of US$9.1 million equivalent has
been calculated by Bank Group staff as follows: (a) Civil Works 37%; (b)
Equipment, Materials and Vehicles 85%; (c) Furniture 30%; (d) Professional
Services 10%; (e) Technical Assistance 80%; (f) Project Evaluation 80%; and
(g) Project Administration 15%. A credit of US$14.0 million equivalent
would represent 73% of the total project cost of US$19.3 million including
contingencies and taxes or 80% of the project cost net of taxes. It would
meet all foreign exchange costs and 58% of local costs net of taxes.
Financial Plan
4.06      The total project cost of US$19.3 million equivalent would be
financed as follows:



- 37 -
US $ Million Equivalent
Malagasy
Govt.            IDA           Total
1.   Civil Works                         3.60              6.69          10.29
2.   Equipment, Materials,
and Vehicles                        0.47             2.70          3.17
3.   Furniture                           0.11              0.64          0.75
4.   Architectural/Engineering           0.15              0.62          0.77
Services
5.   Technical Assistance                0.13              1.13          1.26
6.   Project Evaluation                  0.03              0.21          0.24
7.   Project Administration              0.07             0.29          0.36
8.   Unallocated                         0.70              1.72          2.42
TOTAL                          5.26            14.00         19.26
- of which taxes                    1.78              -            1.78
4.07      In any year during project implementation the maximum government
contribution to the project inclusive of taxation is not expected to exceed
US$2.0 million equivalent.  Recurrent costs generated by the project are
estimated at US$2.0 million equivalent at 1976 prices or about 2.5% of the
estimated recurrent cost of education in 1981/82.  The Government attaches
the highest priority to the proposed project and would be able to provide
for recurrent expenditures and for its share of capital costs.
Implementation
4.08      The project would be implemented over a period of about five years
including 12 months for completion of payments and withdrawals (Annex 4.2).
The proposed closing date would be December 31, 1981. Key indicators for
project supervision are included as Annex 4.3.
4.09      An administrative unit would be located within the Ministry of
Works using, as far as possible, existing local staff and established
operational procedures. The unit would include a director, construction
and education coordinators, a procurement officer, an accountant and support-
ing staff. Of the key personnel only the construction coordinator, a suit-
ably experienced architect or engineer, would be appointed full-time. The
project director, a senior architectural official of the Ministry of Works



- 38 -
who has had experience in the implementation of the first education project,
would have overall responsibility for project implementation including inter-
ministerial liaison. As with the first Bank-assisted education project,
procurement, accountancy, other supervisory and support personnel would be
made available by the Ministry of Works to the project when required. The
Ministry of Education would assist the project unit by providing close
coordination on educational matters through a senior education officer.
4.10      The director, the construction coordinator, and the education
coordinator have been appointed and have suitable qualifications and experi-
ence.   The project unit would oversee project implementation, maintain
liaison with IDA and assist in the planning of possible future education
projects.
4.11      Professional Services (Architectural/Engineering).  Madagascar
based consultants have been appointed on terms and conditions acceptable to
the Association to prepare designs for all project institutions and to
supervise construction. Sketch plans for the 5 CAPs have already been
prepared and have been reviewed by the Association.
4.12      Site Selection.  Sites have been selected for the five CAPs and
are suitable. The site for the proposed Teaching Materials Production Center
forms part of the main Tananarive industrial area. All proposed sites are
publicly owned including three which are already the property of the Ministry
of Education. The remaining sites are expected to be vested with the Ministry
of Education without significant delay.
4.13      The Building Industry.  The annual value of buildings constructed
in Madagascar dropped from a high of 4.7 billion FMG in 1971 to low of 1.9
billion FMG in 1973. Some recovery has taken place but in real terms the
value of building construction, estimated at 2.9 billion FMG in 1975, has
only slightly outpaced construction cost increases since 1973.
4.14      The proposed IDA-assisted construction program of about 1.7 billion
FMG at 1975 prices spread over 3 years would annually represent about 19% of
the estimated national output of buildings or 5% of the estimated total value
of all construction works in 1975. This would not pose any major implementa-
tion problems as sufficient construction capacity is available.
4.15      In 1974,70 construction enterprises registered with the Ministry of
Works employed about 8,800 personnel on a permanent basis and of these only
271, representing 3.1% of the total, were expatriates (1973, 4.2%) and were
principally employed in engineering and management capacities. The Govern-
ment has not so far announced any plans for nationalization of the construc-
tion industry despite extensive nationalization of banks and large commercial
undertakings. Most of the major construction firms in Madagascar, often
subsidiaries of foreign firms, are expatriate controlled.



- 39 -
4.16      Of the main construction firms, 42 out of a total of 70 are located
in Tananarive, and many, particularly the large enterprises, compete success-
fully for work in other areas of Madagascar. Permanent skilled work crews
are retained by these contractors and are transported to job sites throughout
the country. It is estimated that about eight Madagascar based contracting
firms would have sufficient capacity to undertake one of the five CAPs and at
least two could undertake the whole construction program.
4.17      Building costs in Madagascar have been affected by worldwide price
increases, and in addition, due to a shortage of foreign currency the Government
has imposed severe restrictions on the importation of construction materials.
Import permits may take up to six months to obtain. This has exerted further
upward pressure on prices as materials cannot be imported in the most eco-
nomical quantities by vendors and distributors. Material supplies have be-
come uncertain and the tendency is to lengthen construction times to compen-
sate. This has been taken account of in the implementation schedule (Annex
4.2). Poor local communications, the difficult terrain, the high cost of
vehicles, fuel, and maintenance difficulties mean high transportation costs.
Building cost increases which from 1969-1973 averaged 10-13% per annum were
15-18% through the period 1973-75 and are not expected to slow down signifi-
cantly in the near future.
Procurement and Disbursements
4.18      Contracts would be awarded in accordance with the Bank Group's
Guidelines for Procurement. International competitive bidding would be used
except for civil works, furniture, equipment and materials contracts costing
less than US$50,000 equivalent each. These contracts are unlikely to attract
foreign bidders and would be awarded after competitive bidding advertised
locally in accordance with local procedures which are acceptable to the
Association. The aggregate amount of such contracts is not expected to
exceed US$500,000 equivalent.
4.19      Standarized sketch designs, draft tender documents and master
lists of furniture, equipment, materials and vehicles indicating proposed
grouping would be reviewed by the Association. Items would be grouped to
the extent practicable to encourage competitive bidding and to permit bulk
procurement. Review of tender evaluation documents by the Association prior
to award would not be required for contracts for civil works, furniture,
equipment and materials of less than US$50,000 equivalent.
4.20      Where international competitive bidding procedures are used,
(i) domestic manufacturers of furniture and equipment would be allowed a
preference of 15% or the existing applicable rate of import duties, whichever
is the lower, over the c.i.f. price of competing foreign suppliers; and (ii)
qualified domestic civil-works contractors would be allowed a preferential
margin of 7-1/2% over the bid prices of competing foreign contractors.



- 40 -
4 21      Disbursement (Annex 4.4) would be on the basis of:  (a) 65% of
expenditures for civil works; (b) 100% of foreign expenditures for directly
imported furniture, instructional equipment, vehicles and materials; (c)
100% of the ex-factory cost of locally manufactured furniture, instructional
equipment and vehicles; (d) 100% of foreign and 50% of local expenditures
for technical assistance, fellowships, and project evaluation; (e) 80% of
total expenditures for locally procured furniture, instructional equipment,
vehicles, materials, local transportation, professional services and project
administration. Disbursement for project administration would be made against
a certificate of expenditure, documentation for which would not be submitted
for review but would be retained by the borrower and would be available for
inspection by the Association during the course of project supervision.
4.22      Retroactive reimbursement of a total sum not exceeding US$200,000
equivalent for approved expenditures incurred after March 1, 1976, and prior
to Credit signing is recommended for (i) the services of consultant archi-
tects for the preparation of sketch plans for the project institutions;
(ii) Project Unit expenditures; and (iii) technical assistance for CNaPMaD
(para 3.21). This could speed up project implementation by about six months
with a potential saving of about US$1 million equivalent.
4.23      Procurement is expected to be completed by June 1980, and the proj-
ect by December 1980 with a proposed Credit Closing Date of December 31, 1981.
Upon agreement between the Government and the Association any funds remaining
upon completion of the project would be used for project related items.



MADAGASCAR
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECr
ESTIMATE OF COSTS C In FH1  lliono)
CONSTRUCTION
BOne LI      Base X       Site                                                     Total Cost of         Profes-    Tech. Asst.                                       TOTAL PROJECT COST
Location   Ecl. site  Lrocalon   Devel-                         Equip-                         Physical Fasilities    s{..al             and           Project    Project             FMG             US$
Ilden        dev.          Indeo      omennt   Total 2&3       mnt           Furniture      FPG CD)        U8$ (C)   Services   Fallowshitv    EvaInation          Unit           (eilli.e.)     (millions)
(1)           (2)         (3)
Al Rogiooal Educ.tion Contars
(e)  Fi-naraotnoo                                   207         223.4         268.1      40.2        308.3        33.5           25.8             367.6        1.686
(b)  Toenrove                                       10%         223.4         245.7      36.9         282.6       30.8           23.7             337.1        1.546
(c)  Majunga                                        207%        223.4         268.1      40.2         308.3       33.5           25.8             367.6        1.686
(d)  Tulect                                         307.        223.4         290.4      43.6         334.0       36.4           28.0             398.4        1.828
(e)  Diego-Sncres                                   30%         223.4         290.4      43.6        334.8        36.4           28.0             398.4        1.828
Sub-total                                           1.117 0       1.362.7    204.5        1.567.2       170.6          131.3          1.869.1        8.574       117.5
A2  Vehicles - 95 no.  f(o  inspecteortt                              -             -           -           -          82.5            -                82.5        0.378         -
B   Toochino Motoriols Prod-ction Centnr
T-nanarive                                           07.         116.1        116.1       17.4        133.5        98.9            8.6            241.0        1.106        10.0
C  Tntbhoolk Dclon- t                                                  -             -         -             -        239.8            -               239.8        1.100
D   Prof.snion.l Services                                             -             -           -           -           -                               -                      1275
E   Technical Ansis.thnco
(a)  2x2 ncn-yeocs fellavships                                                                                                                                                            7.4
(b)  a man-yearn tech.  ossistasce
for Teaching Matecials Prod. Center                                                                                                                                                193.6
(c) 4 meo-ye-rs tech. nssintance for
otatisti-ol nid                                                                                                                                                                     46.2
Sob-total E                                             -             -           -          -            -              -                -             -           -          247.2
F   Proiect Evalo-tion                                                                                                                                                                                      46.2
G   Project Unit
C()  Oporation and mainte.c...                                                                                                                                                                                       37.1
(b)  Preinvestmn-t studies                                                                                                                                                                                           a4-7
Sub-total                                              -            -            -          -            -              -                -             -           -            -              -           71.8
Bane Proijct Cost (A-G)-                                      1,233.1       1,478.8    221.9       1,700.7        591.8          139.9          2,432.4       11.157       127.5         247.2          46.2         71.8            2,925.1          13.41&
Physicol inere.ses                                                                                    170.0        29.6            7.0             206.6       0.948        12.8            -                           -              219.4           1.006
Bone + phynicel Ono-o.n..                                                                           1,870.7       621.4          146.9           2,639.0       12.105      140.3         247.2          46.2          71.6            3,144.5         14.424
Priie incteose snosst                                                                                 744.5       141.1           33.4             919.0        4.216        55.8         53.7          10.0          15.6            1,054.1          4.835
TOTAL PROJECT COST
Tn FMG (millions)                                                                         2,615,2       762.5          180.3           3,558.0                    196.1        300.9          56.Z          87.4            4,198.6
Is In    (millions)                                                                          11.996       3,498          0.827                       16.321         0,899         1.380        0.758         0.401                          19.259
Foreino   Encheng  Co noonenl                                                                          37%         853.           30h.                                       1/.          807.          807.          15%                             477%
(F.E.C.) US$ millions                                                                          4.439       2.973          0.248                                      0.098         1.104        0.214         0.060                           9.128
f ohich taCes                                                                                 1,58         0.10            -                                        0.10           _                                                          1.78
/1  As of October 1976



MADAGASCAR
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
1976                           1977                            1978                             1979                            1980                            1981
eRtional Education Centers (CAPs)
Appoint-ent conaultant_
Prep, sketch pians and IDA revew_
Working drwings and pre-tender
TSnder and contract award
Cno.tm,stion
Guarartee period
Tecin   ttsii  Prod.ctEoo
Ceneer  (CNaFMIaD)                                                                                                                |                                               
Appointaent consultants
Prep, sketch plano end TDA reviw-
Working drawings aod prt-tender
T.nder-award of contract
C...tr-Cti.n___                                                                                                                                                 _     _     _
Garantee Pe-iod                                                                                                                                                                                             Sue-.i4  .ra,e
Equipent. Fornit.re and MateriEls
(a)  Vehicles for inspectarate                                    Prep,     ott    T. Aard                       i
(b)  Paper sopplies                                                                                                                                          -re      p, el  -       -  -
()CAP                                                                                                   trsp.4Eets    T. Aw, Ddli                                                                                                       j
(d)  CNaPMaD                                                                             IL                                                   t I  IstT. A  rd lliry   $                               er  alls,    ded_ elive
T(Chnbi al Aitc                                                                                                                                                                   |  
(i)  fellowships 2x2 nan-year|
(ii)  production engineer (4 non--eyro                                            |                                  -                                                                        =
(iii)  other - (14 nan-ynara)
(b)  Edocational Statistics & Plannin-                                                   |                                                                                                                                                                 ic-



-43-
ANNEX-4,:L
MADAGASCAR
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
Key Indicators for Supervision
Physical Indicators
FMC Expended to Date
(related to items on      % of Plan
expenditure schedule)    at Appraisal
Design
Construction
Furniture
Equipment
Number of inspectorate vehicles in use
Educational Indicators
Accomplishments by          Planned
Date of Supervision      Accomplishment
Mission              at Appraisal
Number of National Servicemen
in Training - project insti-
tutions
- other
- number employed in schools
- from project institutions
- from other institutions
C.i.f. value of equipment
produced by CNaPMaD
- estimated actual cost of pro-
duction
Number of student guides produced
Number of textbooks produced
Number of student guides supplied
to schools                                     -
Number of textbooks supplied to
schools
Staffing for CAPs
Staffing for CNaPMaD



-44-
ANNEX 4.4
MADAGASCAR
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
ESTIMATED SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENTS
(US$'000)
Accumulated          Undisbursed
Quarter!/            Disbursements         Disbursements            Balance
1                                                                14,000
2                        -                     -                 14,000
3                       80                     80                13,920
4                      100                    180                13,820
5                      100                    280                13,720
6                      110                   390                 13,610
7                      560                   950                 13,050
8                      780                 1,730                 12,270
9                    1,100                 2,830                 11,170
10                    1,120                 3,950                 10,050
11                    1,250                 5,200                  8,800
12                    1,410                 6,610                  7,390
13                    1,410                 8,020                  5,980
14                    1,530                 9,550                  4,450
15                    1,440                10,990                  3,010
16                    1,410                12,400                  1,600
17                      900                13,300                    700
18                      600                13,900                    100
19                      100                14,000
1/ Starting from date of credit effectiveness.



- 45 -
V. BENEFITS AND RISKS
5.01      Benefits.  Fundamental changes must be made in the content of
education and its delivery system if the education and training system of
Madagascar is to meet the needs of mass participation in development in
line with the socialist objectives of the Government. This is fully realized
by the new Government, and the Charter of the Malagasy Socialist Revolution
explicitly recognizes the importance of education in the achievement of
development with self-reliance. Future development is expected to be based on
the village associations or fokonolona. The proposed project would support
the Government's education sector reform and decentralization policies. The
development of a more relevant primary curriculum would be assisted by strength-
ening and providing new facilities for the Curriculum Research and Development
Bureau, training National Servicemen as teachers of the new curriculum,
supplying vehicles to enable more frequent inspectorate visits to schools, and
improving the production and distribution of student and teacher guides and
textbooks. The textbook element of the project would benefit particularly
poorer students who have access to books neither at home nor in school; it
would also assist greatly the teachers especially because of the very high
class sizes in Madagascar. The quality of secondary education would be
improved by the development of a Center to produce much needed scientific and
practical equipment for distribution to the schools, and by the training of
teachers in the use of this equipment.
5.02      Because of this emphasis on change in the content and delivery
system, it is difficult to quantify the benefits of the project or to represent
them statistically. The regional project institutions would each train 120
National Servicemen at a time: their output would thus be about 1,800 per
annum and when fully operational there would be in the primary school system
3,600 teachers who had been trained in the centers. Together with National
Servicemen training in teacher college facilities, they would meet about 60%
of the need; the remainder would be trained in secondary schools. More
significantly, they would support a bold and imaginative strategy to help
solve, at the same time, the problems of overcentralization of the system,
high pupil:teacher ratios and limited resources. The teaching materials
production center would supply about a half of the need of secondary schools
for scientific equipment and prototypes for all primary schools teaching aids.
The book production project item would enable one million pupils (the present
primary enrollment) to have a textbook and a student guide in each of the main
study areas (Malagasy, mathematics, environmental studies, and Eractical work)
as compared with having only a book for every ten students as estimated at
present.
5.03      Risks.  There are many risks associated with the project, chiefly
because of its highly innovative nature. They principally relate to an incom-
plete definition of government plans for educational decentralization and to
its lack of experience in running a materials production center. There is
a risk therefore that the teaching facilities in the regional education cen-
ters may be used for administration, and that the materials production
center would function at less than optimum efficiency. Although the primary



- 46 -
school curriculum has been revised, much work is still needed to put it into
effect in the schools - the writing and rewriting of teaching guides, the
retraining of teachers, the supply of materials to schools - all these pre-
sent problems. Because of these risks, all project items would be closely
monitored as a part of project evaluation. Technical assistance would be
provided for the production center, whose size has been kept small in relation
to total needs.
5.04      In spite of these risks, the project is to be recommended; its
elements are cardinal to the achievement of those strategic elements of the
Government's educational policies which are most worth support.
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01      Agreement was reached with the Government on the following principal
points:
(a) Education decentralization, and evaluation studies
(paras. 3.05, 3.28, 3.29); and
(b) staffing and operation of CNaPMaD (para. 3.20).
6.02      In additior. to the usual conditions, the definitions of the functions
and responsibilities of the CAPs by a ministerial decree and the appointment
of key personnel for the CNaPMaD would be conditions of Credit effectiveness
(paras. 3.04, 3.21).
6.03      Retroactive financing is recommended for (i) the services of con-
sultant architects; (ii) Project Unit expenditures; and (iii) technical
assistance for the CNaPMaD (para 4.22).
6.04      The proposed project is recommended for an IDA Credit of US$14
million equivalent.



- 47 -
VII.   RELATED DOCUMENTS AND DATA
AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT FILE
A. GENERAL REPORTS AND STUDIES RELATING TO EDUCATION
1. Madagascar: New Orientations in Education, Unesco, March 1972.
Volumes I and II.
2. Rapport Provisoire de la Commission Technique Interministerielle
(Preliminary Report of the Interministerial Technical Committee),
April 1973.
3. National Recurrent Budget 1975 - Ministry of National Education.
4. Volavolam - Pandaharam - Pianarana Momba ny Fanabeazana Fototra Nataon'ny
Programmes de l'Education de Base elabores a Ilafy (Revised
Primary School Curricula), 1975.
5. Fandaharam - Pianarana Ambaratonga Faharoa, Programmes de l'Enseignement
Secondaire (Revised Secondary School Curricula), 1975.
6.  Rapport d'Execution du "Plan National de Developpement" 1974-77(Ministere
de l'Education Nationale) (Execution of National Development Plan with
respect to Ministry of National Education), October 1975.
7.  Etude sur l'Evolution du Budget du Ministere de l'Education Nationale
1972 a 1975 (Implementation of Ministry of National Education
Budget 1972-1975), 1975.
8. Charte de la Revolution Socialiste Malagasy (Charter of the Malagasy
Socialist Revolution), October 1975
B. REPORTS AND STUDIES RELATING TO THE PROJECT
1. Conditions Generales Applicables a la Passation et a l'Execution des
Marches Publics de Travaux finances par le Fonds Europeen de
Developpement (General Tender Conditions for FED Projects in Mada-
gascar), 1972.
2. Activites des Entreprises de Travaux Publics et de Batiments (Record
of Activities of Ministry of Public Works), 1973.
3. Breakdown of Secondary School Construction Cost, Ministry of Public
Works, 1975.
4.  Requete du Gouvernement Malagasy a la Banque Mondiale (Unesco Prepara-
tion Documents Proposed Second Education Project) Two Volumes:
15a and 15b, October 1975.
5. Note d'Information Generale pour les Appels d'Offres Internationaux
(FED-Prets) (International Competitive Bidding - FED Projects),
Ministry of Public Works, May 1975.



- 48 -
C. SELECTED WORKING PAPERS OF THE PROJECT
1. Proposed Second Education Project - Centre National pour la
Production de Materiel Didactique a Tananarive (CNaPMaD).
2. Second Education Project - Worksheets



IBRD 120
4C                :                * > ,FEBMUAftY IW
MADA(M$A
SECOND ED.   -  P ; t                                                                    A bdoe 
PAVED ROADS      * -
ALL WEATHER ROADI
------ RNWOAI. RS
+    AIAPOATS,---- - .
Ts.iroaE; mon       %                    P!rtsczrO ins
-w        /W-8 ( AmBbS=-v)/{//  M3
9/              _ (Meooooortrlo ,crrn   vn       
..            S                     #('        -R|       f tno / ;\&>             S       . 
,                                                  . Kfo; S ea.   A dd=e
olmbony8s oobS   -................................5yx    .......   
r ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
A    Ampon  1.                 /4    ,         t    {$       < ,; F R IA   C A... b
As  /   X -e         A      -   s                    ,r }e       .    ,0       Ce~~~~~an
Ah./rn'\,,  "
T' ro  rr Ck                                                              J      M
t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~nni                                                                                     C7 4^    14 



