CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 663 MAG
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
(Second Education Project)
between
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated December 10, 1976


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 10, 1976, between DEMOCRATIC
REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR (hereinafter called the Borrower) and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association).


﻿ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the Gen-
eral Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "CAP" means Centre Acad6mique Provincial, an agency of
the Ministry of the Borrower responsible for Education established
in each provincial capital outside Tananarive pursuant to the Bor-
rower's Decree No. 76-281 dated September 9, 1976 and referred to
in Section 3.02 of this Agreement, or any successor thereto;
(b) "CNAPMAD" means Centre National our la Production de
Mat4riels Didactiques, a national teaching materials production
center established under the Ministry of the Borrower responsible
for Education pursuant to the Borrower's Decree No. 76-282 dated
September 9, 1976 and referred to in Section 3.03 of this Agree-
ment, or any successor thereto; and


﻿-3-
(c) "PIU" means the Project Implementation Unit referred to
in Section 3.04 of this Agreement and established pursuant to the
Borrower's Ministerial Decision No. 1982 dated October 13, 1976.


﻿ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to fourteen million dollars ($14,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may b- amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Association, for
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
contracts for the purchase of goods or for civil works required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit,
shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3
to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1981 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Association
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.


﻿-5-
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually
on April 15 and October 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each April 15
and October 15 commencing April 15, 1987, and ending October 15,
2026, each installment to and including the installment payable
on October 15, 1996 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one
and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the Gen-
eral Conditions.


﻿- 6 -
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project through
its Ministry responsible for Public Works and its Ministry respon-
sible for Education with due diligence and efficiency and in con-
formity with appropriate administrative, financial, architectural
and educational practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed,
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for
the purpose.
Section 3.02. In accordance with its decentralization plans,
the Borrower shall establish and maintain, in each of the provincial
capitals outside Tananarive, an adequately staffed Centre Acadgmigue
Provincial (CAP) responsible for the organization and programming
of the activities of the education sector of the province as well
as for the training of teachers in the province and shall make or
cause to be made available to the CAPs promptly as needed all funds,
facilities and other resources required for such purposes.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall establish and maintain with-
in its Ministry responsible for Education CNAPMAD and shall at all
times make or cause to be made available to CNAPMAD, promptly as
needed, all staff, funds, facilities and other resources required
for the effective operation, equipping and maintenance of CNAPMAD.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall maintain within its Ministry
responsible for Public Works a Project Implementation Unit (PIU)
responsible for the supervision and proper execution of the Project,


﻿such unit to be headed by a director who shall be assisted on a
full-time basis by a construction coordinator and on a part-time
basis by an education liaison officer of the Ministry of the Bor-
rower responsible for Education, all with qualifications and expe-
rience satisfactory to the Association, and to be provided with
such supporting staff from the Ministry of the Borrower responsible
for Public Works and the Ministry of the Borrower responsible for
Education as shall be required for PIU to discharge its functions
and responsibilities with due diligence and efficiency.
Section 3.05. In order to assist the Borrower in the prepara-
tion of designs and the supervision of the construction works,
included in the Project, the Borrower shall employ engineering (or
architectural) consultants whose qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the
Association.
Section 3.06. For the purposes of Part C.1 of the Project,
the Borrower shall cause CNAPMAD to employ the following experts
whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of em-
ployment shall be satisfactory to the Association:
(a) a production/industrial engineer who shall assist the
consultants referred to in Section 3.05 of this Agreement in the
design and engineering layout of the facilities included in Part
A.2 of the Project;
(b) a design expert to be responsible for the design of
school equipment appropriate for manufacture by CNAPMAD; and


﻿-81-
(c) upon completion of the facilities included in Part A.2
of the Project: (i) two production/industrial engineers to be
responsible for the establishment and operation of CNAPMAD's
machine shop and fitting shop, respectively; (ii) a production/
industrial technician to be responsible for the establishment and
operation of CNAPMAD's woodwork shop; and (iii) a production/indus-
trial electrical technician to be responsible for the establishment
and operation of CNAPMAD's electrical shop.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall (a) establish and thereafter
maintain within its Ministry responsible for Education task forces
to evaluate and review: (i) the administration and management of
the education sector at the provincial level, (ii) the new primary
school curriculum and the new selection and examination procedures
for entry into secondary schools and (iii) the Borrower's teacher
training program for the National Servicemen;
(b) not later than twelve months from the date of this Agree-
ment, or such other date as shall be agreed with the Association,
furnish to the Association, for its review, its proposed program
of evaluation studies to be carried out under (a) above; and
(c) consult the Association, from time to time, on the ade-
quacy of the scope and form of such studies and their progress.
Section 3.08. Not later than three months before the Closing
Date, or such other date as shall be agreed with the Association,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Association for review a prelim-
inary assessment cf the Project's operational results and benefits
and the administrative, economic and social impact of the Project
on the education sector in the Democratic Republic of Madagascar.


﻿-9-
Section 3.09. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards in-
cident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to
the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any in-
demnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Bor-
rover to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall cause all goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.10. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and work and procurement schedules
for the Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably re-
quest.
(b) The Borrower: (2) shall maintain records adequate to
record the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof)
and to identify the goods and services financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Credit, and to disclose the use thereof in the Proj-
ect; (ii) shall enable the Association's accredited representa-
tives to visit the facilities and construction sites included in
the Project and to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and any relevant records and documents; and (iii)
shall furnish to the Association all such information as the Asso-
ciation shall reasonably request concerning the Project, the ex-
penditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and services
financed out of such proceeds.


﻿- 10 -
Section 3.11. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when needed
all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be required
for the construction (and operation) of the facilities included in
the Project and shall furnish to the Association, promptly after
such acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the Association that such
land and rights in respect of land are available for purposes related
to the Project.


﻿- 11 -
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with consis-
tently maintained appropriate accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of the de-
partments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out the Project or any part thereof.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall cause the buildings, equip-
ment and vehicles of the educational institutions included in the
Project to be adequately operated and maintained, shall cause all
necessary repairs thereof to be made promptly, all in accordance
with appropriate engineering practices and shall provide, or cause
to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities and other
resources required for such purposes.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall, not later than one year as
of the date of this Agreement, or such other date as shall be
agreed with the Association, furnish to the Association all such
information as the Association shall reasonably request with re-
spect to the Borrower's plans for decentralization of its education
system and the delineation of responsibilities between the Bor-
rover's central and provincial services as well as the autonomy
of the Borrower's provincial services with regard to the financing
of their activities in the education sector and the appointment of
teachers at various levels.


﻿- 12 -
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agree-
ment within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Con-
ditions:
(a) the functions and responsibilities of the CAPs have been
defined by an Arr6te of the Ministry of the Borrower responsible
for Education, in accordance with Section 3.02 of this Agreement;
and
(b) the production/industrial engineer and the design expert
referred to in Section 3.06 (a) and (b) of this Agreement have
been appointed.
Section 5.02. The following is specified as an additional mat-
ter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Condi-
cions, to be inciuded in the opinion or opinions to be furnished
to the Association, namely, that the establishment of the CAPs has
been authorized or ratified by all necessary governmental action.
Section 5.03. The date March 10, 1977 is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿- 13 -
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Ministre charg4 des Finances et du Plan of
the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for
the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministere charge des Finances et du Plan
Tananarive
Madagascar
Cable address:
MINFINPLAN
Tananarive
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.


﻿IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
By /s/ Charles Randrianasolo
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ W. Wapenhans
Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of
the amount of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category               Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Civil works                 6,700,000         65%
(2) Furniture, instruc-         3,300,000
tional equipment,
vehicles and mate-
rials
(a) directly im-                             100% of foreign
ported                                  expenditures
(b) locally manu-                            100% of local ex-
factured                                penditures ex-
factory
(c) other                                    80% of local ex-
penditures
(3) Technical assistance        1,300,000         100% of foreign
and fellowships                              expenditures and
50% of local ex-
penditures
(4) Architectural and             600,000        80%
engineering consul-
tants' services


﻿- 16 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category               Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(5) Administrative and            300,000        80%
operational expen-
ditures
(5) Unallocated                1,800,000
TOTAL      14,000,000


﻿- 17 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in re-
spect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made (a) in respect of payments made for expendi-
tures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals,
in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of $200,000,
may be made in respect of Categories (3), (4) and (5) on account
of payments made for such expenditures before that date but after
March 1, 1976.


﻿- 18 -
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph 1
above, if the Association has reasonably estimated that the amount
of the Credit then allocated to any Category will be insufficient
to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Cate-
gory, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallo-
cate to such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then allocated to
another Category and which in the opinion of the Association are
not needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii) if such realloca-
tion cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the dis-
bursement percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order
that further withdrawals under such Category may continue until
all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expendi-
tures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit and the Association may, without in any way restricting or
limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association under
the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, can-
cel such amount of the Credit as, in the Association's reasonable
opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which would
otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of
the Credit.


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The purpose of the Project is to assist the Borrower in its
plans to decentralize educational control and to improve the quality
and efficiency of basic education. The Project consists of the fol-
lowing parts:
Part A:   Construction of buildings and provision of furniture and
equipment for:
1.   the five CAPs, in addition to the provision of vehi-
cles for the CAP's school inspectorate;
2.   CNAPMAD.
Part B:   Provision of book production equipment and paper for the
printing of about 4,000,000 student guides and textbooks
under the supervision of the Ministry of the Borrower
responsible for Education.
Part C:   Provision of technical assistance for:
1.   CNAPMAD in its initial operating stages;
2.   the statistical section of the Ministry of the
Borrower responsible for Education;
3.   Project evaluation.


﻿- 20 -
Part D:   Pre-investment studies, including preparation of site sur-
veys and architectural sketch plans for future projects.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31,
1980.


﻿- 21 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   General Procedures
1.   Except as provided in Part A.4 hereof, contracts for the pur-
chase of goods or for civil works shall be procured in accordance
with procedures consistent with those set forth in Part A of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in August 1975 (hereinafter called the Guide-
lines), on the basis of international competitive bidding.
2.   Goods and civil works shall be grouped under arrangements
satisfactory to the Association so as to encourage competition and,
with respect to goods, to permit bulk procurement consistent with
appropriate technical and procuremexi; practices.
3.   Contractors shall be required to prequalify as described in
paragraph 1.3 of Part A of the Guidelines, and at least 30 days
shall be allowed for submission of prequalification documents.
4.   Contracts for furniture, equipment, materials, vehicles and
civil works estimated to cost less than $50,000 may be let on the
basis of competitive bidding advertised locally, under procedures
acceptable to the Association.
B.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for
Domestic Manufacturers
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods (except those to be procured in accordance with


﻿- 22 -
local procedures): (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods, or the ex-
factory price for domestically-manufactured goods; (ii) customs
duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and sales and sim-
ilar taxes on domestically-supplied goods, shall be excluded; and
(iii) the cost to the Borrower of inland freight and other expen-
ditures incidental to the delivery of goods to the place of their
use or installation shall be included.
2.   Goods manufactured in the Democratic Republic of Madagascar
may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and sub-
ject to, the following provisions:
(a) All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the infor-
mation required to establish the eligibility of a bid for such
preference and the following methods and stages that will be fol-
lowed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b) After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in the Dem-
ocratic Republic of Madagascar if the bidder shall
have established to the satisfaction of the Borrower
and the Association that the manufacturing cost of
such goods includes a value added in the Democratic
Republic of Madagascar equal to at least 20% of the
ex-factory bid price of such goods.


﻿- 23 -
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in the Democratic Republic of Madagascar.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c) All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes on
goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest evalu-
ated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall then be
compared with each other, and if, as a result of this comparison,
a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected
for the award.
(d) If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c)
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this fur-
ther comparison only, an amount equal to (i) the amount of cus-
toms duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer
would have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in
such group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such
goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price.
If the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.


﻿- 24~ -
C.   Evaluation anu tomparison of Bids for Civil Works; Preference
for Domestic Contractors
With respect to any contract for civil works included under
Category 1 of the table set forth in Schedule 1 to the Credit Agree-
ment and to be procureC in accordance with the procedures described
in Part A.1 of this Schedule, the Borrower may grant a margin of
preference of 7-1/2% to domestic contractors, in accordance with,
and subject to, the following provisions:
(a) Contractors shall be required to prequalify as provided
in Part A.3 of this Schedule and applicants for qualification apply-
ing also for such preference shall be asked to provide, as part of
the data for qualification. such information, including details of
ownership, as shall be required to determine whether, according to
the classification established by the Borrower and accepted by the
Association, a particular firm or group of firms qualifies for a
domestic preference. The bidding documents shall clearly indicate
the preference and the method that will be followed in the evalua-
tion and comparison of bids to give effect to such preference.
(b) After bids have been received and reviewed by the Bor-
rower, responsive bids will be classified into the following
groups:
(i) bids offered by domestic contractors eligible for
preference; and
(ii)  .Las offered by other contractors.


﻿- 25 -
For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids an amount
equal to 7-1/2% of the bid amount shall be added to bids received
under group (ii) above.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of prequalification. The Borrower shall, before quali-
fication is invited, inform the Association in detail of the pro-
cedure to be followed, and shall introduce such modifications in
said procedure as the Association shall reasonably request. The
list of prequalified bidders, together with a statement of their
qualifications and, where applicable, of their eligibility for do-
mestic preference under Part C above and of the reasons for the ex-
clusion of any applicant for prequalification and for such eligi-
bility shall be furnished by the Borrower to the Association for its
comments before the applicants are notified of the Borrower's deci-
sion, and the Borrower shall make such additions to, deletions from,
or modifications in, the said list as the Association shall reason-
ably request.
2.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
With respect to all contracts for goods or civil works esti-
mated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together


﻿- 26-
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably re-
quest. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower
shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform the As-
sociation of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in sufficient
time for its review, a detailed report, by the consultants referred
to in Section 3.05 of this Agreement, on the evaluation and compari-
son of the bids received, together with the recommendations for award
of the said consultants and such other information as the Association
shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it determines
that the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons
for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, with-
out the Association's concurrence, materially differ from those on
which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Association of the first application for with-
drawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such contract.


﻿- 27 -
3.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Credit and not governed by the preceding paragraph,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly after its
execution and prior to the submission to the Association of the
first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account
in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract,
together with the analysis of the respective bids, recommendations
for award and such other information as the Association shall rea-
sonably request. The Association shall, if it determines that the
award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or
this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons
for such determination.


