Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
Report No: 20927
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IF-N0350; TF-21083)
ONA
INTERIM FUND CREDIT N035-0 BOS
IN THE AMOUNT OF EQUIVALENT to SDR 7.7 MILLION
TO
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
FOR A SECOND EMERGENCY EDUCATION RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
November 16, 2000
South East Europe Country Unit
Human Development Sector Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective November 16, 2000)
Currency Unit = Convertible Mark
KM 1 = US$ 0.4391741
US$ 1 = KM 2.2770010
FISCAL YEAR
January 1  to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BH                    Bosnia and Herzegovina
CY                    Calendar Year
DC                    Direct Contracting
Federation of BiH     Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina
EBRD                  European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
EC                    European Commission
ECHO                  European Community Humanitarian Organization
EU                    European Union
FY                    Fiscal Year of the World Bank
GPN                   General Procurement Notice
IBD                   International Book Development
ICB                   International Competitive Bidding
IDA                   International Development Association
IMG                   International Management Group
IS                    International Shopping
LIB                   Limited International Bidding
MOE                   Ministry of Education
NCB                   National Competitive Bidding
NS                    National Shopping
OECD                  Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
OHR                   Orifice of High Representative
PIU                   Project Implementation Unit
RS                    Republika Srpska
SNCB                  Simplified National Competitive Bidding
SOE                   Statement of Expenditures
TA                    Technical Assistance
TFBH                  Trust Fund for Reconstruction of Bosnia and Herzegovina
TOR                   Terms of Reference
UNDP                  United Nations Development Program
UNICEF                United Nations Children's Education Fund
UNHCR                 United Nations High Conumission for Refugees
USAID                 United States Agency for International Development
Vice President:    Johanes F. Linn, ECAVP
Country Manager/Director:    Christiaan J. Poortman, ECCO4
Sector Manager/Director:    James A. Socknat, ECSHD
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Zorica Lesic, ECSHD



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
SECOND EMERGENCY EDUCATION RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
INTERIM FUND CREDIT N035-0 BOS
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                          1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                         1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry               1
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                  5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                    9
6. Sustainability                                                                       10
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                        11
8. Lessons Learned                                                                      12
9. Partner Comments                                                                     13
10. Additional Information                                                              13
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                    14
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                    15
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                    17
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                    18
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                    20
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                       21
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                   22
Annex 8. Borrower's Contribution to ICR                                                 23
MAP 1BRD28578R
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P045313                                         Project Name: Education Reconstruction
Team Leader: Zorica Lesic                                   TL Unit: ECSHD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                          Report Date: November 16, 2000
1. Project Data
Name: Education Reconstruction                         L/C/TFNNumber: IF-N0350; TF-21083
Country/Department: BOSNIA-HERZEGOVINA                                      Region: Europe and Central
Asia Region
Sector/subsector: EP - Primary Education; EY - Other Education
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:  04/01/96                                  Effective: 09/27/97            09/25/97
Appraisal:  11/14/96                                    MTR:
Approval:  08/28/97                                  Closing: 06/30/99             06/30/2000
Borrower/Implementing Agency: GOVERNMENT OF BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA/FEDERATION/RS
MINISTRIES OF EDUCATION
Other Partners:
STAFF                 Current                                     At Appraisal
Vice President:       Johanes F. Linn                             Johanes F. linn
Country Manager:      Christiaan J. Poortman                      Christine Wallich
Sector Manager:       James Socknat                               Ralph W. Harbison
Team Leader at ICR:   Zorica Lesic                                James A. Stevens
ICR Primary Author:   Zorica Lesic; Ilona E. Szemzo;
James A. Stevens
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Ouitcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Inpact: M
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entry:                         S
Project at Risk atAnv Time:



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
In December 1995, the Federation of BiH established a priority reconstruction program which called for
repair or reconstruction of damaged facilities at all levels of education system. The total cost of this
program was estimated at US$ 180 million. This original program did not include school reconstruction
needs for the Republika Srpska (RS) because there was, at that time, no agreed primary school
reconstruction program for the RS. In 1996, the priority program was expanded to include priority
reconstruction needs in the Republika Srpska. The total costs of this expanded priority program were
estimated at US$275 million. The program included 91 primary schools which the Federation aimed to
reconstruct in a first phase of reconstruction, prior to the start of the 1996-1997 school year. This first
phase was supported by a first Emergency Education Reconstruction Project which was costed at US$32.8
million. Of this total, US$10 million was provided by the World Bank. It was expected that the remaining
US$22.8 million of project funding would be provided by other donors. Although there had been firm
commitments from other donors totaling US$82 million for the education sector, relatively little of this
amount - about US$10.5 million - was provided for specific activities included under the first Emergency
Education Reconstruction Project. This reflected the donor driven prioritization of reconstruction and the
priority given by the government and other donors to investments in secondary and higher education.
In order to prevent further delays in implementation of the un-funded portions of the priority program and
to begin to address long term development issues in education, the Bank and the Government agreed to
pursue a two-part strategy. First, SDR 7.7 million in additional Interim Fund funding was approved under
a Second Emergency Education Reconstruction Project designed to: a) partially cover the financing gap for
the priority primary school reconstruction program developed under the first project, b) initiate education
reconstruction in the Republika Srpska, c) develop new mechanisms for textbook production and financing
involving private publishers, and d) begin to address the unresolved medium-term questions of education
finance and administration. Second, the Government, the Bank, and other major donors in the sector
agreed to work together using grant financing to: (i) strengthen institutions, (ii) improve the quality of
textbooks and educational materials, (iii) design new curricula, and (iv) rationalize the govemance and
finance of all levels of education, including higher education.
The objectives of the Second Emergency Education Reconstruction Project were to improve primary
education access and quality by reconstructing primary schools throughout Bosnia and Herzegovina,
including schools which were ready for tendering but for which financing was not available under the first
Emergency Education Reconstruction Project, and all war-damaged primary schools in the Republika
Srpska. The project also financed the emergency provision of textbooks. This financing helped achieve the
first project's objective of helping to restore the delivery of primary education of acceptable quality to the
children of BiH. In addition to these reconstruction objectives, the project (1) helped build government
implementation capacity to plan and deliver reconstruction and education programs; (2) piloted a
competitive textbook procurement model in which publishers submitted published textbooks for Ministry
evaluation and selection; (3) financed the production of an education governance study; and (4) helped
promote cooperation across the constituent groups.
The objectives of the project were clear and realistic. The primary school reconstruction objective has been
exceeded by incorporating additional schools for returning refugees. The first textbook pilot, as well as the
follow-up training for all Cantons was successfully completed in the Bosniac-majority areas of the
Federation. The goal of providing shared textbooks across the Bosniac and Croat parts of the Federation
has not materialized due to political resistance on the part of the Croat constituency. English language
training textbooks were successfully procured for the Bosniac-majority areas of the Federation in a second
- 2 -



phase of textbook procurement. The project has, however, met with some success in the sharing of
packages of supplemental reading materials across all parts of the Federation, albeit in translated form (the
Croat and Bosniac language variations). The Education Governance, Finance and Administration Study
was completed in mid- 1999 through a joint venture between the Council of Europe and the World Bank.
Although the study was completed ten months after its original schedule, the delay contributed to increased
dialogue and consensus among all parties. The recommendations of this study were incorporated into the
design of the Education Development Project (FY00).
3.2 Revised Objective:
Although the overall project objectives remained unchanged, the detailed objective of sharing textbooks
across the two constituencies of the Federation was not an explicit objective in the original project
documentation, but was adopted during project implementation as an important element of promoting
cooperation across the constituent groups. While the level of cooperation and dialogue within the
Federation and between the Federation and RS did improve significantly during project implementation --
and the project itself provided an important vehicle for such cooperation -- the goal of shared textbooks in
the Federation proved unfeasible within the project time period.
3.3 Original Comiponents:
Project components at appraisal were:
* Primary School Reconstruction and Furnishing
The original objective of this component was to finance reconstruction and furnishing of 25 war-damaged
primary schools - 18 primary schools in the Federation of BiH and 7 heavily damaged schools in the RS.
However, as a reflection of the rapidly changing environment for reconstruction programming in BiH, the
average investment cost per school was lower than expected and the project exceeded its original target of
25 beneficiary primary schools. The School Rehabilitation and Fumishing component funded civil works
and equipment for 44 primary schools throughout BiH; 25 primary schools were reconstructed in the
Federation of BiH and 19 primary schools in the RS. This increase in the number of schools benefited
under the project is a reflection of Schools reconstructed under the project were selected on the basis of two
principal criteria: I) war-related damaged (including schools damaged by refugees or military occupation);
and 2) schools in UNHCR priority areas for return of refugees and displaced people. As the agency
responsible for overseeing the school reconstruction process at the Federation level, the Federation MOE
took the lead in defining criteria for selection and reaching agreement on the criteria with the Bank, as well
as for working with canton-level ministries and other education authorities to apply the criteria to the needs
of the various municipalities. Selection of primary schools for reconstruction in RS was carried out by the
RS MOE, in cooperation with RS regions/municipalities using the same selection criteria and procedures as
agreed with the Federation. Civil works were of good quality, and the World Bank supervision effort
benefited from the presence of a full time consultant in the PIU, financed through Dutch Grant financing.
In the Federation, furniture and equipment were provided to 18 project schools by the Dutch Government.
and the IDA credit financed fumiture and equipment for the remaining 7 project schools. In the RS, the
IDA credit financed furniture and equipment for all 19 project schools.
*   Textbooks and Educational Materials
This component was designed to help fill the financing gap under the first Emergency Education
Reconstruction Project for printing of textbooks by financing 20 more of previously agreed textbooks titles.
- 3 -



14 new math and science textbooks were published and distributed to schools in the Bosniac-majority areas
of the Federation by four private sector publishers chosen on the basis of competitive procurement (total
contract amounts $445,000). In a second phase, English language training books were distributed in the
Bosniac-majority areas of the Federation, and readers and other educational materials were shared to some
extent across all schools of the Federation.
An OHR led initiative to identify and remove ethnically sensitive or objectionable material from textbooks
and educational materials in the Federation and RS was effectively supported with Interim Fund funding
under the project.
*   Finance, Governance and Administration Study
Given the government's reluctance to use Interim Fund funding for external TA, and the availability of
other funding sources for technical assistance, a decision was made in 1997 to request a PHRD grant to
finance the Education Govemance, Finance and Administration Study that had been originally included
under project financing. Funds allocated for this work were re-allocated to textbook procurement and to
support local TA and training in the areas of textbooks development. The contract for the study was
carried out through a joint venture with the Council of Europe, which had previously undertaken a review
of higher education governance and legislation in 21 CEE and FSU countries. Following a delay based on
the difficulty of collecting data across the 10 cantons and RS, the Education Governance, Finance and
Administration Study was successfully completed in October 1999. This sector work provided the basis
for development of the Education Development Project (FY00) and should help inform preparation of the
SoSAC II (FY02).
3   Project Management
In the Federation, decision making and communications were politically motivated to the end. Despite
several attempts to overhaul management of the Federation PIU, politics and political patronage prevailed
resulting in a large number of unqualified, but ethnically balanced staff. Given the weakness of its
management and staff, the Federation PIU had to be supported heavily by Bank HQ and RM staff and by a
civil works implementation consultant. The consultant's contract was terminated in October 1998 due to
lack of additional funding. With the replacement of the RS PIU Director in 1997, the professionalism of
the RS PIU increased considerably and their funding was implemented efficiently, without undue direct
assistance from the Bank.
3.4 Revised Components:
*   Qualitative Initiative in RS
At the request of the RS Ministry of Education, a pilot teacher training initiative was added to the project in
RS. The Bank was pleased to have the flexibility within the project design to be responsive to this demand
in RS for supporting qualitative improvements in education. The Bank approved a first phase of technical
assistance and training for the introduction of interactive teaching methodologies in developing
experimental schools in the amount of US$98,000. The implementation of this pilot started in October
1999 and was successfully completed at the end of the 1999/2000 school year.
*   Components covered by an Italian TF
An Italian Grant in the amount of US$ 1.5 million was approved in October 1998 and signed in March
1999. An Administrative Agreement with the Italian Government was signed in June 1999, paving the way
to initiate implementation of the grant funding.. The grant was originally requested to support three
initiatives aimed at both social cohesion and improved educational quality: (1) technical assistance, civil
works, equipment, furniture, textbooks and educational materials for the development of 3-4 "mixed"
(Croat-Bosnian, Bosnian-Serb) experimental schools or, alternatively, teacher resource centers in the
- 4 -



Federation and RS. These schools/resource centers were to be focused on improving the quality of teaching
and education materials; (2) design and execution of a quality fund scheme aimed at supporting school
level quality improvements and social cohesion initiatives; and (3) development of a common core
curriculum framework for the Federation. This third objective was blocked by the Croat leadership of the
Federation MOE and Croat-majority canton MOEs. It was decided, therefore, to carry out experiments in
shared curriculum development at the school level, essentially combining parts 1 and 3 of the initial design.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
Quality at entry is rated satisfactory. This rating is based on the consistency of the objectives with
the overall reconstruction program, as well as with the governments' priorities. Since the
signature of the Dayton-Paris Peace Agreement, reconstructing primary schools throughout
Bosnia and Herzegovina has been one of the basic requirements and one of the highest priorities
for the Government of BiH for security, humanitarian and refugee return reasons, as well as for
reasons of improving educational access and quality. The priority program was designed to
address only the most urgent requirements for restoring minimal operations in the sector in a
coherent fashion, starting with those investments which could have an immediate impact and
benefit the largest possible number of school children. The assumption about needs,
implementation arrangements, capacity and priorities were realistic and in line with the situation in
the country.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The overall achievement of the project's objectives -- to improve primary education access and quality by
reconstructing primary schools throughout BiH -- is rated satisfactory.
The flexible project design allowed the Bank to use project funding and co-financing to begin to make the
transition from reconstruction to development-oriented objectives in education.
4.2 Outputs byi componzents:
The School Rehabilitation and Furnishing component funded civil works and equipment for 44 primary
schools throughout BiH. The project significantly exceeded its original target of financing reconstruction
of 25 primary schools.
In the Federation of BiH: 25 primary schools were reconstructed; furniture and equipment were provided to
18 project schools by the Dutch Government, and the Interim Fund credit financed furniture and equipment
for the remaining 7 project schools. In RS: 19 primary schools were reconstructed and furniture and
equipment provided to these schools. A total of 417 classrooms were repaired and furnished through BiH.
18,206 children in the Federation of BiH and 3,040 in RS benefited from the repairs/reconstruction and
provision of furniture. At least 30% of refurbished schools contributed to increased capacity in practical
terms, in that these schools were not usable at all prior to benefiting from this project's reconstruction
support. In the remaining 70% of schools, incremental capacity was increased by restoring unusable
classrooms. Conditions for leaming were significantly improved in all project-supported schools.
The unit cost for reconstruction in the Federation of BiH was about US$102 per square meter or US$243
per pupil on average. This unit cost per m2 was, at average, US$130 less than reconstruction unit cost for
the first Emergency Education Reconstruction Project due to two reasons: first - increased market and
-5 -



number of qualified civil works firms in the Federation of BiH; second - the Federal Ministry of Education
chose to reconstruct bigger (approximately 11-12 classroom schools) but less damaged schools in the
priority areas for return of refugees and displaced persons.
In the RS, the unit cost was significantly higher - US$170 per square meter or US$1,057 per pupil. There
are several reasons for this: the education reconstruction in the RS was initiated two years after it was
initiated in the Federation of BiH and the civil works market was undeveloped; the RS Ministry of
Education chose to reconstruct smaller size rural schools with the higher degree of damage in the priority
areas for return of refugees, but unfortunately return of refugees did not happen in these areas so far. In
some of these rural schools (Miljkovac-Doboj, Velijasnica-Ribnik, Milici-Modrica) less than 20 pupils are
attending classrooms at the moment. The situation in urban schools is somewhat different with higher
number of students per school (Sipovo - 568 students, Novi Grad - 799 students).
Number of Number of Number of             Total     Per pupil Per m2 cost
Entity      schools  classrooms   pupils  surface m2    cost       US$    US$
Federation of BiH      25       282   18,206   43,186  4,415,537.00       243       102
Republika Srpska        19      135    3,040   18,745  3,202,874.85      1,054      170
Total                   44      417   21,246   61,931  7,618,411.85        359      123
Furniture and equipment in the Federation of BiH was mainly financed by Dutch Government through
GEMCO. From the Project funds, furniture and equipment was provided to 7 schools in the Federation of
BiH. The average unit cost of school fumiture and equipment provided from the Project funds was about
US$2,900 per classroom.
In the RS, furniture and equipment for all 19 Project schools was financed from the Credit proceeds. The
average unit cost in the RS was US$1,601 per classroom.
Number of    Number of      Total cost of
Entit,    schools    classrooms   furniture/equipment U P     o
Federation of BiH           7          55           160,178.00              2,912.32
Republika Srpska           19         135           216,138.00              1,601.02
Total                      26         190           376,316.00              1,980.61
Textbooks and Educational Materials
The pilot project involving competitive selection of private sector developed textbooks was completed
successfully. This pilot was developed with the support of International Book Development (IBD) under
Dutch Trust Fund financing. 14 new math and science textbooks were published and distributed to schools
by four private sector publishers chosen on the basis of competitive procurement. Although the textbook
pilot had been originally planed under this project, due to delays in Board presentation, the pilot was
financed from the proceeds of the First Emergency Education Reconstruction Project (total contract
amounts US$445,000) in order to assure timely distribution of textbooks for the 1998/1999 school year.
Feedback from sources at various levels was that the pedagogic and physical quality of these books
represented a significant improvement over existing textbooks.
The second phase of the Bank-supported textbook program was completed by July 2000 following several
- 6 -



set backs. Following replacement of the Croat Deputy Federation Minister of Education in 1998, Croat
representatives in the Federation MOE withdrew for political reasons from a previous agreement to enter
into a joint procurement of two textbooks (computer science and English language training) to be used in
all Federation schools. Book packages were, therefore, evaluated only by the Bosniac representatives of
the Federation. A contract for English language training books, manuals for teachers and audio tapes for
grades 4-8 of primary schools was signed and 125,000 copies of books; 5,000 copies of manuals, and
1,500 tapes were delivered to the schools by June 2000. No responsive bids were received for computer
science books, and given insufficient time to re-bid, this procurement was canceled. Savings from
cancellation of the computer science textbooks procurement were re-oriented to reading materials, which
were shared, to some extent across the Bosniac and Croat-majority areas of the Federation. The Croats also
rejected a proposal for shared grammars, and this potential procurement was canceled when the Bank
declined to finance Bosniac language only grammars (further contributing to separation between the two
education systems in the
Federation). This failure to cooperate within the Federation has left the Croat-majority areas using
language books from Croatia and Bosniac-majority areas using outdated books or, alternatively, pursuing
other sources of financing for books that will, if they are successful, put a high degree of focus on language
differentiation and ethnic separation in the Federation.
Savings from cancellation of the textbook procurement were re-allocated to reading materials and
geographical maps and atlases, which were shared to some extent across the Federation of BiH. 77 titles or
122,318 copies of supplemental readers were procured, as well as 8,000 copies of geographical atlas and
5,000 maps.
An OHR led initiative to identify and remove ethnically sensitive or objectionable material from national
subjects' textbooks and educational materials in the Federation of BiH and RS has been supported with
Interim Fund funding under the Project. Following some delays, this initiative has met with some guarded
success, although OHR is providing constant follow up and supervision.
Finance, Governance and Administration Study
The Education Govemance, Finance and Administration Study -- carried out through a unique joint venture
between the World Bank and the Council of Europe -- was completed and presented at a public forum early
in fiscal year 2000. In addition, the participatory process used for the study was particularly successful in
helping develop public support for the study's findings and conclusions. An international donor partnership
(WB, Council of Europe, European Commission, UNESCO, Office of the High Representative) helped
bring Serbs, Croats and Bosniacs together in BiH to focus attention on social cohesion issues in education
and develop consensus for needed governance changes. As a result, World Bank and European Union
funding is currently supporting the establishment of a shared Standards and Assessment Agency for BiH,
as well as a shared Coordinating Board for Higher Education. These are the first examples of common
inter-ethnic institutions in education following the war. In addition, World Bank funding under its
Education Development Project is supporting development of a common education management
information system and a jointly-managed Quality Fund for primary education. All of these initiatives were
developed and promoted under the study initiative.
Qualitative Initiative in the RS
At the request of the RS Minister of Education, the Bank agreed to finance a small amount of technical
assistance and training aimed at developing "experimental schools" for introducing interactive teaching
methodologies.
-7-



During project implementation, the Ministry of Education in the RS developed and began to set in motion
an ambitious if somewhat under-analysed program of education reforms. These reforms cover a range of
issues and initiatives in the areas of curriculum, textbooks, pupil admissions and modernization of teaching
methods. The "experimental schools" project (a term coined by the Ministry of Education) is one strand of
these reforms and focuses on improving teaching practice. At the heart of the "experimental schools"
project is the modernization of teaching methods in the RS. Its chosen method for achieving this aim was
to run a series of teacher conferences and to publish a serious of textbooks of "interactive learning" for
teachers.
There are six schools in the project, all of them primary schools. The Ministry chose the schools in late
1998. The main selection criteria included the geographical spread of the schools across the RS and the
known commitment of the head teachers to modernization.
The "experimental schools" were to be the pilot schools of the Ministry of Education's reform and
modernization agenda. The Ministry of Education in RS intends to extend the reforms introduced in these
six schools into all RS schools by 2006.
A first phase of technical assistance and training for the piloted introduction of interactive teaching
methodologies in RS was completed. The Government's consultant produced an evaluation which identified
strengths and weaknesses of the pilot initiative and included a serious recommendations for follow up. RS
authorities have disseminated the report and a British VSO is currently assigned to follow up in the pilot
schools.
Italian co-financing
Italian co-financing, approved late in the second year of project implementation, is supporting the transition
from reconstruction to qualitative improvements in the education system. The closing date of the Italian
Grant is October 31, 2001. As the implementation of this grant is not yet complete, it is too early to fully
assess its impact, although indications thus far are generally positive. Its implementation will continue
under the Education Development Project, and it will be managed by the Federation and RS Project
Coordination Units for that project. This initiative supports two major activities:
* Experimental schools - The objective of this component is to demonstrate the conditions required for
delivery of effective and sustainable primary education in mixed catchment areas throughout BiH.
Priority is given to demonstrating improvement in three principal program areas: (1) effective teaching
and supervision of teaching; (2) development and use of modem instructional materials suitable for use
throughout BiH; and (3) expanded community involvement in school improvement. A US$700,000
technical assistance contract was signed with the University of Ulster School of Education in Northern
Ireland (UK) to support (a) mixed experimental schools in the Zenica-Doboj Canton, (b) a joint
Teacher Resource Center in Brcko, and (c) mutual understanding programs which have been combined
with the ongoing experimental school work in the RS. The contract is the first example of a jointly
signed Federation/RS contract in education and one of the only such cooperative Federation/RS
contracts to date. (The Education Development Project (FY00) was, as a result, designed almost
exclusively around the use of such shared contracts). This Bosnia/Northem Ireland cooperation is a
watershed undertaking in terms of post-conflict resolution partnerships which will have a positive
impact on enhanced cooperation and quality improvements in education, as well as attract significant
positive intemational interest.
-8 -



*   The Quality Fund Grant Program - This component, also being financed by the Italian Government,
is progressing satisfactorily with political support across BiH. The three sides have nominated their
respective representatives to the Evaluation Board of the Quality Fund, to evaluate and approve
proposals from the two pilot areas (Herzegovina-Neretva Canton and Banja Luka Region).
International technical assistance has supported a team of three local experts to develop manuals and
guidelines for preparation, evaluation and supervision of proposals. These manuals were approved by
a larger group of educators (21 experts), and have been validated at the school level.
4.3 Net Present ValueliEconomic rate of return.
Not applicable.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable.
4.5 Institutional development inmpact:
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Implementation of the Second Emergency Education Reconstruction project was generally satisfactory,
despite the fact that project design was carried out in a chaotic post-conflict environment. Following the
end of hostilities, the education system was re-built at an ambitious pace and - while not achieving levels of
funding and organization that existed prior to the war - teaching and learning at all levels is now being
carried out at minimally acceptable standards in most areas of BiH. However, the pace of reconstruction,
the multitude of donor funding opportunities, and the general chaos of post-conflict Bosnia tended to
distract all actors in education -- government, stakeholders, donors, etc. -- from strategic planning and from
re-thinking structures and approaches in the context of the education system's role in economic transition.
As a result, fundamental policy and strategic issues - such as inadequate methodological training of
teachers, occupational specific training at the secondary level, and the fragmented higher education system
- have not been adequately addressed to date.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Project implementation took place in the context of a continuing political and nationalistic struggle between
the three constituent groups in BiH that is particularly virulent in the education sector for reasons of
national language and culture, as well as for reasons of political patronage. This struggle has numerous
negative implications in education. A rational allocation of various functions, such as assigning
performance evaluation and quality assurance to the central level, is not currently possible due to the desire
to maintain educational separation within constituent groups. To further complicate matters, nationalistic
efforts to differentiate the common language of BiH into three separate languages has become an excuse for
lack of cooperation in developing new curricula, textbooks and educational materials. This politically
forced separation in education is detrimental in terms of long term nation-building efforts in BiH, the need
for a rational distribution of functions, and the efficient use of resources (class size, facilities utilization and
procuring books and other educational materials, etc.) The lack of cooperation is also a dis-incentive for
funding agencies which would like to fund educational reforms, but are reluctant to do so in the context of
efforts to re-enforce segregation in the schools.
Delays rooted in political or ethnic problems did occur over the course of implementation -- such as
decision making regarding grammar textbooks as well as procurement of other shared textbooks -- but did
-9-



not significantly delay the project or affect the achievement of objectives.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agenev corntrol:
Project management has been adequate for purposes of this straight forward project. In the Federation,
decision making and communication was often politically-motivated, causing the Bank to devote significant
supervision resources in order to maintain momentum. The RS PIU had difficulties during the early
months of project execution, mostly attributable to the appointment of unqualified political appointees to
the RS Project Implementation Unit. However, after removal of the original PIU Director and his
replacement with competent staff, the RS PIU -- given no political divisions with the PCU as in the
Federation -- managed all aspects of project implementation efficiently and effectively throughout the entire
period of implementation.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
As previously stated, the average investment per school reconstructed tended to be less than originally
anticipated in both the Federation and RS, resulting in a greater number of schools benefiting from project
financing than had originally been programmed. The cost per school reflected both lower than expected
unit costs, as well as the final selection of schools that required less extensive reconstruction than in the
first project. Audits of the project's financial statements and procurement and disbursement were issued
without qualification.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The project was conceived and implemented as an emergency reconstruction project. As such, it dealt
primarily with physical reconstruction activities. The key question of sustainability for the investments
supported under the project was whether the responsible authorities would have the recourses necessary to
operate the project schools effectively in the future. In particular, there was a question of whether or not
they would be able to attract and retain qualified teachers, and whether or not they would have the budgets
necessary to pay for utilities, replenishment of educational materials, and school maintenance.
Although there are exceptions, the physical condition of primary schools within the jurisdiction of the
canton ministries of education is generally good, 75% of them having been reconstructed or refurbished
since the war. This status is attributed mainly to better economic progress and aid provided by
intemational donors. In some cases, the new schools provide accommodation for teaching which is
comparable with or better than those found in most western European countries, where such subsidies have
been curtailed. In comparison, the physical condition of the schools in the Republika Srpska is less
satisfactory, with pupils being taught in generally poorer physical conditions and in overcrowded
classrooms, although the economic situation in RS has been improving somewhat recently. Overall,
however, the likelihood that schools will be staffed and maintained and that the education system will
continue to deliver a minimally acceptable level of education quality is good. As over 90% of project
funding was for school reconstruction and equipping, the overall project is given a satisfactory
sustainability rating. Progress on governance and inter-constituent group cooperation issues have,
however, been less satisfactory.
The delegation of responsibilities for education financing and governing to the cantons in the Federation of
BiH has proven to be a particular constraint to efficient public sector management and educational reform.
Canton level ministries of education currently function as mini-centralized bureaucracies which suffer both
the costs of over-centralization and the dis-economies of scale normally associated with decentralization.
Significant disparities in per student spending at all levels have been identified across the 1 1 jurisdictions
responsible for education in BiH, with the highest spending areas spending more than twice as much per
- 10-



student at all levels than the lowest spending areas. This disparity is predominantly, but not exclusively
explained by differences in revenue collection per capita. Because public revenue is collected and allocated
to education within the 11 jurisdictions (as mandated under the Dayton Accords), little can be done to
promote equalization across areas without agreement from each of the jurisdictions to transfer funding up
to the Entity level or to assign Federal revenue for education. Although neither of these solutions was
politically feasible in BiH during the project implementation period, future Bank-supported adjustment
lending may be expected to address these important education finance issues. Funding equalization should,
however, not be justified solely on an equitable spending mandate, but in the context of equity goals in
education outcomes. Until consistent system and student performance information exists in BiH, there is
little justification to argue for funding re-allocations on the basis of bringing children in disadvantaged
areas up to acceptable performance standards. Addressing inequities in education outcomes and the
funding inequities that may or may not be a factor in those achievement inequities can only be addressed
once consistent information on performance is available. The new Education Development Project is
helping to provide such performance information in the context of a shared-Entity Standards and
Assessment Agency. While the RS Ministry of Education retains responsibility for the prescribed quality
control functions of a central ministry, the need to consider decentralization reforms which push decision
making authority closer to the service providers applies equally in RS.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
- 11 -



7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.] Lending:
The Bank's performance in the lending phase is rated as satisfactory. The Bank responded very quickly to
the Borrower's request to proceed immediately with the Second Emergency Education Reconstruction
Project aimed largely at filling the financial gap in the first project and supporting school reconstruction in
Republika Srpska.
7.2 Supervision:
The Bank's supervision performance is rated as satisfactory. Much of the implementation success achieved
under the project can be attributed to the adequate supervision funding for the project, which allowed the
Bank to deal in a more effective and timely manner with the dysfunctionality of decision making in the
Federation, as well as deal with two separate Entities.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall, the Bank's performance can be rated as satisfactory. The project's reconstruction objectives were
met, and the project team was allowed and encouraged to devote time and resources to the less tangible and
more challenging inter-constituent group cooperation issues. The project served as a vehicle for constituent
group communication and cooperation, but the dysfunctionality of the Federation of BiH (in terms of
parallel, ethnic-based institutions) was never overcome. The project and, in particular, the education
governance and finance study partnership with Council of Europe also served as a vehicle for the Bank
team to leverage additional financing for the sector and promote donor coordination and education strategy
development. The aid coordination effort in education in BiH among the principal donors and advisors
(OHR, UNESCO, UNICEF, EC, World Bank) was an example of best practice for the region, although
such intensive cooperation was certainly facilitated by the high level of resources and attention provided to
BiH by the international community, which is probably not replicable elsewhere.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Borrower performance during preparation is rated satisfactory, particularly given the chaotic post-conflict
situation during which reliable information was scarce and strategic planning was difficult.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
Given the political context of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Government implementation performance was
satisfactory. In terms of the reconstruction goals, the implementation units were delegated the authority to
implement the projects well and in a timely manner. Schools were reconstructed and textbooks and
educational materials were delivered to schools in a timely manner, mostly in the Bosniac-controlled areas
of the Federation. Continuing political conflict between the three constituent groups, however, impeded
long term development and capacity building goals under the project because the Bank and others donors
were cautious of working with and supporting each constituent group separately at the risk of re-inforcing
and legitimizing their desire to develop three separate education systems within BiH. The willingness of all
three groups to cooperate on various education goals has increased dramatically under the new Education
Development Project.
7.6 Implenmenting Agency:
The performance of the Federation PIU was satisfactory in terms of civil works and textbook procurement
and managing project funding. However, the dysfunctional nature of the Federation -- particularly in the
- 12-



area of education governance -- and the fact that Croat authorities operated a "parallel" PIU in Mostar
during the life of the project, caused delays and mis-communications and generally led to an inefficient
management of staff time and energies. During the time period 1997-2000, this dysfunction was probably
not preventable in the Federation of BiH. While the tendency to insist on "parallel" structures continues to
impede initial implementation of the Education Development Project, the outlook for better cooperation
among the three groups is improving. Such cooperation is the center piece of this new project which
focuses on shared initiatives and building shared institutions. In contrast, implementation performance in
the RS PIU during the project was highly satisfactory, reflecting the PIU's unified nature and the
professionalism of its staff.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The overall Borrower performance is considered satisfactory in the context of the project's reconstruction
goals.
8. Lessons Learned
Rapid reconstruction has medium term cost in terms of delayed policy and institutional reform. The
ongoing focus on reconstruction and the unresolved uncertainty about government roles created under
Dayton is hampering the restoration of an efficient and sustainable education system. It is also delaying
key decisions about needed reforms in the structure, orientation, management, and financing of secondary
and higher education.
Better communication and coordination among donors and different levels of government is essential
within the Federation and between Entities. Mechanisms to strengthen communications among all parties -
particularly in the areas of shared educational standards, curriculum and educational materials -- deserve
priority attention. However, compromises on the part of donors will be necessary in view of significant
preferences on the part of beneficiaries (students, teachers, parents, etc. to differentiate language
throughout BiH).
Reconstruction in many areas cannot proceed effectively without progress in addressing key policy
issues in the sector. Moving ahead on reconstruction in secondary and higher education will require policy
decisions soon on the goals and content of these programs. For example, further investment to support or
complete reconstruction of secondary education in BiH should be contingent on development of a strategy
to reform the secondary system -- which was oriented to producing occupationally trained labor for the old
command economy -- and make it more compatible with the needs of a market economy. In higher
education, investments should be contingent on agreement to adopt a mechanism for financing higher
education centrally and on agreement to re-structure the fragmented, faculty-dominated management
structures of the universities.
Finally, it will take time before parties to the conflict accept the role education must play in
promoting reconciliation. Although there are some promising initiatives in communication within the
Federation and between the Federation and RS, these are ad hoc ventures at the moment. Continuing
sensitivities on the language issue suggest that progress will be slow and uneven.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Borrower's ICR attached as Annex 8 - (at the end of Annex 7).
Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relation - reviewed the Draft ICR and had no additional
- 13 -



comments.
(b) Cofinanciers:
Government of Italy - reviewed the Draft ICR and had no additional comments.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
10. Additional Information
- 14 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome / Impact Indicators:
_ ndjcat~wfldabIx                  Pro5~ctd in   OMP A_tUaVLatet Estimat
1. Primary schools are refurbished and  In the Federation, 25 primary schools were  same
refumished by October 1999.           reconstructed. Fumiture and equipment
were provided to 18 project schools by the
Dutch Govemment. The Project financed
fumiture and equipment for the remaining 7
project schools.
In RS, 19 primary schools were
reconstructed and project funds were used
to finance fumiture and equipment.
2. Printing and distribution of 12 textbooks is Federation schools, both Bosniac and Croat, same
completed by October 1999.            received 77 titles of readers, many of them
shared titles. English language textbooks
were also procured and distributed for the
Bosniac areas of the Federation.
1. Carry out by November 30, 1998 an  Completed in October 1999.            same
Education Finance and Administration Study
under terms of reference satisfactory to the
Association.
2. Provide to the Association for comment  Completed in October 1999.       same
by December 1998 the findings and
recommendations of the Education Finance
and Administration Study.
3. Implement the recommendations of the   The Education Development Project (FY00)  same
Study, as discussed and agreed with the    incorporates the major recommendations of
Association.                          the Study. The Study should also provide
the basis for including education in SoSAC
I.
Output Indicators:
InA  dlc 1atuiM* -           ----   Jb st PSR                      i''-' '    ^ c    ' t ~stlm*:
End of project
- 15 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Pro ect Cost by Com onent (in US$ million e uivalent)
School Rehabilitafion and Furnishing                  9.30           8.00            86
Books and lEducational Materials                      0.80            1.43          178
Education Finance and Administration Study            0.50            0.00
Project Implementation                                0.40            0.72           180
Qualitative Initiative in RS                          0.00            0.40           40
Total Baseline Cost                                  11.00           10.55
Total Project Costs             11.00           10.55
Total Financing Required              11.00          10.55
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
1. Works                     0.00          3.90         4.20          0.00         8.10
_   _       l   ~~~~~(0.00)  _ (3.90)    _4.20)          (0.00)       (8.10)
2. Goods                     0.00          1.30          0.50         0.00         1.80
(0.00)       (1.30)       (0.50)        (0.00)       (1.80)
3. Services                  0.00          0.00          0.70         0.00         0.70
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.70)        (0.00)       (0.70)
4. Recurrent Costs           0.00          0.00          0.40         0.00         0.40
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.40)        (0.00)       (0.40)
5. Miscellaneous             0.00          0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous             0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)  _   (0.00)
Total                      0.00          5.20         5.80         0.00         11.00
(0.00)       (5.20)       (5.80)        (0.00)       (11.00)
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (ActuallLatest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
1. Works                     0.00          7.60                       0.00         7.60
(0.00)       (7.60)         ()(0.00)                 (7.60)
2. Goods                     0.43          1.40          l.00         0.00         2.83
(0.43)       (1.40)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (1.83)
3. Services                  0.00          0.00          1.20         0.00         1.20
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.42)        (0.00)       (0.42)
-16 -



4. Recurrent Costs               0.00           0.00           0.71           0.00           0.71
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.70)         (0.00)        (0.70)
5. Miscellaneous                 0.00           0.00           1.21           0.00           1.21
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                 0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)
Total                         0.43            9.00          4.12           0.00           13.55
(0.43)         (9.00)         (1. 12)        (0.00)        (10.55)
' Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.
D Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to
(i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financin  by Com  onent (in US$ million e uivalent)
..____         i;s -at e9   X    $|t' ;;;  .............................Of. iAppraisal
:  = .~ ._._-._=.__ __  ..     __               _____..Govt   CO_,
School Rehabilitation and  9.30                          8.00                 1.00     86.0   0.0    0.0
Furnishing
Books and Educational     0.80                           1.43                          178.8   0.0    0.0
Materials
Education Finance and     0.50                                                0.50     0.0    0.0    0.0
Administration Study
Project Implementation    0.40                           0.72                 0.10    180.0   0.0    0.0
Qualitative Initiative in RS                             0.40                          0.0    0.0    0.0
Experimental School                                                           0.90     0.0    0.0    0.0
School Grant Pilot                                                            0.50     0.0    0.0    0.0
- 17-



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
Not Applicable.
- 18 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle               No. of Persons and Specialty               Performance Rating
(e.g 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)     Implementation      Development
Month/Year    Count        Specialty                        PTogress          Objecive
Identification/Preparation
08/5-15/1996                   4    1 Task Manager/Operations            S                  S
Officer, I Education Economist,
I Operations Officer, I Team
Assistant
Appraisal/Negotiation
10/15-23/1996                 5    I Task Manager/Operations
Officer, I Education
Economist, 1 Operations
Officer, I Project Officer,
1 Team Assistant
01/21-22/1997                  5   Task Manager/Operations               S                  S
Officer, Operations Officer,
Project Officer, Lawyer, Team
Assistant
Supervision
09/8-12/1997                   5   1 Task Manager/Operations             S                  S
Officer, 1 Education
Economist, 1 Operation
Officer, 1 Project Officer, I
Team Assistant
04/14/24/1998                  5   1 Task Manager/Operations             S                 U
Officer, 1 Operations Officer, 1
Project Officer, 1 Consultant, 1
Team Assistant
08/27-09/09/1998               4   1 Task Manager/Operations             S                  S
Officer, 1 Project Officer, I
Consultant, I Team Assistant
10/4-10/1998                   3   1 Operations Officer, 1 Project       S                 S
Officer, 1 Team Assistant
11/8-14/1998                   3   1 Operations Officer, 1 Project       S                 S
Officer, 1 Team Assistant
01/18-30/1999                  4   1 Task Manager/Operations             S                  S
Officer, 1 Operations Officer, I
Project Officer, iTeam Assistant
03/7-31/1999                   4   1 Task Manager/Operations             S                  S
Officer, 1 Operations Officer, I
Project Officer, lTeam Assistant
05/3-29/1999                   4   1 Task Manager/Operations             S                  S
Officer, I Operations Officer, I
Project Officer, iTeam Assistant
09/20-30/1999                  4   1 Task Manager/Operations             S                  S
Officer, 1 Operations Officer, I
Project Officer, lTeam Assistant
- 19 -



11/22-12/10/1999               3   1 Task Manager/Operations              S                  S
Officer,l Project Officer, I Team
Assistant
ICR
06/18-22/2000                  2    1 Operations Officer,                 S                  S
1 Project Officer
(b) Staff
Stage of Project Cycle                     ActuaVLatest Estimnate
No. Staff weeks               US$ (,000)
Identification/Preparation                24.7                          39.5
Appraisal/Negotiation                     31.8                          89.3
Supervision                              104.4                         236.5
ICR                                         14                          29.1
Total                                     174.9                        394.4
- 20 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
O Macro policies                         O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
O Sector Policies                        O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
O Physical                               * H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
O Financial                              O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
O Institutional Development              O H  O SUO M  0 N  0 NA
LII Environmental                        OH  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Social
O Poverty Reduction                O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
E Gender                           OH OSUOM ON ONA
O Other (Please specify)           O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
0 Private sector development             0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
O Public sector management               0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
O Other (Please specify)                 OH  OSUOM  ON  O NA
- 21 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bankperformance                                   Rating
 Lending                                             OHS OS OU OHU
O Supervision                                         OHS    0s OU  OHU
a Overall                                             OHS OS 0 U O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                               Rating
O Preparation                                         OHS OS  O u O HU
0 Government implementation performance               O HS 0 S  0  U  0 HU
0 Implementation agency performance                   OHS OS   0  U  O HU
0 Overall                                             OHS OS 0 U O HU
- 22 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Bosnia and Herzegovina: Second Emergency Education Reconstruction Project; Technical Annex; Report
Number T-7028-BiH; June 6, 1997
Bosnia and Herzegovina: Second Emergency Education Reconstruction Project; Memorandum and
Recommendation of the President; Report Number P-7028-BiH; June 6, 1997
Bosnia and Herzegovina: Second Emergency Education Reconstruction Project; Development Credit
Agreement (Cr. N035-0 BOS); September 12, 1997
World Bank Appraisal and Negotiations Aide Memoires: October 1996, December 1996, January 1997
Supervision Documents:
World Bank Project Status Reports, Supervision Mission Aide Memoires: September 1997, April 1998,
August 1998, October 1998, November 1998, January 1999, March 1999, May 1999, September 1999,
December 1999.
Audit Report on the Project Financial Statements for the year 1999;
PriceWaterhouseCoopers
Audit Report on the Project Financial Statements for the year 1998;
PriceWaterhouseCoopers
- 23 -



Annex 8. Borrower Contribution to the ICR
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
SECOND EMERGENCY EDUCATION RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT CREDIT (0350BOS) AGREEMENTS (IDA II)
APPENDIX B 1 *)
BORROWER CONTRIBUTION TO THE IDA
PREPARED BY THE
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION UNITS/PIU - EDUCATION / MINISTRY OF EDUCATION,
SCIENCE, CULTURE AND SPORTS OF THE FEDERATION OF BOSNIA AND
HERZEGOVINA
Sarajevo, July, 2000
- 24 -



*) World Bank Mission in B&H has to enclose Appendix B2 related to the
Part of the Project for Republika Srpska
- 25 -



Project Objectives World Bank Document - Memorandum and Recommendation of the
President of the IDA ... For An Emergency Education Reconstruction Project, April 22, 1996.
Page 5. The primary objective of the Emergency Education Reconstruction Project (EERP or
Project) is to help continuing of restore formation classroom conditions which permit effective
teaching and learning - particularly, in primary schooling. A secondary objective is to help
providing minimum of school furniture for the schools which are already reconstructed and
renewed. And the third objective is to help addendum school libraries with necessary textbooks,
readers, school educational materials.
Project Description Same as above. Page 5 and 6. The Project would promote these objectives
by supporting the components described below:
a.    Primary School Rehabilitation.
This component would finance (i) the refurbishment of primary schools which can be
made secure and weatherproof which have been selected by cantonal authorities as
priorities for rehabilitation, and (ii) the construction of several primary schools in
areas with no alternative school capacity.
b.    Primary School Furniture
Thirteen schools were equipped through the Grant of Kingdom of Netherlands and six
of them out of the part of funds planned for civil works.
c.    Books and Educational Materials. This component would finance the printing and
distribution some of textbooks, geographical charts and maps, transparencies of natural sciences
and readers for primary and secondary schools in Croatian and Bosnian language.
d.    Capacity Building and Project Implementation. In the scope of the II EERP PIU was
established in Banja Luka and they implemented 34 % of the approved loan.
e.    Project Preparation for the III EDP, EMIS and experimental schools. FPIU helped in
preparatory works in accordance to the instruction from the Mission of the WB.
Financing Plan Summary
IDA Credit                     US$ 6.9 Million
Dutch Government               US$ 1.0 Million
Italian Grant                  US$ 1.0 Million
Total                          US$ 8.9 Million
ASSESSMENT and EVALUATION - Federation
Background. II EERP continued implementation of credits in the same manner as during the I
EERP.
- 26 -



Since, regarding school furniture the Government of Netherlands provided insufficient funds for
that purpose, part of the loan was allocated to furnish all repaired schools.
During the II EERP we also tried to print at least one joint textbook for the whole of B&H
territory. Aided with the Italian Grant and during the preparation process of III EDP certain
suitable schools with mixed teachers and students, placed on the entity lines were looked for, in
order to be nominated as so called "experimental schools" that would have the role of
reconciliation of population in respective areas.
Suitability of the Project's Objectives
Primary School Rehabilitation
The World Bank, through its credit and the Italian Grant, invested over 8 Million DEM in the
Federation in 24 primary schools rehabilitation, and construction of two new schools as replacing
buildings for completely destroyed ones. (See attached list and amount per school)
Final result is that 16,876 students are back in the schools that they could not use it before prior
to this project or which they could have used but only under very difficult conditions. Beyond the
repairs of the physical infrastructure the investment in furniture, books and other learning
materials was vital and equally important part of the project objectives.
Furniture and school equipment
The World Bank financed this component out of the Dutch Government through the GEMCO.
Positive experience from the I EERP was successfully used during the II EERP. This time the
quality of students desks provided by the Dutch was improved.
Final result is that 256 classrooms were equipped including accessory rooms.
Textbooks and educafion materials
As it happened during the I EERP so it had happened also during the II EERP - the lack of
understanding of Federal partners as well as the Ministry of Education in RS was present.
So, only the Bosniaks wanted and needed the use this project for purchase of necessary
textbooks, school material and readers. The World Bank for this sort of project engaged best
experts from the IBD, London (Henderson and Hunt) that held seminar for publishing houses and
in cooperation with PIU - Education prepared tender documents, based on which this time
FMOE become purchaser of textbooks, school materials and readers.
Through this way the transition of publishing business onto the qualified publishers in B&H
commenced. In the mean time the international community via OHR and out of this project
financed the work of expert teams on the overall textbooks revision in B&H, regarding removal
of offensive contents.
Unfortunately, part of enormous engagement of the PIU - Education, international community,
OHR and the World Bank the realizing the goal to have any of textbooks to be used in complete
- 27 -



B&H was unsuccessful due to political reasons.
Adequacy of the Project Design and Components
For the civil works component of the project it was envisioned that the Ministry of Education
would engage International Management Group (IMG), supported on a grant basis by UNDP, in
carrying out this task partially.
For four schools included later on the list IMG did not prepare project documents, because
UNDP stopped financing IMG activities. For one of the school project document was ordered by
the Design company from Zenica that was selected through biding. For the remaining three
schools already existing documents supplied by the municipality were used.
Firstly, the component of furniture and school equipment was foreseen to be funded by Dutch
Government Grant. Because of the luck of the fund it has been decided to allocate part of the
funds foreseen for the civil works to cover only minimum of needs.
Following the agreement reached during the implementation of the I EERP special needs for the
books and educational materials were provided in the scope of the funds available for this
category of the Credit. Although de facto the need for joint textbooks has existed, this project
could not achieve the mutual agreement of all respective partners.
There is still no central repository of information that gives the exact status on all schools in
B&H. Small amount was allocated out of II EERP that was used for funding EMIS Pilot project
in Tuzla Canton.
Overall Quality and Speed of Project Implementation
Civil Works. As a result the MOE already possessed the staff II EERP could start immediately
after the contract signing. Related to the I EERP and according to the documents signed
procedures NCB and SNCB were used in the II EERP.
In order to provide qualified contractors biding was opened for pre-qualification of contractors
and only those qualified ones were invited.
1. The PIU project engineer visited the site for at least the first and last payments and physically
inspected the works for quality and completeness. For supervision local professional companies
were selected through biding.
Delays related with some of the facilities occurred due to extremely hard winter and afterwards
increased scope of works (for instance Dzepi and Brijesnica).
2. Thanks to the consolidation on the work market many of the works were less expensive than
during the previous project, so more schools were finished than expected.
As originally planned, IMG provided assessments (specifications and cost estimates) for the
physical reconstruction of schools. Later on it came out the fact that so many assessments were
not needed, so it was decided to make typical designs for two, four and six classroom schools and
executive designs for two and four classroom schools.
As mentioned above category furniture and school equipment was funded by Dutch
- 28 -



Government Grant and by part of the fund foreseen for the civil works to cover the needs.
Modified SNCB procedures were followed for purchase of the school furniture.
Textbooks. The World Bank and FMOE used experiences from the I EERP and published
textbooks and other educational materials within this project using the public biding process.
The World Bank experts and their consultants put an enormous effort to achieve consensus about
at least of one textbook to be published for the use in all schools throughout entire Bosnia and
Herzegovina. But, it was not achieved.
Summary Information and Administration
Civil works and school equipping. Prior to starting this project, the PIU proposed and World
Bank agreed to a priority list of 259 schools for reconstruction. These 28 schools were repaired
using I EERP amount of US$ 7,245,343 from World Bank Trust Funds and IDA credits.
During the II EERP 25 schools were repaired for the amount of US$ 4,415,537. apart from the II
EERP encompassed school furniture, equipment, textbooks, readers and school materials for the
amount of US$ 1,508,111 using IDA credit.
Procedure applied for civil works and textbooks were standard SNCB and NCB during the II
EERP. For furniture was used a simplified SNCB. For each of the contract no objection of the
World Bank was provided. The Mission was continuously informed about all the steps of
pre-contracted activities.
Books and Educational Materials. As it was stressed in the I EERP report overall survey
showed that about 450 titles (approx. 8 mill. books) were required within the approximate value
of US$ 15 mill. During the war via the I EERP only 78 titles of which 1,4 mill. copies were
purchased, valued approx. US$ 1,7 mill., which was supported by the World Bank with SDR
724,900. From the II EERP was purchased 126 titles (approx. 273,397 copies) valued US$ 1,34
mill. (that includes 5 textbooks, 5 teachers notebooks of English for Primary schools, 99 readers,
6 geographic maps of continents and B&H and 1 Atlas for both primary and secondary schools).
As mentioned above this category has been highly politicized and also de facto the need for joint
textbooks has existed, this project could not achieved the mutual agreement of all respective
partners.
This problem of reaching consensus was the only reason for extension of the project
implementation.
Finance. The same problem, as it was during the I EERP, is the internal government procedures
for signing withdrawal applications - they are very cumbersome and this has slowed down
payments to contractors remained.
The local banks were consolidated in the mean time so the cash flow was not problem any more.
Reallocation of Project Funds. As a result of redefining priorities, the PIU and Minister of
Education (in agreement with the World Bank) reallocated fund credit 4,890,000 SDR to better
- 29 -



meet the needs of the education sector. The table below shows the changes.
CATEGORIES                  Original Allocation       Approved              Final
(SDR)              reallocation          (SDR)
(SDR)
Civil Works                           3,200,000            2,900,000          3,234,735
Goods                                 1,040,000            1,447,000          1,098,636
Consult Service & Train                 350,000             203,000            210,515
Increment Op Costs                      210,000             340,000            346,114
Unallocated                              90,000
TOTAL                                 4,890,000            4,890,000          4,890,000
Key Lessons learned:
I )    In the civil works part of the project we have success in preserving the number of facilities
from further decay thanks to understanding of the World Bank, that gave up from standard
procedure according which gyms were not be considered for repair. Although gyms were not
completely repaired, contract calculation including winterizing this part of the school (roof and
facade).
2)    For the success and speed of execution of contracted civil works pre-biding meeting in
situ of all bidders, designers and PIU architects appeared to be very useful one.
3)    Reconstruction of schools without furnishing does not lead to success, because besides the
building students have to have at least desks, chairs and blackboards.
4)   In case that post-war project is being implemented by "former war enemies", which is the
case in B&H, the World Bank has opportunity through the usage of funds to impose cooperation
within the envisaged project amongst the parties. That means that the usage of funds should be
restricted to malevolent partner of the Borrower.
- 30 -



REPUBLIC OF SRPSKA
MINISTR Y OF ED UCA TION
Project Implementation Unit
Banja Luka
REPORT ON FINALIZATION OF THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE NAMED
"SECOND EMERGENCY ED UCA TION RECONSTR UCTION PROJECT"
- 31 -



Banja Luka, June 30, 2000.
- 32 -



CONTENT
1. CREDIT MEANS AND CREDITING CONDITIONS
3
2. PROJECT BACKGROUND
3
3. PROJECT TASKS
4
4. DESCRIPTION OF THE SECOND PROJECT
4
5. REALISATION OF THE PROJECT
5
6. CONCLUSIONS
6
- 33 -






1. CREDIT MEANS AND CREDITING CONDITIONS
Project name:          Second Emergency Education Reconstruction Project - EERP-II
Credit name and number:  IDA credit No. 0350
Credit amount:         SDR 2.8 10.000
Date of signing:        12.09.1997.
Date of effectiveness:  25.09.1997.
Closing date:          30.06.2000.
First repayment date:   15.10.2007.
Last repayment date:    15.04.2032.
2. PROJECT BACKGROUND
The education system in Republic of Srpska is organised on three levels:
First level of education presents primary education, which is legal obligation of whole
population. Before the war was ensured a high scope of children with this kind of education
(almost 100%), and during the war (except in areas with war activities) was retained so high
scope of children. The primary education lasts for eight years, and the students attending the
classes in 192 primary schools. The number of students from I to VIII grade in the year 1997. was
131.684.
Second level of education presents secondary education. On this level exist three types of
schools: gymnasiums, three- and four- years specialists' schools. According to data from year
1997., the number of students was 54.757, and the classes were attended in 92 secondary schools.
The secondary education is not compulsory.
Third level of education presents high education. On the level of high education work 27
institutions of the faculties and high schools. The total number of students in 1998. was 14.679.
After war in BiH, in Republic of Srpska one approached to the review of school buildings and
found out three levels of damage as follow:
-    burned, crushed or destroyed school buildings - 5%;
-    buildings damaged during the war (by bombing or war activities) - 30%;
-    buildings damaged because of army of refugee stay - 40%.
From such conditions have raised two kinds of needs:
a)   Sanitation and reconstruction of buildings, and
b)   Construction of new buildings.
The sanitation and reconstruction are referring to the buildings damaged by bombing or war
actions, as well as buildings damaged by military or refugee stay. The burned, crushed or
destroyed school buildings can be compensated only with new school buildings. The impact, on
the need for constructing of new school building, had also the migration of the population because
of war actions. All of that presented big load for Republic of Srpska. Such thing will be big load
- 35 -



even for developed countries, not to mention a state which, on the beginning of 1997., had
operative only 15% of industrial capacities.
The PIU - education made, after review of conditions of school buildings, a rank-list of the
schools for reconstruction. From that list, large numbers of schools were reconstructed by the
International organisations, which, through their offices in BiH, implemented donor means. The
PIU formed, with WB agreement, a list of schools for reconstruction as follows:
1.   OS " Vuk Karadzic" Kravica, Bratunac;
2.   OS " Nemanja Vlatkovic" Sipovo;
3.   OS " Petar Kocic" Kopljevici, Mrkonjic Grad;
4.   OS " 2. osnovna Skola" Grcica-Dizdarusa, Brcko;
5.   OS " Sveti Sava" Milosevac, Modrica;
6.   OS " Sveti Sava " Misici, Modrica;
7.   OS " Veselin Maslesa" Brod, Srbinje;
8.   OS " Petar Kocic" Veliko Palanciste, Prijedor;
9.   OS " Obudovac" Obudovac, Samac;
10. OS " Petar Kocic" Sitnica, Ribnik;
11. OS " Desanka Maksimovic" Velijasnica, Ribnik;
12. OS " Dositej Obradovic" Miljkovac, Doboj;
13. OS " Stevan Dusanic" Pribinic, Teslic;
14. OS " Dositej Obradovic" Koraj, Lopare;
15. OS " Kosta Todorovic" Skelani;
16. OS " Vuk Karadzic" Novi Grad;
17. OS " Vojislav Ilic" Krupa na Vrbasu, Bocac;
18. OS " Donji Zabar" Loncari, Srpsko Orasje;
19. OS " Vuk Karadzic" Gornji Petrov Gaj, Prijedor.
3.   PROJECT TASKS
The objectives of the Second Emergency Education Reconstruction Project in Republic of Srpska
were to make reconstruction of school buildings that were suffering from destruction during the
war. With its reconstruction, we ensured a decent education for students from the respective
school area, and we're also ensured the acceptance of the students-returnees. For the same
schools we provided necessary classroom furniture.
4. DESCRIPTION OF THE SECOND PROJECT
The Second Emergency Education Reconstruction Project in Republic of Srpska was intended
for:
-    sanitation of primary schools damaged during the war;
-   procurement of the furniture and equipment for classrooms;
-    training of teachers for work in experimental schools;
-    ensuring of consultants' services for study of alternatives for education financing and
administration; summing of the study's results through the preparation of reports and presentation
- 36 -



of the same, and assisting in building of consensus for suggested measures through the local
seminars and study travels.
5. REALISATION OF THE PROJECT
The realisation of the project was by stages. In the beginning was some delay because of
organisational problems, and later on, the implementation was conducted in accordance with the
plan.
The project means were realised for:
-    civil works;
-    consulting services in civil engineering;
-   procurement of furniture for equipping of schools that were reconstructed from the credit
sources;
-    consultant services for study, analysis and apprising in education;
-   procurement of the equipment for Project Implementation Unit.
The major part of the project means was spent for civil works in amount of KM 5.622.284,57, as
well as for consulting services and procurement of the classroom furniture.
For the training of the teachers for work in experimental schools and textbooks review under the
OHR order was spent KM 233.090.
The following table is giving the amount spent by beneficiaries:
SCHOOL                                     AMOUNT (KM)
1. " Vuk Karadzic" Kravica, Bratunac;       751,974.15
2. " Nemanja Vlatkovic" Sipovo;             589,486.74
3. " PetarKocic" Kopljevici, Mrkonjic Grad;  139,831.32
4. "2. osnovna Skola" Grcica-Dizdarusa, Brcko;  363,530.53
5. " Sveti Sava" Milosevac, Modrica;        270,990.00
6. " Sveti Sava " Misici, Modrica;          256,672.39
7. " Veselin Maslesa" Brod, Srbinje;        251,001.89
8. " Petar Kocic" Veliko Palanciste, Prijedor;  231,486.73
9. " Obudovac" Obudovac, Samac;             409,909.02
10. " Petar Kocic" Sitnica, Ribnik;          314,042.32
11. " Desanka Maksimovic" Velijasnica, Ribnik;    277,240.16
12. " Dositej Obradovic" Miljkovac, Doboj;   267,319.47
13. " Stevan Dusanic" Pribinic, Teslic;      232,807.57
14. " Dositej Obradovic" Koraj, Lopare;      322,933.30
15. " Kosta Todorovic" Skelani;              247,217.82
16. " Vuk Karadzic" Novi Grad;               367,609.92
17. " Vojislav Ilic" Krupa na Vrbasu, Bocac;  125,888.97
18. " Donji Zabar" Loncari, Srpsko Orasje;   320,712.31
19. " Vuk Karadzic" Gornji Petrov Gaj, Prijedor.   240,305.89
- 37 -



FINANCE:
The financial tasks were performed by the employed person (full-time basis) that pass the World
Bank training on payments, withdrawal of means, justification of expenses and other items needed
for managing with World Bank's finance. The same person performed financial tasks for Pilot
project EERP-I, so the experience from EERP-I was precious for successful financial managing in
EERP-II.
The withdrawal of means from the credit account was done in traditional manner, with
withdrawal applications, based on SOE forms, on the monthly basis. All contracted payments for
contractors and consultants were made via Special Account in ING BANK in Vienna, and
disbursements for operative cost were made from project account at local commercial bank. The
direct payments form the credit account were not possible, for the portions for contracted
payments were to small to fulfil conditions for direct payment from the credit account.
The withdrawals of special account on the project account were done monthly and in amounts of
15,000.00 to 30,000.00 USD, and the status on the project account in the local bank never gone
over 20,000.00 USD. All disbursements were done in KM.
Regarding that during the project we had unbalanced spending comparing to the original
allocation by categories, it was submitted a request for re-allocation of means, and World Bank
approved it.
Its opinion on financial management and project success gave the independent auditor
PricewaterhouseCoopers from Holland. According to their opinion, which is in the Report on the
Project Financial Statements dated on June 19, 2000., the financial statements give true and fair
view of the financial position of Republic of Srpska part of the Second Emergency Education
Reconstruction Project and its Sources and Uses of Funds at December 31, 1999, for the year
then ended in accordance with World Bank requirements.
Besides the financial auditing, the Economical Institute from Banja Luka performed Procurement
monitoring and auditing, and the report was positively graded.
ADMINISTRATION
The PIU was staffed by: director who was responsible for the overall operations of PIU and
approving all expenses; a project manager for civil works who was responsible for managing the
preparation of tender documents, their review, supervision of the bidding process and examination
of bids, and supervision and final acceptance of work; a financial manager responsible for all
bookkeeping, financial reporting, payments and withdrawal applications, and lawyer/interpreter
who was responsible for document review, translations, bid evaluation, procurement under World
Bank's methods and general office affairs.
6. CONCLUSIONS
Thanking to the project, there were created a better conditions for work in 19 schools damaged
during the war, as well as the conditions for more quality and undisturbed classes for more than
- 38 -



250 teachers and more than 3000 pupils. At the same time, it was ensured facilitated acceptance
of the students-returnees in these schools.
A good co-operation was established with local community for all kinds of items regarding
implementation of the project and with mutual satisfaction. After expiring of guaranteed
deadlines, all the school buildings are in good condition and until now were not objections on
performed reconstruction.
Under the project of the Experimental Schools was realised a successful co-operation with the
British Council and Faculty of Philosophy from Banja Luka, on the training of the teachers for
work in experimental schools.
There weren't problems and delaying in withdrawal of money from the credit account from the
moment when the application arrives in World Bank, but the problem was that lot of time pass
until the application is signed by the authorised in the Ministry of foreign trade and economical
relations BiH. Therefore, we were made applications on a monthly basis, not to be in situation of
missing means. A much faster procedure would be if the authorised persons were on the level of
Ministry of foreign trade and economical relations RS, or entity.
There weren't problems in utilisation of the means from the project account for account payments,
as well as for cash withdrawal. In one moment there was one problem of cash withdrawal and
than we opened a new account in other commercial bank in Banja Luka, which we continue to
use for it.
For having as better as possible a financial management, during the project realisation, we
implemented all of recommendations and advice of the financial specialist of World Bank.
This team worked very well together with the World Bank offices in Banja Luka and in Sarajevo.
The PIU and Ministry of Education are very satisfied with their relationship with the World Bank
and look forward to continuing their work in the same manner.






IBRD 28578R
16                               Zogreb                            18          To Osijek
TOZ  e     To            Zagreb)         CROATIA                    ,To Vnkovci  
4o  .. ,T O;e
144.                                                                       i 
|benik > . benik
43~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4'
! o5:,                                                                                                                  C.e  
COZ'h             3r"nto 0 s -e                                         .To                      K
c - ' '- ., Nevesinle > ~~~~~~~~~~Podgorc
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ GERMA "o -7. S REPUBIO
>._X4~~~~~~~~~~~~N   .)i)ca              MONTEEGRO
   j         Trebinie; 0                            25         5~~~~0   75
.~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~srz ..~  AUSTRIA 
co RNB3S   '    ' ' ' ' "' ''  '    '   '       j, sWITZ;'_ \ AJSTRIA  HUNGARY/              P...-
42                 ~~~~~o 5ELECE ciIES                  .                                 .           SLOENROAT'-         R  OMANIA  .,
F   NATIONAl AmITAI.       .M~ Of 1?Ef Xnt Snes,                                   cr          FED REP j-(K _,    C
_._ RN U -<- xCa;| 0~~~~~ ITALY                                                  4- 1*8M7T BULGARIA a
CROATIA                                                                                                 M~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-Aeo   a
.~ ~ ~~~~~~~~iftM :Ff~ . -                             .rpEmM.  er      /KIA,                 0
16e. 1t.e                      oB.e,-                                               0    TURKE
OCTOBER 1997



