Document of
The World Bank
Report No. T-7028-BII
TECHNICAL ANNEX
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
SECOND EMERGENCY EDUCATION RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
June 6, 1997
Human Resources Sector Operations Division
Central and Southern Europe Departments
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of June 5, 1997)
Currency Unit: Bosnia and Herzegovina Dinars (BHD)
US$1.00 =        BHD170.00
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BH               Bosnia and Herzegovina
CY               Calendar Year
DC               Direct Contracting
Federation       Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina
EC               European Community
ECHO             European Community Humanitarian Organization
EU               European Union
FY               Fiscal Year of the World Bank
GPN              General Procurement Notice
IBD              International Book Development
ICB              International Competitive Bidding
IDA-ITF          Development Association-Interim Trust Fund
IMG              International Management Group
IS               International Shopping
LIB              Limited International Bidding
MOE              Ministry of Education, Science, Culture, and Sports
NCB              National Competitive Bidding
NS               National Shopping
PIU              Project Implementation Unit
RS               Republika Srpska (Serbian Republic)
SFOR             NATO Peace Stabilization Force
SNCB             Simplified National Competitive Bidding
SOE              Statement of Expenditures
TFBH             Trust Fund for Reconstruction of Bosnia and Herzegovina
UNDP             United Nations Development Program
UNICEF           United Nations Children's Fund
USAID            United States Agency for International Development
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
Vice President:  Johannes Linn (ECAVP)
Country Director:  Christine Wallich (EC2DR)
Division Chief:  Ralph W. Harbison (ECI/2HR)
Responsible Staff:  Jim Stevens, Task Manager (EC1/2HR)
Ilona Szemzo, Social Sectors Operations Officer (EC2BA)
Zorica Lesic, Project Officer (EC2BA)
Michael Mertaugh, Principal Education Officer (ECIi2HR)
Edith Santos, Sr. Staff Assistant (ECI/2HR)
Peer Reviewes:  Bo Matsen, Education Specialist (EU ECHO, Sarajevo)
Sarah Forster, Economist (EC2BA)



BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
SECOND EMERGENCY EDUCATION RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
TECHNICAL ANNEX
Table of Contents
Page No.
A. RECONSTRUCTION PROGRESS TO DATE ............................................................. 1
Primary  School Reconstruction  Program   Update ........................................................ 1
Books and  Educational Materials Support .............................................................                                            1
Support for Project Implementation  and  Capacity  Building  ..................                                      .......................... 2
B. BANK RESPONSE AND RECOVERY STRATEGY FOR EDUCATION ........................... 2
Emergency  Reconstruction  Program   for 1997  ............................................................ 2
Project Sustainability   ............................................................. 4
IBRD/IDA  Assistance  Strategy   ....................                                  ......................................... 5
C. DETAILED PROJECT DESCRIPTION .............................................................                                                                 6
School Rehabilitation  and  Furnishing   .........................................                                    .................... 7
Books and  Educational Materials  .......................                                   ...................................... 7
Education Finance and Administration .............................................................. 8
Project Implementation  ............................................................. 8
Project Costs and  Financing  Plan   .........................                                 .................................... 9
Environmental Aspects  .............................................................  10
D. INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS AND IMPLEMENTATION ..........                                                                             .................... 10
Project Implementation  .............................................................  10
Procurement .............................................................                                                                      11
Disbursements   .............................................................  13
Project Audits, Accounting  and Reporting   .............................................................  14
Supervision  Plan  .............................................................  15
Agreements to be Reached  .............................................................  15
E. BENEFITS AND RISKS ............................................................. 16
TABLES
Table  1:  Primary  School Reconstruction  Program   in the Federation  .............                                         ................... 3
Table 2:  Project Cost and  Financing  by  Expenditure Category   .................                                       ..................... 9
Table  3:  Project Cost by  Component by  Year  ......................................................    9
Table 4:  Procurement Arrangements  ......................                                        ................................  13
Table  5:  Disbursement Categories and  Schedule  ......................................................  14



Page No.
APPENDICES
Appendix 1: Estimated Cost and Disbursement Schedule ............................................. 17
Appendix 2: Project Implementation Schedule ....................................................   20
Appendix 3: Summary of Objectives and Key Performance Indicators ............................. 23
Appendix 4: Project Procurement Plan .....................        ............................... 24
MAP IBRD No. 28377



BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
SECOND EMERGENCY EDUCATION RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
TECHNICAL ANNEX
A. Reconstruction Progress to Date
Primary School Reconstruction Program Update
1.           In December, 1995, The Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina established a priority
reconstruction program, which called for repair or reconstruction of damaged facilities at all levels of
the education system. The total costs of this program were estimated at US$180 million. This original
program did not include school reconstruction needs for the Republika Srpska (RS) because there was,
at that time, no agreed primary school reconstruction program for the RS. The priority program has
since been expanded to include priority reconstruction needs in the Republika Srpska. The total costs
of this expanded priority program are estimated at US$275 million. This priority program includes 91
primary schools which the Federation Government aimed to reconstruct as the first phase of
reconstruction, prior to the start of the 1996-97 school year. Actual primary school reconstruction
under the priority program has fallen short of that goal, due principally to the lack of donor financing.
Financing has already been provided for 52 of the 91 primary schools in the Federation's priority
program. A total of US$10 million has been provided by the World Bank under the first Emergency
Education Reconstruction Project 1 for reconstruction of 28 primary schools throughout the Federation.
Reconstruction of these schools is nearly complete. An additional US$10.5 million has been committed
to reconstruct 24 primary schools and provide school furniture and equipment by the Governments of
Holland, Greece, and Malaysia, USAID, EU/ECHO and various NGOs. A financing gap of
approximately US$13 million remains to reconstruct the remaining 39 primary schools in this priority
program.
Books and Educational Materials Support
2.           The Government's priority program also includes provision of textbooks and
supplementary readers to primary and secondary schools in the Bosniac-majority areas of the
Federation 2 The program calls for the provision to schools in these areas of 72 textbook titles and 40
supplementary reader titles, and various other educational materials. This goal has been only partially
achieved due to a lack of external financing. To date, approximately US$1.5 million in World Bank
financing and US$0.2 million in Dutch Trust Fund financing has been committed to publishing and
printing 20 textbooks and various educational materials which are in the process of being delivered to
Bosnian classrooms. The Soros Foundation has agreed to finance US$0.8 million in supplementary
readers and five English language training books, and several other donors have expressed interest in
providing support for training books in other foreign languages. This leaves unfunded approximately
40 textbook titles, 30 supplementary reader titles, and various other educational materials under the
Federation's priority program. In addition to funds devoted to the emergency delivery of educational
I Memorandum and Recommendation of the President, dated April 22, 1996; Report No. P-6856-BIH
2 Needs for textbooks and supplementary readers in the Republika Srpska and in the Croat-majority areas of the
Federation are currently being met by the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and Croatia, respectively.



-2 -
materials into Bosnian classrooms, Dutch Trust Funds have been used to provide technical assistance to
help the Federation MOE begin to redefine its strategy for textbook production and financing. The
MOE is in the process of formulating new procurement techniques which will shift the responsibility
for publishing textbooks to the private sector.
Support for Project Implementation and Capacity Building
3.           Althougth financing of the first Emergency Education Reconstruction Project is
incomplete, implementation of the financed portions of the Project has been highly satisfactory. With
support from various sources -- including the International Management Group (IMG), the Project
Implementation Unit (PIU) of the Emergency Recovery Project, a consultant project management and
procurement advisor, and Bank staff from the Bosnia Resident Mission -- the Education PIU has
committed over 90 percent of project funds within three months of the effectiveness date of grant
financing.3 Approximately 70 percent of World Bank funding was disbursed by the end of CY 1996.
Government-managed trust funds provided by the Government of the Netherlands have been used to
finance textbook pre-printing costs, PIU operating costs and works supervision, as well as limited
office equipment and vehicles. Additional office equipment and vehicles have been procured for the
PIU and local pedagogical institutes using World Bank Grant and IDA, Credit financing. PIU staff have
developed project management skills to prepare and implement future investment projects financed by
the Bank and other donors. UNDP will contract both PIUs shortly, to implement the reconstruction of
10 schools (seven in the Federation and three in RS), for US$2.0 million being provided by the
Government of Japan.
4.           In addition to building capacity for project management, World Bank-managed trust
funds are being used to promote further analysis and policy reform in several important sub-sectors. In
the field of teacher training, the Bank is supporting a joint initiative with UNICEF/USAID, the United
States Information Agency and the Soros Foundation to expose local experts to teacher training
innovations outside BH and to develop proposals for reform of the teacher training system. The Bank
and the EU's European Training Foundation are jointly financing a review of the secondary technical
and vocational education system. This initiative will help develop needed reforms as BH makes the
transition from emergency reconstruction assistance to long term development of the education system.
Trust Funds provided by the Government of the Netherlands are also being used to review the textbook
production and financing system, and to finance study tours designed to expose local experts to
innovations in the textbook field in other transition economies throughout Eastern and Central Europe.
B. Bank Response and Recovery Strategy for Education
Emergency Reconstruction Program for 1997
5.           The Federation has recently completed preparation of a US$35.0 million primary
school reconstruction program for 1997 which focuses education reconstruction efforts on about 100
severely damaged primary schools; the list includes both central school buildings, as well as smaller
nuclear/satellite schools which report administratively to the central schools. The 1997 also program
includes the unfinanced portion of the 1996 program (39 schools and about US$13 million) and
3 The US$500,000 in financing allocated under the IDA credit for pilot projects in RS has already been
committed. PIU activities were initiated in late 1996. Three pilot schools are presently being reconstructed. All
funds have been committed as of May 1997.



- 3 -
represents about 30 percent of overall primary school reconstruction needs. The Republika Srpska's
1997 primary school reconstruction program of US$17.0 million represents about 30 percent of overall
primary school reconstruction needs in RS, and includes about 40 primary schools. Criteria for school
selection under both the Federation and RS components has broadened from the initial focus on lightly
damaged schools which could be repaired quickly, to include some more severely damaged schools
which will require more intensive reconstruction. As shown in Table 1, below, the 1997 priority
primary school reconstruction list for the Federation includes the 39 lightly damaged schools from the
1996 priority program which were not financed in 1996, plus 140 additional schools which either
suffered serious war or war-related damage (such as damage due to housing refugees), or are located in
UNHCR priority areas for return of refugees. Both the Federation and RS programs have been
prepared in consultation with cantonal (Federation) and regional/municipal authorities.
Table 1: PRIMARY SCHOOL RECONSTRUCTION PROGRAM IN THE FEDERATION
(Number of Primary Schools)
1996 Program      1997 Program
World Bank financed                  28                 18
Financed by Other Donors             24                30
Unfinanced                           39                131
Total                    91                179
6.           In addition to the primary school reconstruction programs, both the Federation and the
RS have prepared priority secondary and higher education reconstruction programs for 1997. Needs
estimates in 1997 for these levels are about US$40 million for the Federation and about US$20 million
for the RS, each estimated to represent about 50 percent of highest priority reconstruction needs in
those subsectors. While emergency financing is needed for secondary and higher education, donors
have been cautioned in various fora, including the Education Task Force and the Brussels donor
conferences, that significant investment at these levels should be linked to needed reforms to improve
the responsiveness of secondary and higher education to the needs of an emerging market economy.
This is particularly necessary in the case of specialized secondary technical and vocational schools,
which need significant changes to respond to employment needs in new sectors and new markets.
7.           Concurrent with emergency physical infrastructure rehabilitation programs, efforts are
ongoing at all levels to upgrade education management and governance and improve the quality of
education delivered in Bosnian schools. Education governance in Bosnia-Herzegovina remains in a
state of flux as the roles and responsibilities of the various levels of government -- Entities, cantons (in
the Federation) and regions/municipalities (in RS) -- continue to evolve. Preparation and
implementation of the first Emergency Education Reconstruction Project has helped to facilitate
contacts between the Federation MOE and the cantons/municipalities, but there is an urgent need to
clarify the roles of various levels of government in providing education, as well as the appropriate
sources of financing for education.



-4-
8.            The Federal and RS MOEs are committed to increasing their capacity to coordinate
investments in the sector and to focus donor support, where feasible, on priority programs in primary
education. The preparation of the 1997 reconstruction programs, described above, reflect that
commitment. The broad goals of the reconstruction program in both the Federation and RS remain the
same as under the first Emergency Education Reconstruction Project: to make fully functional those
classrooms which were damaged by the war, to restore effective teaching capacity by providing
minimal supplies of textbooks, supplementary readers, and educational materials, and to support the
resumption of minimal salaries for teachers. At the same time, both the Federation and RS MOEs are
continuing their efforts to build institutional capacity to manage and coordinate the reconstruction effort
and to deal with longer-term policy issues.
9.            Although the emphasis in the Federation and RS continues to be on emergency
reconstruction needs, government authorities in the Federation are beginning to address a number of
key long term policy issues.4 Technical assistance, study tours and training are being provided through
Bank-managed Dutch Trust Fund financing in the following areas: (1) a review of secondary technical
and vocational education and adult training was recently completed by the European Training
Foundation and presented to the Government and donors in April 1997, and should provide the
background for policy dialogue on secondary VET issues during 1997; (2) a multi-donor supported
Teacher Training Reform Initiative, implemented by the University of Pittsburgh, has successfully
brought together authorities from all Federation cantons to begin to address structure and content
reforms in pre-service and in-service teacher training, and will be presented to the Government and the
donors at the end of June 1997; and (c) pilot textbook production and cost recovery programs have
been developed by International Book Development (IBD), implementation of which will be financed
under this proposed project. In addition, key sector policy issues are being pursued under various
actions carried out under the Education Sector Reconstruction Task Force, which comprises the
Government and the main donor agencies active in the education sector (including the EU, ECHO,
UNDP, USAID, UNHCR, UNICEF, UNESCO, IMG and the Soros Foundation, and the Bank). It is
expected that future investments in the education sector will focus on rebuilding and refocusing
secondary school facilities in the context of a broader secondary education reform, as well as
reorienting teacher training and reforming textbook financing and production.
Project Sustainability
10.          The key question of sustainability for the investments which the Project will support is
whether the responsible authorities will have the resources necessary to operate the project schools
effectively in the future. This means, in particular, whether they will be able to attract and retain
qualified teachers, and whether they will have the budgets necessary to pay for utilities, replenishment
of educational materials, and school maintenance. In the course of appraising this Project, data were
collected from all of the Federation cantons and from the Republika Srpska concerning the availability
of teachers and local capacities to pay teachers and to provide for other recurrent needs. These data
reveal that, in general, schools are adequately supplied with teachers; three-quarters of the teachers
currently in place are fully qualified under prevailing teacher training requirements. Although teachers
4Until after the September elections, the RS MOE had been reluctant to cooperate with the World Bank and
other education donors on emergency reconstruction needs and implementation arrangements, as well as long term
education development issues.; But cooperation has improved recently, resulting in preparation of the 1997 school
reconstruction program and the development of implementation arrangements for World Bank financing. RS
MOE authorities have participated in several recent long-term development initiatives ongoing in the Federation,
and it is hopeful that this cooperation and communication will improve throughout 1997.



-  -
were generally not paid during the war and throughout the 1995/1996 school year, the situation has
improved significantly during the current school year. Throughout the Federation, primary-school
teachers are being paid by the cantons an average of DM 250 per month; secondary school teachers are
being paid an average of DM 300 per month. A few cantons are already paying for utilities and other
recurrent costs; others plan to do so. In the Republika Srpska, teachers are also being paid, but they
receive, on average, only a third as much as teachers in the Federation.
11.          Contrary to expectations, these recent figures confirm that teachers are being paid
throughout the country at this early stage in the recovery process. This is encouraging evidence that
local revenue bases are beginning to recover, and that local budget authorities consistently give a high
priority to the most urgent recurrent financing needs of schools. For the medium term, however, there
is a clear need to develop secure financing for utilities and other recurrent costs of schools which are
not now being met. In the current rapidly evolving budget situation, an important question is whether
local revenues will be adequate to finance these needs and continue to provide adequately for teachers'
salaries. Several activities are planned in the coming year to help ensure that there are adequate
resources for education and other key public services in the future. The Public Expenditure Review
which the Bank carried out with counterparts in both Entities in early May 1997 examines revenues and
expenditures of central and cantonal governments, and recommend measures for increasing tax yields
and improving the efficiency of the budgetary process. Implementation of these measures would be
supported under a planned investment operation and a planned policy-based operation later in 1997. In
addition, the proposed Second Emergency Education Reconstruction Project would address the needs
for financial sustainability of education by supporting several actions to strengthen education finance
and administration: a) carrying out of a study of options for education finance and administration,
looking at the experiences of other decentralized education systems in relation to the decentralization
experience under the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, b) dissemination of findings of the study
through preparation of a report and presentation of a national seminar, and c) supporting consensus-
building for the recommended measures through local seminars, study visits, etc. Conduct of the study
under agreed terms of reference and an agreed time schedule, and implementation of the
recommendations of the study would be conditions of the proposed Second Emergency Education
Reconstruction Project. Continued implementation of the recommendations of the Education Finance
and Administration Study would also be supported through conditionality in a planned policy-based
project in support of public expenditure reform.
12.          Other education policy issues are being addressed by ongoing initiatives of the
Education Reconstruction Task Force, with Bank participation. Bank-executed trust fund financing
provided by the Government of the Netherlands is being used to support policy development in the
areas of secondary technical and vocational education, teacher training, and textbooks, with the aim of
improving educational quality and making the delivery of education more efficient and cost-effective.
It is expected that investments to implement these policies will be supported under subsequent Bank-
financed operations, as well as by other donors.
IBRD/IDA Assistance Strategy
13.          Experience gained from the first Emergency Education Reconstruction Project has
confirmed the importance of working closely with central education authorities to prepare a
consolidated investment program for each of Bosnia's two Entities. This approach has served to build
institutional capacity for central authorities to assume a coordination role, and has facilitated regular
communications between the central level and cantons and municipalities. It has also served to begin
the process of re-orienting aid flows for education away from uncoordinated activities driven by donor



- 6 -
preferences toward adoption of a priority reconstruction program established by the Government and
endorsed by the donor community. This process has had the additional positive impact of helping to
bring together the two partners of the Federation to participate in investment programming and
implementation. It is expected that this proposed second project will have a similar influence in
facilitating cooperation between the Federation and the RS.
14.          In light of the limited IDA-ITF resources allocated to the education sector in Bosnia
(US$11.0 million) and the under-funding of the school reconstruction program, the Bank has decided,
in consultation with the Government and key education donors, to proceed immediately with the
Second Emergency Education Reconstruction Project (FY97), aimed largely at filling the financing gap
for the first project, and supporting school reconstruction in the Republika Srpska. The commitment of
Bank funding to the 1997 program (which includes the financing gap from the first project) is expected
to have a catalytic influence in encouraging other donors to commit to the Government's priority
education reconstruction program, first for the remaining US$6.0 million needed to rehabilitate schools
on the Federation's original list, and then to address the additional requirements of the next group of
140 severely damaged primary schools. Concurrently, the Bank will begin preparation of a third
education project which would, in addition to continuing support for reconstruction, address longer-
term sectoral issues such as improved financing and administration, and structural changes to improve
the relevance of secondary education. IDA-ITF funding under the Second Emergency Education
Reconstruction Project was expected to be made available by the beginning of the construction season
in March 1997. However, macro-economic conditionality has delayecl Board presentation until June
1997, and a good portion of the construction season has been lost. Therefore, the Project will have to
complete construction activities to be initiated during this construction season, during Spring/Summer
1998. Funding for the third project will depend on the availability of IDA-ITF funding in 1997/98.
Significant cofinancing is needed for both projects, as well as for the first Emergency Education
Reconstruction Project.
C. Detailed Project Description
15.          The objective of the proposed Second Emergency Education Reconstruction Project is
to improve primary education access and quality by reconstructing primary schools throughout Bosnia
and Herzegovina, including schools which are ready for tendering but for which financing was not
available under the first Emergency Education Reconstruction Project, and damaged schools in the
Republika Srpska. This financing will help achieve the first project's objective of helping to restore the
delivery of primary education of acceptable quality to the children of BH. The proposed project would
support the reconstruction of 18 primary schools from the unfinanced portion of the Federation's 1996
priority program; other donors are expected to finance the other schools on the 1997 priority list. It
would also finance the reconstruction of about 7 heavily damaged primary schools in the Republika
Srpska. The financing provided under the Second Emergency Education Reconstruction Project would
meet only about 13 percent of estimated total school reconstruction needs at all levels in the Federation
and in RS during 1997. Project resources have been allocated throughout the Federation and RS on the
basis of population. Within cantons and municipalities, project resources are allocated on the basis of
local priorities for education reconstruction.
16.          A detailed cost table for the proposed project is provided in Appendix 1.
Implementation and institutional responsibilities are described in Section D. The Project would
provide: (a) financing for reconstruction of about 25 primary schools in the Federation and RS
(estimated cost, US$8.1 million); (b) the provision of furniture for classrooms in these schools



- 7 -
(estimated cost, US$1.0 million); (c) the provision of textbooks and other educational materials for
Federation schools (estimated cost, US$0.8 million); (d) technical assistance in Education Finance and
Administration (US$0.5 million); and (e) incremental costs of project management (US$0.4 million).
The proposed project would meet about US$7 million of the US$13 million financing gap for the
reconstruction of Federation schools under the First Emergency Education Reconstruction Project,
leaving a financing gap of about US$6 million to be met from foreign sources.
School Rehabilitation and Furnishing
17.          Construction will be carried out by local construction contractors to be selected on a
competitive basis. Architectural designs and specifications are being developed through IMG, using
UNDP financing. Estimated reconstruction costs under the proposed project reflect recent experience
under the first Emergency Education Reconstruction Project, in which reconstruction costs have been
about US$400 per square meter on average. According to a study conducted by the Bank's Resident
Mission in Sarajevo, these costs are lower than the average costs of school reconstruction financed by
NGOs during the project period in BH. The cost of school furniture, financed under the first project
by the EU, was about US$4,000 per classroom, based on a classroom size to accommodate 32 students.
18.          War-damaged schools to be reconstructed under the proposed project in the Federation
were selected and agreed with the Bank during preparation of the first Emergency Education
Reconstruction Project, based on the criteria of: a) light-to-medium war-related damage which could be
repaired quickly, and b) the absence of other facilities which could accomodate the school-age children
in the catchment area. (A list of the specific schools selected for rehabilitation and reconstruction
under the project is available upon request.) Schools have been selected for this second project using
criteria which have been modified to include more severely damaged schools, as well as schools in
UNHCR priority areas for the return of refugees and displaced people. As the agency responsible for
overseeing the school reconstruction process at the Federation level, the MOE took the lead in defining
criteria for selecting schools and reaching agreement on the criteria with the Bank, as well as for
working with canton-level education ministries and other education authorities (in those areas where
canton-level ministries of education were not yet formed) to apply the criteria to the needs of the
various municipalities. Selection of primary schools for reconstruction in the RS has been carried out
by the RS MOE, in cooperation with RS regions/municipalities and the Urban Institute of Banja Luka,
using the same selection criteria and procedures as agreed with the Federation.
Books and Educational Materials
19.          This component (estimated cost US$0.8 million) will help fill the financing gap (about
US$5.0 million) under the first Emergency Education Reconstruction Project for printing of textbooks,
as well as a small pilot for textbook production and financing. Financing is limited to the Bosniac-
majority portions of the Federation, as the RS is obtaining adequate supplies of textbooks from the
Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, and the Croat-majority portions of the Federation from Croatia. Out
of the originally agreed 72 titles for printing under the first project, 20 textbook titles were printed
using IDA project funds (as well as some educational materials) and another five language training
textbooks were printed by the Soros Foundation. The proposed second project will finance
approximately 20 more of the previously agreed textbook titles. This material is expected to be
delivered to schools by the beginning of the 1997-98 school year. Titles selected for production and
delivery were agreed during preparation of the first project; they are principally in science, math, and
literature. The average unit cost for textbooks procured under the first project was less than US$3,



- 8 -
which was slightly below appraisal estimates. Funding for supplementary readers and educational
materials agreed under the first project has, for the most part, not been forthcoming by donors.
20.          The Federation MOE has agreed to procure textbooks to be financed under the second
project through pilot schemes aimed at competitive selection of published manuscripts. Pilots will also
be conducted to test limited cost recovery through rental of textbooks to students, and to promote
competitition in preparation of educational manuscripts. These pilots are currently being developed
with the support of International Book Development (IBD) under Dutch Trust Fund financing. IBD
will be providing hands-on training to Federation MOE staff as well as representatives of cantons and
municipalities and private sector publishers in the Federation. The pilots will represent a first step
towards an overall textbook reform which emphasizes private-sector textbook production and cost
recovery under a standard-setting and quality assurance role provided by government authorities.
Education Finance and Administration
21.           The March, 1994 Washington Agreement which estalblished the Federation of Bosnia
and Herzegovina, and the November, 1995 Dayton Accord which established the State of Bosnia and
Herzegovina stipulate that education in the Federation is the responsibility of the ten cantons
comprising the Federation. But these documents explicitly provide for the delegation of particular
educational responsibilities upwards to the Federation or downwards to individual municipalities, upon
agreement by the cantons. There has been little systematic discussion of the need for delegating other
particular functions to the Federation or to municipalities. This need could arise for several reasons,
including the need to ensure the quality and consistency of education programs, to capture economies
of scale, to ensure the consistency of education quality by region, and to promote nationbuilding.
Although the Republika Srpska has a unitary government and does not face the same questions as the
Federation concerning the role of regional governments, there is, nonetheless, a need to clarify the role
of the RS Ministry of Education in establishing education policy and ensuring the necessary financing
for education programs.
22.           This component will address the need to clarify the roles of the various levels of
government -- Entities, the Federation cantons, and RS regions/municipalities -- in providing and
financing education. It will do so by supporting local and foreign consultant services (estimated cost,
US$0.5 million) to: (a) carry out a study of options for education finance and administration, looking at
the experiences of other decentralized education systems in relation to the decentralization experience
under the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia; (b) disseminate study findings through preparation
of a report and presentation of a national seminar; and (c) support corsensus-building for the
recommended measures through local seminars, study visits, etc. Carrying out of the study and
subsequently implementing its recommendations is to be a condition of project implementation
(paragraph 47).
Project Implementation
23.           This component would finance incremental project recurrent costs (estimated US$0.4
million) to support the PIU of the Federation MOE, as well as the PIU of the RS MOE. The Project
would continue to finance salaries and limited operating costs, such as office supplies and gasoline, that
were initiated under the first Emergency Education Reconstruction Project. A small amount has been
set aside for technical assistance, where necessary, and for office equipment to support the RS PIU.
The role of each PIU is described in Section D below.



-9 -
Project Costs and Financing Plan
24.          Project Costs. The total cost of the second Emergency Education Reconstruction
Project is US$11.0 million. No price or physical contingencies have been included, given the expected
short disbursement period and modular nature of this emergency project. The Project is expected to
disburse over a 24 month implementation period. Project costs are presented in Appendix 1.
25.          Financing Plan. The proposed project would be financed through a proposed IDA-
ITF Credit of US$11.0 million. Although there is no formal cofinancing, the Project would finance a
slice of the overall 1997 education reconstruction program for BH for which donor financing is being
sought, including for the remaining gap of about US$6.0 million under the original Emergency
Education Reconstruction Project. Contracts for this work are ready for tendering.
Table 2: COST AND FINANCING PLAN BY EXPENDITURE CATEGORY
(US$ '000)
IDA-            Total
ITF
Amount   %       Amount   %
1. Civil Works                      8,100.0  100.0   8,100.0   73.6
Federation                      4,700.0
RS                              3,400.0
2. Furniture and Equipment          1,000.0  100.0   1,000.0   9.1
Federation                        650.0
RS                                350.0
3. Books and Educational Materials   800.0  100.0    800.0   7.3
(Fed. Only)
4. Technical Assistance and Training  700.0  100.0    700.0    6.4
Federation                        500.0
RS                                200.0
5. Recurrent Costs                   400.0  100.0    400.0    3.6
Federation                        268.0        _
RS                                132.0
Total                                11,000.0  100.0  11,000.0  100.0
Table 3: COST BY COMPONENT BY YEAR
(US$ '000)
1997     1998       Total
1. School Reconstruction            6,400.0   2,900.0    9,300.0
2. Books and Educational Materials    600.0    200.0       800.0
3.Education Finance and Administration  500.0      -       500.0
4. Project Implementation             240.0    160.0       400.0
Total PROJECT COSTS                   7,740.0   3,260.0    11,000.0
26.          Taxes. IDA/ITF funds will be used to procure specified project inputs, net of taxes.
There are no taxes on civil works, and the Government has waived import taxes and duties on goods
through December 1997. The Government is expected to extend this exemption through the
implementation period for the Project.



- 10-
Environmental Aspects
27.           Because the Project is not expected to have any adverse environmental impact, the
Project has been assigned to Environmental Category C. Hazardous materials such as asbestos will not
be used in school construction or rehabilitation under the Project.
D. Institutional Arrangements and Implemrentation
Project lImplementation
28.          Implementation arrangements will be the same as those used for the successful
implementation of the first Emergency Education Reconstruction Project.5 A Project Implementation
Unit (PIU) located in the Federation MOE is responsible for managing the on-going program in the
Federation. The PIU has successfully managed US$9.2 million in civil works and educational materials
contracting under the first project, and will continue to manage the supplementary funding for activities
in the Federation provided under this project, including maintaining appropriate records as the basis for
periodic project audits. The PIU will continue to be supported by the professional project management
and procurement advisor who provided implementation support under the first project. Technical staff
of the PIU will continue to be responsible for overseeing and coordinating the reconstruction programs
with canton and municipality level officials. They will also continue to work closely with other
agencies providing implementation assistance.
29.           A PIU is established under similar organization and procedures in the Republika Srpska
MOE to manage implementation of those funds allocated to the primary school reconstruction effort in
RS. The project management and procurement advisor will also support this unit. Every effort will be
made to share experiences and documentation between the two Entities. A detailed implementation
schedule for all components is provided in Appendix 2.
30.           Primary School Reconstruction Component. The primary school reconstruction
component will be managed by the Federation PIU's reconstruction unit, which has managed US$8.0
million in civil works contracting under the first project. A similar unit is being established under the
RS PIU. The Federation PIU's reconstruction unit is made up of three architect/engineers. It has
already verified school rehabilitation priorities for project funding with the cantons and managed the
preparation of architectural assessments, designs and cost estimates with the support of the
International Management Group, under UNDP funding. Once supplementary funding is approved
under the Project for the priority schools already selected, this unit will a) formulate bid packages and
prepare bidding documents (largely completed); b) evaluate bids, recomnmend bid awards, and negotiate
contracts, and c) manage the supervision of civil works. As with the first project, the unit will continue
to receive support for managing works supervision from civil engineers provided by the NATO Peace
Stabilization Force (SFOR). The actual supervision will be carried out by local contractors selected
competitively by the PIU and paid for under the credit. The reconstruction unit will also take
responsibility for furniture procurement including defining specifications and coordinating procurement
and delivery of furniture in cooperation with canton-level educational authorities. The RS PIU will be
5 The implementation mechanisms actually used to implement the first Emergency Education Reconstruction
Project have evolved slightly from those described in the Technical Annex for that project. The direct role of
IMG has been reduced, and the PIU has received support from the PCU of the Economic Recovery Credit.



- 11 -
similarly staffed and undertake the same responsibilities. It will have access to a punctual project
impiementation technical assistance, funded under the Project, as needed.
31.          Textbooks. Implementation of this component is to be managed by the Federation
PIU's educational materials unit, which successfully managed about US$1.5 million in textbook and
educational materials procurement under the first Emergency Education Reconstruction Project.
MOE's Chief Editor will act as the principal counterpart to consultants supporting the design and
implementation of textbook production and financing pilots based on competitive selection of private
sector publishers and limited cost recovery over the short term. Working with consultants provided by
IBD in London (financed by the Government of the Netherlands), the Editor will be responsible for
assuring content, quality and acceptability of textbooks and educational materials proposed by private
sector publishers. The Editor will organize the competitive selection of published books and supplies,
as well as their delivery to canton-level warehouses.
Procurement
32.          Procurement arrangements are summarized in the table below and a procurement plan
is attached in Appendix 3. Project procurement is to be made mainly through National Competitive
Bidding (NCB), Simplified National Competitive Bidding (SNCB), and National Shopping (NS).
33.          Advertising. A General Procurement Notice (GPN) was published in Development
Business in June 1996 for the first project; it will be repeated for the proposed project. The notice will
include information about the nature of the goods, works and services to be procured under the primary
school reconstruction program and invite interested and eligible suppliers, contractors and consultants
to send their expression of interest to the Federation and RS PIUs. The GPN will also be re-published
in the local press and distributed to embassies. The GPN will be followed by specific advertisements,
in the local press and distributed to embassies, for individual contracts where necessary. Bidding
documents will be sent to suppliers who respond to the GPN and the specific advertisements.
34.          Goods. Local suppliers of school furniture, books and educational materials proved
responsive and competitive under the first Emergency Education Reconstruction Project, which relied
heavily on National Shopping. Goods procurement under this proposed project will rely more heavily
on National Competitive Bidding procedures, as follows:
a.    National Competitive Bidding (NCB). NCB procedures, requiring local
advertisement, will be used for school furniture, equipment, books and materials estimated to cost
between US$100,000 and US$1.0 million per contract, in accordance with Bank guidelines, up to an
aggregate limit of US$300,000 for the Federation and US$200,000 for the RS.
b.    National Shopping (NS). NS will be used for contracts for goods available in Bosnia
Herzegovina up to an estimated cost of US$100,000 per contract, with at least three quotations, and up
to an aggregate limit of US$300,000 for the Federation and US$200,000 for the RS
c.    Direct Contracting (DC). DC will be used for proprietary items, for reasons of
compatibility and standardization, and in any other justified case. Any direct contracting to be financed
by the IDA credit will need prior Bank approval.
35.          Recurrent Costs/Incremental Operating Costs. Recurrent Costs and Incremental
Operating Costs are currently being financed under a Dutch Trust Fund and under the first Emergency



- 12 -
Education Reconstruction Project. A small amount of funds -- US$400,000 -- has been set aside under
the proposed project to finance these activities at rates of remuneration established by the
Reconstruction Board as recurrent cost financing is exhausted from these other sources.
36.          Works. Given the nature of civil works under the Project, mainly rehabilitation of
existing facilities, Simplified National Competitive Bidding (SNCB) will be used for contracts
estimated to cost up to US$0.2 million per contract up to an aggregate limit of US$2.4 million for the
Federation and US$1.8 million for the RS. These works will be procured under lump-sum, fixed-price
contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from at least three qualified contractors in
response to a written invitation. The invitation shall include a detailed description of works, including
basic specifications, the required completion period, a basic form of agreement acceptable to IDA, and
relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest
price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience and resources to successfully
complete the contract within the specified time period. Any school construction contracts estimated to
cost more than US$0.2 million but less than US$2.0 million up to an aggregate limit of US$2.3 million
for the Federation and US$1.6 million for the RS would be awarded on the basis of advertised
National Competitive Bidding. The contracting industry was well established throughout BH prior to
the war. The experience under the first Emergency Education Reconstruction Project demonstrates that
much of this capacity still exists. Thus, the civil works for school rehabilitation and reconstruction
under the Project will be carried out in the customary manner -- through contracts with commercial
construction enterprises.
37.          Services. Services under the Project -- mainly for the supervision of works -- will be
procured through a request for proposals from a short list of qualified firms/individuals. Qualified
firms will be invited to submit proposals for comprehensive packages of consultant services and
management of fellowships and training in accordance with the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants
by World Bank Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing Agency" (August 1981). To keep the
evaluation process manageable, no more than six (but at least three) proposals will be invited following
a short listing acceptable to the Bank.
38.          Procurement Implementation Capacity. Procurement performance has been
satisfactory under the first Emergency Education Reconstruction Project. The need for hands-on
assistance provided by the World Bank Resident Mission in Sarajevo, SFOR, and the project
management and procurement advisor is expected to decline during, implementation of the proposed
second project. However, this assistance, with the exception of the ERP support, will continue to be
available to the Federation PIU, as well as to the PIU in the Republika Srpska, which is likely to need
more hands-on support initially.
39.          Prior and Post Bank Review of Procurement Documents. Prior review will be
required for the first three contracts awarded through National Shopping (NS), Simplified National
Competitive Bidding (SNCB), or National Competitive Bidding (NCB) for both the Federation and for
RS. Prior review will also continue to be required for all contracts procured through Direct
Contracting (DC).



- 13 -
Table 4: PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
(US$ Million)
Procurement methods (US$m) a/
Category of Expenditures    NCB bi    SNCB b/         NS          Other           Total
Civil works                  3.9         4.2                                       8.1
(3.9)       (4.2)                                    (8.1)
Furniture & Equipment        0.5                     0.5 c/                        1.0
(0.5)                  (0.5) c/                      (1.0)
Textbooks                    0.8                                                   0.8
(0.8)                                                (0.8)
Technical Assistance                                                0.7            0.7
(0.7)          (0.7)
Recurrent Costs                                                     0.4            0.4
(0.4)          (0.4)
Total Financing              5.2          4.2         0.5           1.1            11.0
(5.2)       (4.2)       (0.5)         (1. 1)        (1 1.0)
NCB   - National Competitive Bidding
SBCB  - Simplified National Competitive Bidding
NS     - National Shopping
a/     Figures in parentheses represent IDA-ITF financing.
b/     All civil works will be procured using national competitive bidding and simplified national competitive
bidding procedures
c/     All school furniture and equipment will be procured using NCB and NS.
Disbursements
40.           Disbursement categories and projected disbursements under the Credit are shown in
Table 5, below. The Project is expected to be disbursed over a period of 24 months from the date of
effectiveness, scheduled for July 1997. The closing date will be October 30, 1999.



- 14 -
Table 5: DISBURSEMENT CATEGORIES AND SCHEDULE
(US$ million)
IDA-ITFCategory    Federation    RS    Total         % of Expenditures to be Financed
1. Civil works          4.6      3.3   7.9    100% (net of taxes)
2. Goods                 1.5      0.3   1.8    100% of foreign expenditures
100% of local expenditures (ex-factory cost) and 85% of
local expenditures for other items procured locally
3. Tecnical Assistance  0.5       0.2  0.7    100%
4. Recurrent Costs      0.3       0.1   0.4    100%
5. Unallocated          0.1       0.1   0.2
TOTAL             7.0      4.0   11.0
41.           Special Accounts. To facilitate timely project implementation, payments for agreed
project actions are to be made from two Special Accounts: one for the Federation and the other for
RS. The currency of the Special Accounts will be US dollars. Resporisibility for making payments
from the Special Accounts will continue to be delegated by the State. The authorized allocation of the
Special Account for the Federation would be US$3.0 million, representing about four months of
estimated average expenditures expected to be paid from the Special Account. This is consistent with
the disbursement performance under the first Emergency Education Reconstruction Project. The
authorized allocation of the Special Account for the RS would be US$1].75 million, also representing
about four months of average expenditures to be paid from the account. Replenishment applications
would continue to be forwarded to the Bank monthly and will include reconciled bank statements as
well as other appropriate documents. For large contracts, the Bank would make direct payments to
suppliers.
42.           Statement of Expenditures. With the exception of direct contracting and the first
three contracts awarding through National Shopping (NS), Simplified National Competitive Bidding
(SNCB), or National Competitive Bidding (NCB), disbursements would be made against Statements of
Expenditures (SOEs) for goods and civil works contracts of up to US$ 1.0 million. Disbursement
against all recurrent expenditures under the Project will be made by Statement of Expenditures, as
would all expenditures for consultant services amounting to less than US$100,000 for firms and
US$50,000 for individuals. Detailed documents evidencing expenditures would be maintained in a
central location by the PIUs for review by the required audit as well as Bank supervision missions.
Disbursement for contracts requiring the Bank's prior review would be made against presentation to the
Bank of full contract documentation.
Project Audits, Accounting and Reporting
43.           Accounts. Separate and auditable accounts would be established and maintained by the
two PIUs for the Project. For each Entity, these accounts would include: (i) a record of withdrawals
with copies of all disbursement requests and underlying documentation; and (ii) a record of transactions
under the Special Account and copies of the bank statements pertaining to the account.



- 15 -
44.           Audits. The project accounts would be audited annually by independent auditors who
shall be employed by November 30, 1997 under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank. Separate
audit statements would be prepared for the Special Account and for Statements of Expenditures. All
audit reports would be made available to the Bank within six months after the end of each fiscal year.
Project accounts would be maintained for one year after they have been audited.
45.           Reporting. The project PIUs will prepare and furnish to the Bank quarterly: a)
progress reports showing the status of implementation of the Project, and b) financial reports in a
format acceptable to the Bank.
Supervision Plan
46.           Project implementation will continue to require a large degree of flexibility in view of
the rapidly changing circumstances in the country. In particular, procurement and disbursement issues
will continue to require intensive supervision, particularly for the RS PIU, which has less experience
with World Bank guidelines and procedures. Given the straightforward nature of the Project and the
short implementation period, no midterm review will be required. To facilitate flexibility and rapid
decision-making, the social sectors Bank staff located in the World Bank Resident Mission in Sarajevo
and in the Human Resources Hub in Budapest, as well as headquarters-based staff, will continue to
provide intensive supervision of initial project implementation, and will provide prompt feedback on
matters requiring a decision by the Bank.
Agreements Reached
47.           Agreement was reached at Negotiations on the following points:
a)    that the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republika Srpska would: i)
carry out by September 30, 1997 an Education Finance and Administration Study under
terms of reference satisfactory to the Association; ii) provide to the Association for
comment by October 31, 1997 the findings and recommendations of the Education
Finance and Administration Study; and iii) subsequently implement the
recommendations of the Study, as discussed and agreed with the Association;
b)    that the State, the Federation and RS shall employ independent auditors by November
30, 1997;
c)    that the Federation and RS shall coordinate with the Procurement Monitoring and Audit
Unit for purposes of procurement monitoring and audit for their respective parts of the
Project;
d)    that the Federation and RS shall by February 28 of each year prepare a report on the
progress achieved in carrying out their respective parts of the Project and review such
report, together with the Association, by March 31, 1998; and



- 16 -
e)    that the execution of a Project Agreement between IDA and at least one of the Entities
and the corresponding Subsidiary Credit Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina
and such Entity would be a condition of effectiveness for the proposed ITF Credit.
Execution of the Project Agreement between IDA and the other Entity and the
corresponding Subsidiary Credit Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and such
Entity would be a condition of disbursement for that portion of the Credit allocated to
that Entity.
E. Benefits and Risks
48.          Benefits. The proposed Second-Phase Implementation of the Emergency Education
Reconstruction Project would help to restore the provision of education of acceptable quality
throughout the Federation and RS, thereby improving the educational qualifications and future
produptive potential of their school-age population. The Project would also improve the Government's
capacity to manage education programs, and would continue to provide a framework for cooperation
between the two partners of the Federation, and encourage similar cooperation between the Federation
and the Republika Srpska.
49.          Risks. The risk remains that a renewal of hostilities among the various partners of the
new State and Federation could undermine implementation of the Project, and prevent (or severely
delay) achievement of the Project's objectives. However, the reconstruction program itself is helping
to reduce this risk by creating incentives for cooperation by all parties.



- 17 -
APPENDIX 1
Page 1 of 3
Bosnia and Herzegovina
Second Emergency Education Reconstruction Project
Estimated Cost and Disbursement Schedule
(US$ '000)
Project Cost Sununary
Books and
School       Educational    Education Finance       Project
Reconstruction    Materials    and Administration   Implementation      Total
1. Investment Costs
A. Civil Works                        8,100.0               -                  -                 -       8,100.0
B. Furniture and Equipment            1,000.0               -                  -              50.0       1,050.0
C. Educational Materials                   -            800.0                  -                 -        800.0
D. Technical Assistance and             150.0               -              500.0            50.0 a!       700.0
Training
Total Investment Costs                  9,300.0           800.0              500.0              50.0      10,650.0
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Incremental Operating Costs              -               -                  -             350.0        350.0
Total Recurrent Costs                        -                -                  -             350.0        350.0
Total PROJECT COSTS                     9,300.0           800.0              500.0             400.0      11,000.0
Taxes
Foreign Exchange                      9,300.0           800.0              500.0             400.0      11,000.0



- 18 -
APPENDIX 1
Page 2 of 3
Bosnia and Herzegovina
Second Emergency Education Reconstruction Project
Estimated Costs
(US$ '000)
School Reconstruction
Total
Cost
(US$)
1997      1998      Total
L. Investment Costs
A. Civil Works
Federation: Primary School Reconstruction      3,710.0   1,020.0    4,730.0
RS: Primary School Reconstruction              1,370.0   2,050.0    3,420.0
Subtotal Civil Works                             5,080.0   :3,070.0    8,150.0
B. Primary School Furniture
Federation: School Furniture                     603.0      67.0      670.0
RS: School Furniture                             330.0         -      330.0
Subtotal Primary School Furniture                  933.0      67.0    1,000.0
C. Design & Management Assistance
Federation: Construction Supervision              60.0      40.0      100.0
RS: Construction Supervision                      50.0         -       50.0
Subtotal Design & Management Assistance            110.0      40.0      150.0
Total                                          6,123.0   3,177.0    9,300.0



- 19 -
APPENDIX 1
Page 3 of 3
Bosnia and Herzegovina
Second Emergency Education Reconstruction Project
Estimated Costs
(US$ '000)
Textbooks
Total
Cost
(US$)
1997   1998   Total
1. Investment Costs
A. Books and Educational Materials (Federation Only)
Textbooks                                          280.0  120.0  400.0
B. Production and Financing Pilot Schemes (Fed. Only)
Pilot Development and Implementation               320.0   80.0  400.0
Total                                              600.0  200.0  800.0
Education Finance and Administration
Base Cost (US$)
1997        Total
I. Investment Costs
A. Technical Assistance            350.0        350.0
B. Training                        150.0        150.0
Total                                 500.0        500.0
Operating Costs
Total Cost (US$)
1997      1998          Total
I. Investment Costs
A. Project Implementation
1. Equipment Support (RS Only)
Office Equipment                          24.0        6.0               30.0
Vehicles                                  20.0          -               20.0
Total Investment Costs                            44.0       6.0               50.0
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Federation: Incremental Operating Costs    140.0     140.0              280.0
B. Federation: Annual Audits                   10.0      10.0               20.0
C. RS: Incremental Operating Costs             45.0      45.0               90.0
D. RS: Annual Audits                            5.0       5.0               10.0
Total Recurrent Costs                            200.0     200.0              400.0
Total                               244.0      206.0              450.0



- 20 -
APPENDIX 2
Page 1 of 3
Bosnia and Herzegovina
Second Emergency Education Reconstruction Project
Project hnplementation Schedule
Activity                 Description              Start Date    End Date    Responsible
Agency
School Reconstruction Component
Selection of     Develop 1997 priority school
schools          reconstruction program
Federation:                      09/96        complete      Fed-PIU
RS:                               10/ 96      03/97         RS-PIU
Select schools from program to
reconstruct with IDA funding
Federation:                      01/97        complete      Fed-PIU
RS:                              01/97        06/97         RS-PIU
Design phase     Prepare assessments/architectural designs
for schools
Federation:                      06/96        06/97         PIU/IMG
RS:                              06/97        07/97         PIU/Urban
Institute
Prepare specifications for school
reconstruction and furniture
Federation:                      05/96        complete      Fed-PIU
RS:                              06/97        08/97         PIU/Urban
Institute
Prepare procurement documents for   04/97        07/97         PIUs
Procure          school reconstruction and furniture
contractors for
reconstruction   Choose at least three qualified contractors  07/97  07/97       PIUs
works, school    per school and invite for bidding for
furniture and    schools estimated below US$1.0 million
supervision (same
for Federation and  Advertise works for works estimated  07/97     07/97         PIUs
RS)              above US$1.0 million
Prepare bids                        07/97        07/97         Contractors
Evaluate bids                       07/97-08/97   07/97-08/97   PIUs
Award and negotiate contracts       07/97-08/97   07/97-08/97   PIUs
Sign contracts once WB credit effective    07/97-08/97   07/97-08/97   PIUs
Select supervision contractors using  07/97      07/97         PIUs



- 21 -
Activity                  Description              Start Date    End Date     Responsible
Agency
competitive selection
Reconstruct      Implement reconstruction program      08/97         07/98         Contractors
schools                                                                            with PlUs &
and deliver                                                                        Canton/
furniture                                                                          municipality
(same for
Federation and    Supervise reconstruction works and   08/97         07/98         Contractors
RS)               furniture delivery                                               with PIUs &
Canton/
municipality
Books and Educational Materials Component
Select books and    Review list of previously agreed   03/97         04/97         PIU/
materials to be   textbooks and readers and agree with WB                          consultant
financed          on books to be fnanced
(Federation only)
Procure and      Invite printing proposals for agreed  07/97         08/97         PIU
distribute books    textbooks and readers from a minimum of
and materials     three local printers/book suppliers
Evaluate printing/supply proposals from    08/97   09/97         PIU
printers/book suppliers
Negotiate printing and supply contracts    09/97   09/97         PIU
Sign contracts once WB credit is effective  09/97  10/97         PIU
Distribute books    Take delivery of textbooks readers and  01/98    02/98         PIU
and materials to    arrange for distribution to canton level
cantons
Develop &         Develop pilot activities              12/96        06/97         PIU/ cons.
implement pilot
schemes for       Train participants                   07/97         09/97         PIU/cons.
production and
financing         Implement pilot activities            10/97        08/98         PIU/ cons.
Project Implementation Component
Select key        Establish a Project Implementation Unit
personnel to         Federation:                        04/96        complete      Fed-MOE
manage               RS:                                11/96        complete      RS-MOE
implementation
Procure support    Define specifications for support    03/97        06/97         PIU
equipment (RS     equipment (computers, copiers, vehicles,
only; Federation    etc.) to be provided for PIU



- 22 -
Activity                  Description               Start Date    End Date     Responsible
Agency
PIU equipped
under first project  Organize separate procurement for office  06/97  07/97         PIU
equipment and vehicles on the basis of
three price quotations
Sign contracts for equipment and vehicles  07/97   07/97         PIU
once WB credit is effective
Organize payment  Disburse operating funds for project  08197         11/98         PlUs
of project related   related operating costs including salaries,
operating costs   office supplies, and vehicle operation and
maintenance (Federation and RS)



- 23 -
APPENDIX 3
Page 1 of 1
Bosnia and Herzegovina
Second Emergency Education Reconstruction Project
Summary of Objectives and Key Performance Indicators
INPUTS              OUTPUTS             RISKS AND           OUTCOMES AND
(Resources          (Goods and          CRITICAL            IMPACTS
provided for        Services Produced    ASSUMPTIONS        (of project
OBJECTIVES          program activities)   by the Program)   (The outcome is     activities)
dependent on...)
Reconstruction and   - IDA Credit ($10    - About 25 war    - continued peace in  - About 30% of BH
furnish 25 war      million)            damaged primary     BH                  needs in primary
damaged primary                         schools             - continued         school
schools             About US$8.8        reconstructed and    cooperation with   reconstruction met
million in funds    furnished in BH     RS authorities      - continued
will be used to:                        - continued (from   improvement in
- Reconstruct and                       first project)      cooperation
furniture about 24                      efficient           between Federation
war damaged                             management of       partners
primary schools in                      procurement for     - improved aid
the Government's                        reconstruction and    coordination in
1997 reconstruction                     furniture contracts   education
program                                                     - improved
cooperation
between Federation
and RS in
Education
Delivery of         -.IDA Credit        - 12 textbooks      - continued peace in  - progress towards
essential textbooks   (US$10 million)   delivered to schools  BH                meeting emergency
to Federation       - Dutch Trust Fund   - textbook         - continued (from   educational
schools and        (US$70,000)          production and cost  first project)     materials needs
implementation of                       recovery pilots     efficient           - development and
successful textbook   About US$0.8      successfully        management of       testing of textbook
pilots              million in IDA      implemented         procurement for     production and cost
funds will be used                      textbooks and       recovery
to:                                     education materials   mechanisms that
- cooperation of    will ensure private
- procure about 12                      Canton level        sector involvement
essential textbooks                     officials in textbook  in textbook
and delivery them                       pilots              provision and help
to schools                                                  ensure the
- prepare and                                               sustainability of
implement textbook                                          public education
production and cost                                         delivery
recovery pilots in
several Federation
Cantons



- 24 -
APPENDIX 4
Page 1 of 1
Bosnia and Herzegovina
Second Emergency Education Reconstruction Project
Project Procurement Plan
Expenditure Category          Total Cost         Likely      Invitation    Contract    Work/Delivery     All Work/
US$Miflion      Procurement    to Bid        Awards          Begins         Delivery
Methods                                                   Complete
CIVIL WORKS
Refurbishment of Schools              8.1           NCB/NS           7/97        7/97         7/97-8/97          8/98
(estimated 24 contracts)
GOODS AND EQUIPMENT
Supply of School Furniture            1.0           NCB/NS           7197        8/97            9/97            12/97
(estimated 6 contracts)
Textbook printing                     0.8             NCB            7/97        9197            1/98            2/98
(estimated 12 contracts)
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Works Design         }                0.2              SL            6/97        7/97            7/97            8/97
Supervision          }                                 SL            7/97      7/97-8/97         7/97         7/97-12/98
Audits               }                                 SL            8/97        10/97           12/97           4/99
Education Finance and                 0.5              SL           07/97        9/97            9/97            4/98
Administration
OPERATING COSTS
Salaries/supplies/vehicle operation   0.4             N/A            N/A         N/A             N/A             N/A
and maintenance
TOTAL                                 11.0



MAP SECTION






IBRD 28377
16                           o Tozagreb                      180         ToOsijekI
TC) Zogre''      To Zagrebs
To Zogreb>>) +>agreb                C R O  A T I A                To vinkovcc
""' ,"o.            *,  ,,                  To Osijek
ski movi                  ns                                                   45'-~~~~~jp'rv
Nj Boeonslci NoM  Bosnskc&                                                 '   - To Belgrad
45@                 pet       G rdk                       Bouon-ki
rniwaor    /a
~~~~ b A <<tGot9  KFDrssa                                               RPBLICI'n
43~~~~~~~~~~~~ r' >2                                           %tsj  - -~      -      szz    -         b XgYUnGcOSLAIA
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
A~~~~~~~~~~~~caj dr~ ia*                                                  ar i~ cBeealgrade 2    5    7
yS  a -                         Proaar                                 R&iIn V;es}Tismapwasrducdytea
RECONSTRUCTWON  PRO-J ECT                                       .~~~~~~~~Ne~~s  Konv1    bouraemntaceTaeofs
--:.--. FDERTIN-C NTOLLD  REA  -            ,      ks0tgA     (FEDERAL HIGREPUBLIC 
.0~~~~~3
69 ~ ~ ~     ~      ~      ~     ~     ~    Reo (AlOA CAISERBTLYX'O<IA E B/MONTENEBUGARIA )EE
---IN6TrebNI'                                               KILnOMETQ E
This mopf wasr prouce by the Map
D     k                         Dsin Unit The Wld X B0 ThKE
endorsement or acetac   96s
CROATIA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ZC n" OAD
g'as   RIERi2'ai-u                                                                  enjc RMAQA   t
42,                                                                                                   -65ko 
0   SELECTED CITIES                                "''~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'-k    K.~~~~T
K t'~~~~~ eltgr -de
N ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~c
0~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~14
TO~ ~~COER19






I
I



IMAGING
Report No.: lP  T  7028   BIH
Type:     MO       A N



