Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE
 
Report No.:  AB2426 
Operation Name 
NI POVERTY REDUCTION SUPPORT CREDIT II 
Region 
LATIN AMERICA AND CARIBBEAN 
Sector 
Central government administration (100%) 
Project ID 
P089816 
Borrower(s) 
REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA 
Implementing Agency 
Ministry of Finance and Public Credit (MHCP) 
Address
Avenida Bolívar, Frente a Asamblea Nacional 
Managua, Nicaragua 
Date PID Prepared 
June 8, 2006 
Estimated Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
September 4, 2006 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
October 26, 2006 
1. 
Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
The proposed operation is an integral part of the of the Bank’s Interim Strategy Note, presented to the 
Board in August 2005, whereby the Bank expresses its commitment of providing budget support through 
policy-based lending.  The reforms implemented under the PRSC I, the first operation, helped Nicaragua 
make substantial progress in the areas of decentralization, public financial management, civil service 
reform, and the energy sector, while maintaining a stable macroeconomic situation.  Hence, the PRSC II 
will provide financing that will ensure continuity and sustainability of the reforms achieved under the 
PRSC I, and will allow the Government to engage in a development path that emphasizes increased 
economic activity and employment growth for poverty reduction. The proposed Poverty Reduction 
Support Credit (PRSCII) is the second in the PRSC series supporting the implementation of country’s 
second generation Poverty Reduction Strategy (PRSP II). The PRSP II builds on five strategic areas: (i) 
economic growth for poverty reduction, (ii) human capital development and social protection, (iii) 
productive and social public infrastructure, (iv) governance and state reforms, and (v) macroeconomic 
stability. 
2. Proposed 
objective(s) 
 
The PRSC II would support the Government’s efforts in pursuing its policy objectives, as laid out in its 
PRSP II and its accompanying Matrix of Goals and Actions 2006 – 2010. More specifically, the PRSC II 
would provide budget financing, within a structured medium term macro framework, in support of 
policy reforms in the following areas: (a) protecting poverty expenditures, (b) improving land tenure 
security and promoting registration of indigenous communities’ titles, (c) implementing legislation 
establishing a civil service, (d) improving management of public finances, and (e) promoting regular 
maintenance of roads. 
 
3. Preliminary 
description 
 
The PRSC II aims to promote inclusive economic growth; improve the access to and quality of public 
infrastructure and systems needed to achieve this growth; improve the quality of public sector 
employment and transparency and efficiency in public sector financial management and procurement; and 
protect poverty reduction expenditures while maintaining a sound macroeconomic situation. To achieve 
its objectives, the operation will support the following policy areas: 
 
ƒ
Poverty Reduction Expenditures 
Page  2
ƒ
Maintenance of adequate macroeconomic framework  
ƒ
Implementing the Civil Service Reform 
ƒ
Public Investment Program 
–Channeling Funds through the CUT  
ƒ
Access to Land – Registration of Indigenous Territories and National Registry System 
ƒ
Access and Quality of Infrastructure –Transportation  
 
4. Environment 
Aspects 
 
The proposed PRSC is a development policy operation covering a broad spectrum of economy-wide 
policies and institutions. The environmental provisions of OP 8.60 apply. The Bank has determined that 
the specific policy areas supported under the proposed PRSC II are unlikely to have significant negative 
effects in the country’s environment and natural resources. Furthermore, some of the policies are expected 
to have positive poverty-related and social impacts. 
 
5. Tentative 
financing 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 0 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
25 
 Total 
25 
 
6. Contact 
point 
 
Contact: Amparo Ballivián 
Title: Country Manager 
Tel: (505) 270-0000, 5398 + 202 
Fax: (505) 270-0077 
E-mail: aballivian@worldbank.org 
Location: Managua, Nicaragua (IBRD) 
 
