Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB2563 
Operation Name 
NI POVERTY REDUCTION SUPPORT CREDIT II 
Region 
LATIN AMERICA AND CARIBBEAN 
Sector 
Central government administration (100%) 
Project ID 
P089816 
Borrower(s) 
REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA 
Implementing Agency 
Ministry of Finance and Public Credit (MHCP) 
Address
Avenida Bolívar, Frente a Asamblea Nacional 
Managua, Nicaragua 
Date PID Prepared 
September 21, 2006 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
August 28, 2006 
Date of Board Approval 
November 7, 2006 
1. 
Country and Sector Background 
 
The present Government of President Enrique Bolaños was sworn in early 2002, facing a large 
fiscal deficit and wide-spread corruption. The Government took decisive actions on both fronts. 
The first political action of the new government was to seek the removal of parliamentary 
immunity from former President Alemán, and prosecute him for various corruption charges. The 
new government also moved quickly to restore macroeconomic discipline, signed a PRGF 
agreement with the IMF in late 2002 and took all actions necessary to reach the HIPC 
Completion point in early 2004.   
 
Given a largely opposing legislative, relations with the executive became very tense in 2005. 
Early that year the National Assembly approved important Constitutional amendments and 
related legislation. But later in the year these were put on hold until the next administration 
assumes power.  As a side result of these political agreements, DR-CAFTA was ratified by the 
National Assembly. The next presidential-cum-congressional elections are scheduled for 
November 2006. 
 
The economy has continued to perform well since 2002, notwithstanding the adverse pressure 
from higher oil prices. Growth accelerated to 5.1 percent in 2004 and an estimated 4 percent in 
2005, while inflation has picked up to 9.6 percent y/y as rising international oil prices have been 
passed through to domestic fuel prices.  High oil prices led to losses in the power sector in 2005, 
although electricity tariffs have since been adjusted by 20 percent through January 2006 to 
address this problem.  Strong export growth, as well as higher-than-expected external financing, 
has facilitated an increase in reserves of about $70 million in 2005 in spite of a higher oil import 
bill.  The 2005 budget included large public sector wage increases, but a tax package and 
spending controls helped to reduce the consolidated public sector deficit to an estimated 2.2 
percent of GDP.  
 
Page  2
2. Operation 
Objectives 
 
The proposed Poverty Reduction Support Credit (PRSC II) is the second in a series of operations 
supporting the implementation of the country’s Poverty Reduction Strategy, now in its second 
generation (PRSP II). The PRSP II builds on five strategic areas: (i) economic growth for 
poverty reduction, (ii) human capital development and social protection, (iii) productive and 
social public infrastructure, (iv) governance and state reforms and (v) macroeconomic stability. 
 
Consistent with the PRSP II’s poverty-reduction emphasis, the policy reforms supported under 
the proposed operation aim to: (a) maintain macroeconomic stability while protecting poverty 
spending, (b) promote international trade, (c) promote registration of indigenous communities’ 
titles, (d) ensure fiscal sustainability of legislation governing the education sector, (e) strengthen 
public administration by implementing the legislation establishing a civil service, (f) improve 
management of public finances, and (g) promote regular and financially sustainable maintenance 
of roads. The PRSC II also identifies, in agreement with the Nicaraguan authorities, the major 
policy areas for a new series of PRSCs as of FY08. 
 
The prior actions for Board Presentation are listed below: 
 
•
The National Assembly has approved CAFTA 
•
The Registration in the Public Registry of the title of one indigenous territory in the 
Bosawas Biosphere Reserve has been completed. 
•
The National Assembly has approved the modifications to the General Education Law to 
reduce its fiscal impact. 
•
The amendments to the FOMAV Law are being implemented: FOMAV has started to 
receive the resources established by the Law.  
•
The Civil Service Law has begun implementation: 3,970 public employees have been 
incorporated into the administrative career and due diligence has been initiated to 
incorporate 1,450 additional employees by end of 2006.  
•
The National Assembly has approved a Financial Administration Law satisfactory to IDA 
and the Executive has begun its implementation.  
•
The National Assembly has approved budget for 2006 that is consistent with poverty 
reduction expenditures of the non-financial public sector of at least 13.6 percent of GDP. 
•
Execution of poverty reduction expenditures of the non-financial public sector in the first 
semester of 2006 represented at least 40 percent of the total amount budgeted for the 
year. 
 
3. 
Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
The rationale for a programmatic approach to assistance to Nicaragua was initially presented in 
the FY03-FY05 Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) considered by the Board in March 2003 and 
subsequently updated in the FY06-FY07 Interim Strategy Note (ISN)
1
discussed by the Board in 
August 2005. As indicated in these corporate strategy documents, programmatic lending is seen 
as an appropriate vehicle for supporting the implementation of the PRSP, given its potential for 
enhancing donor coordination around key, measurable results, improving the transparent use and 
impact of public expenditures and reducing the pressures on scarce national institutional 
1
Report No. 32570-NI 
Page  3
capacity. The ISN conditioned the continuation of policy-based lending on the full re-
engagement of the IMF, disbursement of the second tranche of PRSC I and compliance with 
performance benchmarks for PRSC II. The first two had been fulfilled by the first quarter of 
2006, while most of the PRSC II prior actions had been fulfilled by mid-2006 and the remaining 
ones are expected to be achieved by the third quarter of 2006. 
 
In addition to supporting the reform agenda laid out under PRSC I, approved by the Board in 
January 22, 2004, the PRSC II brings to the forefront some of the new priorities for poverty 
reduction laid out in the PRSP II. Specifically, PRSC II places a greater emphasis on growth 
enhancing policies, such as improving access to foreign trade markets, enhancing the financial 
sustainability of road infrastructure maintenance and promoting land tenure security. At the same 
time, key issues already supported in the PSAC and PRSC I, such as macroeconomic stability, 
protection of poverty spending and more efficient public administration are continuing to be 
supported, building on the achievements of these past programmatic operations. 
 
Other multilateral and bilateral donors are also moving to support the Government’s agenda 
through budgetary lending and program-based lending. The 7
th
 through 9
th
 reviews of the PRGF 
program signed with the IMF in late 2002 were successfully completed in May 2006. To 
improve donor coordination in budgetary support, nine donors signed a Joint Financial 
Arrangement (JFA) in May 2005 along with a common Performance Assessment Matrix (PAM). 
The Bank has signed the JFA and has been fulfilling its commitment to prepare the PRSC II 
ensuring a maximum convergence with the common PAM and to harmonize the monitoring and 
evaluation processes of its PRSCs with the corresponding PAM monitoring.  
Of particular relevance is the Bank’s strong coordination with the German financial cooperation, 
who co-financed PRSC I through KfW, and has decided to continue its partnership with the Bank 
by co-financing also PRSC II. Finally, a Bank project designed to provide technical assistance 
for the implementation of PRSC actions – Public Sector Technical Assistance Credit (PSTAC) –
is also being co-financed by four other donors: Netherlands, Sweden, Denmark and DFID.
 
4. Financing 
 
The PRSC II is designed as a single tranche operation for US$ 25 million that will be made 
available for disbursement upon effectiveness. The German financial cooperation/KfW will co-
finance the operation with 4 million euros. 
 
5. 
Institutional and Implementation Arrangements 
 
The PRSC II program is implemented by a government multi-sector team led by the MHCP and 
including nine representatives from different government agencies involved in the program.  
Bank staff will focus on the impact outcomes of the program detailed in the policy matrix. The 
five policy areas, which are consistent with the Government’s PRSP II, have agreed PRSC 
objectives and overall outcomes for each of these areas. Additionally, prior actions, and all other 
actions in the policy matrix, have specific agreed outcome indicators. The PRSC review will be 
largely based on the monitoring indicators (benchmarks) and the goals of the program, presented 
in Annex 3. The indicators of this operation, and any adjustments that need to be made to the 
operation as it evolves, take into account the latest country developments, stakeholder support, 
and feasible options for realizing the intended development goals.  
 
Page  4
The Government’s monitoring system for the PRSP II, is the basis for monitoring the above-
mentioned indicators. This is the National System of Development Indicators (SINASID) 
(
www.sinasid.gob.ni
)
managed by the Technical Secretariat to the Presidency (SETEC), which is 
also the Government’s leader for the PRSP II. Key issues have been identified in need for 
improvement in the short term to support monitoring of PRSP implementation and PRSC 
development goals, outcomes and indicators.  An accompanying technical assistance operation –
Public Sector Technical Assistance Credit (PSTAC) – will provide support to achieve such 
improvements. 
 
6. 
Benefits and Risks 
 
The proposed operation is expected to have three main benefits: (i) provide foreign resources to 
finance general government expenditures, including poverty reduction expenditures, (ii)  support 
the Government’s efforts in pursuing its policy objectives, as laid out in its PRSP II and its 
accompanying Matrix of Goals and Actions 2006–2010, and (iii) contribute to donor 
coordination, as it is being closely coordinated with 8 other donor agencies –the Budget Support 
Group or BSG- which provide budget support to Nicaragua under the common framework of a 
Joint Financing Agreement (JFA). 
 
The country’s political uncertainties surrounding national elections in November 2006 are the 
biggest sources of risk for the operation’s successful implementation. Weak institutional 
capacity, vulnerability to external shocks and natural disasters, the sustainability of public 
expenditures financed partly by the operation and still fragile fiduciary processes, also remain 
risks of concern. On potential fiduciary risks, the Bank and the IMF have recently assessed the 
control environment under which the funds will be disbursed, hence, the risk is considered low 
and largely mitigated. 
 
The one-tranche design will help to mitigate many of these risks. Also, the operation has been 
intensively discussed and coordinated with a multi-sector counterpart team led by the authorities 
of the Ministry of Finance and with BSG donors. Consultations have also been held with the 
National Assembly, civil society groups and the private sector, all of which have helped to shield 
the operation and the Bank itself from undue risks. During the consultations, all major political 
leaders have expressed their intention of approving the operation in the National Assembly 
before the close of the calendar year. 
 
The accompanying Public Sector Technical Assistance Credit is being used to address some of 
the institutional weaknesses and to strengthen fiduciary processes, while a Public Expenditure 
Review is being prepared simultaneously in order to understand better fiscal sustainability issues 
and analyze possible solutions. Also, the Bank’s Natural Disaster Vulnerability Reduction and 
Mitigation project is helping address some of the most clear and preventable risks arising from 
natural disasters in Nicaragua. 
 
7. 
Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects 
 
The policies and measures supported by the PRSC II are expected to have positive poverty and 
social impacts and they build on relevant analytical work. This assessment is based on the 
findings of the 2003 Nicaragua Poverty Assessment (PA) the 2004 Nicaragua Development 
Policy Review (DPR) and Poverty and Social Impact Analyses (PSIAs). The PA focused on 
increased access to rural roads and increased access to safe water and sanitation services, access 
Page  5
to timely and targeted social protection interventions to protect the critically poor in times of 
crisis, and modifications to the system for provision of financial services to benefit a broader 
base. The DPR’s overall thrust was on means of accelerating growth in a changing external 
environment, and its findings emphasized the need for improving education achievement, 
expanding public infrastructure services, strengthening the financial sector, and improved 
governance. 
 
As outlined in OP 8.60 on Development Policy Lending the PRSC team has reviewed the 
environmental policies and practices in the country and has taken into account the relevant 
findings and recommendations of such reviews in the design of PRSC II. Furthermore, Annex 9 
of the Program Document identifies the positive and negative linkages between the various 
policy reforms proposed and the environment. As indicated therein, most policy measures 
supported by PRSC II have positive environmental and social impacts. To the extent there are 
some potential negative impacts, these are localized and specific measures have been identified 
to counteract them, or explain how mitigation is otherwise being achieved within the country’s 
environmental safeguards legislation and practice, summarized below, and the Bank’s 
accompanying investment credits. 
 
8. Contact point 
 
Contact: Amparo Ballivián 
Title: Task Team Leader 
Tel: (591) 701 88 701 
Fax: (591)221 53 305 
E-mail: 
aballivian@worldbank.org
Location: La Paz, Bolivia (IBRD) 
 
Contact: Florencia Castro-Leal 
Title: Senior Economist 
Tel: (505) 270-0000 Ext. 206  
Fax: (505) 270-0077  
E-mail: 
fcastroleal@worldbank.org
Location: Managua, Nicaragua (IBRD) 
 
9. 
For more information contact: 
 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank1818 H Street, 
NW Washington, D.C. 20433  
Telephone:  (202) 458-5454  
Fax:  (202) 522-1500  
Web: 
http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop
