Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
FINANCING NUMBER 4243-NI 
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(Second Poverty Reduction Support Development Policy Financing 
–
PRSC II) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated November 29, 2006  
 
Page  2
FINANCING NUMBER 4243-NI 
 
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated November 29, 2006, entered into between REPUBLIC OF 
NICARAGUA (“Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (“Association”) for the purpose of providing financing in support of the 
Program (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement).  The Association has decided to 
provide this financing on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of: (a) the actions which the Recipient has 
already taken under the Program and which are described in Section I  of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement; and (b) the Recipient’s maintenance of an appropriate macro-economic 
policy framework.  The Recipient and the Association therefore hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I
—GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in the Financing 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II 
—FINANCING 
 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a credit in an amount equivalent to 
sixteen million eight hundred thirty thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
16,830,000) (“Credit”). 
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in support of the 
Program in accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
 
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the 
Unwithdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per 
annum. 
2.04. 
The Service Charge payable by the Recipient on the Withdrawn Credit Balance 
shall be equal to three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum. 
Page  3
2
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are February 15 and August 15 in each year. 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Credit shall be repaid in accordance with repayment 
schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2.07. 
The Payment Currency is Dollars. 
ARTICLE III
—PROGRAM 
 
3.01. 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation.  
To this end: 
 
(a) 
the Recipient and the Association shall from time to time, at the request 
of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out 
the Program;  
 
(b) 
prior to each such exchange of views, the Recipient shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress 
achieved in carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Association 
shall reasonably request; and 
 
(c) 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this 
Section, the Recipient shall exchange views with the Association on any 
proposed action to be taken after the disbursement of the Financing 
which would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives of the 
Program, or any action taken under the Program including any action 
specified in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV
—REMEDIES OF THE ASSOCIATION 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following: 
 
(a) 
A situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, 
or a significant part of it, will be carried out. 
 
(b) 
The Recipient’s macroeconomic policy framework has become 
inconsistent with the objectives of the Program. 
 
(c) 
An action has been taken or a policy has been adopted to reverse any 
action or policy under the Program in a manner that would, in the 
opinion of the Association, adversely affect the achievement of the 
objectives of the Program. 
Page  4
3
(d) 
An action has been taken or a policy has been adopted to reverse any 
action listed in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following, namely, that any 
 
event specified in paragraphs (a), (b), (c) or (d) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement 
 
occurs and is continuing for a period of 60 days after notice of the event has been 
 
given by the Association to the Recipient. 
 
ARTICLE V
—EFFECTIVENESS
 
5.01. 
Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness 
Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, but in no 
case later than the eighteen (18) months after the Association's approval of the 
Credit, which expire on May 7, 2008. 
 
ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
6.01. The 
Recipie
nt’s Representative is its Minister of Finance and Public Credit. 
6.02. 
The Recipient’s Address is:  
 
Ministerio de Hacienda y Crédito Público 
Frente al Edificio de la Asamblea Nacional 
Managua 
Nicaragua  
 
Facsimile:  505-222-3033 
 
6.03.  
The Association’s Address is: 
 International 
Development 
Association 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 INDEVAS 
 248423 
(MCI) 
or 1-202-477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
64145 (MCI) 
 
Page  5
4
AGREED at the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day 
and year first above written. 
 
 
REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA 
 
By /s/ Salvador Stadthagen 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION  
 
By /s/ Jane Armitage 
 
Authorized Representative 
Page  6
5
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Program Actions; Availability of Financing Proceeds 
 
Section I. 
Actions Taken Under the Program
The actions taken by the Recipient under the Program include the following: 
 
1. 
The Recipient’s National Assembly has enacted the Legislative Decree No. 4371, 
 
published in the Recipient’s Official Gazette No. 199, dated October 14, 2005, 
 
which ratified the DR-CAFTA. 
 
2. 
The Recipient has registered in the Recipient’s property registry 
(Registro 
 P
úblico de la Propiedad
)
the title of one indigenous territory in the Bosawas 
 Biosphere 
reserve. 
 
3. 
The Recipient’s National Assembly has enacted the Legislative Decree No. 582, 
 
published in the Recipient’s Official Gazette No. 150, dated August 3, 2006 
 (reform 
to 
the 
Ley General de
 
Educación
), to eliminate the automatic increment 
 
of
the transfers to the Recipient’s budget for its Ministry of Education. 
 
4. 
The Recipient has started the implementation of the Recipient’s Law No. 574, 
 
dated December 22, 2005 and published in the Recipient’s Official Gazette No. 
 
250, dated December 27, 2005, as evidenced by: (a) the collection of the special 
 
tax to finance FOMAV established by article 2 of the Law No. 574; and (b) the 
 
transfer of 86,732,514.71 
Córdobas
 collected from the special tax mentioned in 
 (a) 
above, 
from the Recipient’s National Treasury to FOMAV. 
 
5. 
The Recipient has started the implementation of the Recipient’s Civil Service 
 
Law No. 476, dated November 19, 2003 and published in the Recipient’s Official 
 
Gazette No. 235, dated December 11, 2003 and its Regulation, as evidenced by: 
 
(a) the incorporation of 3,970 public employees into the Recipient’s 
 
administrative career system following the procedures established in the Law No. 
 
476; and (b) advancing the process to incorporate 1,450 additional public 
 
employees into the Recipient’s administrative career system by December 31, 
 2006. 
 
6. 
(a) The Recipient’s National Assembly has enacted the Financial Management 
 
and Budget Regime Law pursuant to the Legislative Decree No. 550, published 
 
in the Recipient’s Official Gazette No. 167, dated August 29, 2005, and its 
 
modification pursuant to the Legislative Decree No. 565, published in the 
 
Recipient’s Official Gazette No. 226, dated November 22, 2005; and (b) the 
 
Recipient’s public sector institutions have started its implementation. 
 
Page  7
6
7. 
The Recipient’s National Assembly has approved a budget for calendar year 
 
2006, consistent with Poverty Reduction Expenditures of the Non-Financial 
 
Public Sector, equal to at least 13.6 percent of the Recipient’s gross domestic 
 product 
(GDP). 
 
8. 
The Recipient has reached a level of execution of the Poverty Reduction 
 
Expenditures during the first calendar semester of 2006 of at least 40 percent of 
 
the total amount budgeted for 2006. 
 
Section II. 
Availability of Financing Proceeds
A. General. 
 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in 
accordance with the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as 
the Association may specify by notice to the Recipient. 
 
B. 
Allocation of Financing Amounts.
 
The Financing shall be withdrawn in a 
single tranche.  The allocation of the amounts of the Financing to this end is set 
out in the table below: 
 
Allocations
Amount of the 
Financing Allocated 
(expressed in SDR
)
Single Tranche 
 
16,830,000 
 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 16,830,000 
C. 
Deposits of Financing Proceeds
 
1. 
The Recipient shall open, prior to furnishing to the Association the first request 
 
for withdrawal from the Financing Account, and thereafter maintain a deposit 
 
account in Dollars (“Deposit Account”) on terms and conditions satisfactory to 
 the 
Association. 
 
2. 
All withdrawals from the Financing Account shall be deposited by the 
 
Association into the Deposit Account. 
 
3. 
The Recipient shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the Financing 
 
into this account, an equivalent amount shall be deposited in the CUT and 
 
accounted for, in 
Córdobas
,
in the Recipient’s budget management system, in a 
 
manner acceptable to the Association.   
 
Page  8
7
D. Audit 
 
Upon t
he Association’s request, the Recipient shall: 
 
1. 
have the Deposit Account audited by independent auditors acceptable to the 
 
Association, in accordance with consistently applied auditing standards 
 
acceptable to the Association; 
 
2. 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than four 
 
months after the date of the Association’s request for such audit, a certified copy 
 
of the report of such audit, of such scope and in such detail as the Association 
 
shall reasonably request; and  
 
3. 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning the Deposit 
 
Account and their audit as the Association shall reasonably request. 
 
E. Excluded 
Expenditures
 
The Recipient undertakes that the proceeds of the Financing shall not be used to finance 
Excluded Expenditures. If the Association determines at any time that an amount of the 
Financing was used to make a payment for an Excluded Expenditure, the Recipient shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Association, refund an amount equal to the amount of 
such payment to the Association. Amounts refunded to the Association upon such request 
shall be cancelled.
 
F. 
Closing Date.  
The Closing Date is June 30, 2007. 
Page  9
8
SCHEDULE 2
 
Repayment Schedule 
 
Date Payment Due 
Principal Amount of the Credit 
repayable 
(expressed as a percentage)* 
 
On each February 15 and August 15: 
 
commencing February 15, 2017 to and including 
August 15, 2026 
1% 
commencing February 15, 2027 to and including 
August 15, 2046 
2% 
*The percentages represent the percentage of the principal amount of the Credit to be 
repaid, except as the Association may otherwise specify pursuant to Section 3.03 (b) of 
the General Conditions. 
 
Page  10
9
APPENDIX 
Section I.  Definitions 
 
1. 
“
Córdobas
”
means the national currency of the Recipient. 
 
2. 
“CUT” means the Recipient’s single treasury account (
Cuenta Unica del Tesoro
), 
as defined in article 100, of the Recipient’s Law No. 550 (Financial Management 
and Budget Regime Law). 
 
3. 
“Deposit Account” means the account referred to in Part C.1 of Section II of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
 
4. 
“DR-CAFTA” means the Dominican Republic-Central American-U S Free Trade 
Agreement, entered into among the Republic of Costa Rica, the Republic of 
Honduras, the Republic of Guatemala, the Republic of El Salvador, the Republic 
of Nicaragua, the Dominican Republic and the United States of America, on 
August 5, 2004. 
 
5. 
“Excluded Expenditure” means any expenditure: 
 
(a)  
for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Association or 
the Bank has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Association or 
the Bank has financed or agreed to finance under another Financing, 
credit, grant or loan; 
 
(b) 
for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard 
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published 
by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 
(1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or subgroups under future 
revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Association by notice to the 
Recipient: 
 
Group 
Sub-group 
Description of Item 
112  
Alcoholic 
beverages 
121 
 
Tobacco, un-manufactured, tobacco 
refuse 
122 
 
Tobacco, manufactured (whether or 
not containing tobacco substitutes) 
525 
 
Radioactive and associated materials 
667 
 
Pearls, precious and semiprecious 
stones, unworked or worked 
718 718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and parts thereof; 
fuel elements (cartridges), non-
irradiated, for nuclear reactors 
Page  11
10
Group 
Sub-group 
Description of Item 
728 
728.43 
Tobacco processing machinery 
897 
897.3 
Jewelry of gold, silver or platinum 
group metals (except watches and 
watch cases) and goldsmiths’ or 
silversmiths’ wares (including set 
gems) 
971 
 
Gold, non-monetary (excluding gold 
ores and concentrates) 
(c) 
for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
consumption; 
 
(d) 
for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of 
which is prohibited under the laws of the Recipient or international 
agreements to which the Recipient is a party; 
 
(e) 
on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United 
Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the 
United Nations; and 
 
(f) 
under a contract with respect to which the Association determines that 
corrupt, fraudulent, collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by 
representatives of the Recipient or other recipient of the Financing 
proceeds during the procurement or execution of such contract, without 
the Recipient (or other such recipient) having taken timely and 
appropriate action satisfactory to the Association to remedy the situation. 
 
6.  
“FOMAV” 
means 
the 
Fondo de Mantenimiento Vial
,
the
 
fund established by the 
Recipient for purposes of financing the maintenance of the Recipient’s roads 
pursuant to the Recipient’s Law No. 355, which was approved on June 29, 2000 
(as published in the Official Gazette No. 157 on August 21, 2000), as amended 
by Law No. 572, which was approved on December 13, 2005 (as published in the 
Official Gazette No. 249 on December 26, 2005), and Law No. 574 dated 
December 22, 2005 and published in the Recipient’s Official Gazette No. 250, 
dated December 27, 2005. 
 
7. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association 
General Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 with the 
modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix. 
 
8. 
“Non-Financial Public Sector” means the Recipient’s institutions defined in 
article 3 of the Recipient’s Law No. 550 (referred to in Section I.6(i) of Schedule 
1
to this Agreement) excluding the Recipient’s financial institutions as defined in 
article 4 (k) of the Recipient’s Law No. 550.   
Page  12
11
9. 
“Poverty Reduction Expenditures” means 
Gasto para la Reducción de la 
Pobreza
,
the Recipient’s public expenditures of the Non-Financial Public Sector 
aimed at reducing poverty, as defined in Annex II of the Recipient’s poverty 
reduction strategy paper entitled “National Development Plan”, dated November 
2005. 
 
10. 
“Program” means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to 
promote growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty and set forth or 
referred to in the letter dated September 26, 2006 from the Recipient to the 
Association declaring the Recipient’s commitment to the execution of the 
Program, and requesting assistance from the Association in support of the 
Program during its execution. 
 
11. 
“Single Tranche” means the amount of the Financing allocated to the category 
entitled “Single Tranche” in the table set forth in Part B of Section II of Schedule 
1
to this Agreement. 
 
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
The modifications to the “International Development Association General Conditions for 
Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 are as follows:   
1. 
The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for 
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety. 
2. 
Sections 2.04 (
Designated Accounts)
 and 2.05 (
Eligible Expenditures
)
are deleted 
in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered 
accordingly. 
3. 
Sections 4.01 (
Project Execution Generally
), and 4.09 (
Financial Management; 
Financial Statements; Audits
)
are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining 
Sections in Article IV are renumbered accordingly. 
4. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 4.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above 
and relating to 
Use of Goods, Works and Services
)
is deleted in its entirety. 
 
5. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 4.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 
above) is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 4.06. 
Plans; Documents; Records 
 
…
(c) 
The Recipient shall retain all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures 
under the Financing until two years after the Closing Date. The Recipient 
shall enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records.” 
Page  13
12
6. 
Section 4.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is modified to 
read as follows: 
 
Section 4.07. 
Program Monitoring and Evaluation 
 
…
(c)  
The Recipient shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six months after the Closing 
Date, a report of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall 
reasonably request, on the execution of the Program, the performance by 
the Recipient and the Association of their respective obligations under 
the Legal Agreements and the accomplishment of the purposes of the 
Financing. 
 
7. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or 
deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in 
alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered 
accordingly: 
 
(a) 
The definition of the term “Eligible Expenditure” is modified to read as 
follows:   
 
“‘Eligible Expenditure’ means any use to which the Financing is put in 
support of the Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded 
pursuant to the Financing Agreement.” 
 
(b) 
The term “Financial Statements” and its definition as set forth in the 
Appendix are deleted in their entirety. 
 
(c) 
The term “Project” is modified to read “Program” and its definition is 
modified to read as follows:  
 
“‘Program’ means the program referred to in the Financing Agreement in 
support of which the Financing is made.”  All references to “Project” 
throughout these General Conditions are deemed to be references to 
“Program”. 
 
