IOFFICtAL
DOCUMNTS
The World Ba nk                                 1818 H Street N.W.         (202) 477-1000
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT  4109I. ...1.,  .O..2OQ3  Cable Address: INTBAFRAD
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION           U.S.A.                     Cable Address: INDEVAS
May 7, 2012
Her Ex,.ellency
E. Viviaina Caro Hinojosa
Minister of Development Planning
Ministerio de Planificaci6n del Desarrollo
Avenid.. Mariscal Santa Cruz Esquina Oruro # 1092
Ex Edif cio Comibol,
La Paz. Bolivia
Re: Plurinational State of Bolivia: Credit No. 4365-BO (Municipality of La Paz
Secondary Education Transformation Project)
Third Amendment to the Financing Agreement/Amended and Restated Financing
Agreement
Excellency:
We refer to the Financing Agreement between the International Development Association
(the "Association") and the Plurinational State of Bolivia (the "Recipient") dated February 11,
2008, -is amended on April 21, 2009 and September 11, 2009, with respect to the above-captioned
Project ("Agreement").
Pursuant to your letter dated August 29, 2011 requesting the Association to amend the
Agreement, including extending the Project Closing Date, we are pleased to inform you that the
Associ;ition agrees to amend the terms of the Agreement as follows and as set forth in Attachment
A to this letter (the Amended and Restated Financing Agreement):
1.     The designation of "Republic of Bolivia" is hereby amended and replaced
throughout the Agreement by "Plurinational State of Bolivia".
2.     Part 1, 2 and 3 of Schedule 1 to the Agreement are hereby amended an replaced in
their entirety to read as follows:
"Part 1. Access to Education
Promote expanded coverage in primary and secondary education through:
a)     (i) the construction and equipping (with furniture, audiovisual and/or
computer equipment) of four new schools with classrooms, sanitary
facilities and administrative offices; and (ii) the construction of additional
classrooms in about twelve existing schools; and
b)    the development of an intervention providing direct pedagogical support
to At-Risk Studeiits in secondary education (grades 1-4) to ensure that
they remain in the education system to complete their studies and improve


﻿-2-
their critical thinking and communication skills, including the carrying out
of a targeted supplementary academic and skills-building course provided
by pedagogical experts and offered after school or as a complement to the
school day.
Part 2. Quality of Education
Support La Paz to improve the quality of education with a focus on primary and
secondary education through:
a)    the improvement of learning environments including, inter alia: (i) the
reconstruction and equipping (with furniture, audiovisual and/or computer
equipment) of three dilapidated school buildings, classrooms, sanitary
facilities and administrative offices; and (ii) the development of a
framework on school infrastructure maintenance that clarifies the roles
and responsibilities of La Paz, principals, teachers and students;
b)    the design and delivery of programs for secondary education (grades 3-6)
teachers, school directors, and representatives from the Juntas Escolares
on civic values-related issues defined by La Paz, including gender equity,
health and sexuality, multiculturalism, emotional intelligence and proper
care of school buildings, through inter alia: (i) the development of a post-
graduate (Diploma) program for principals, teachers and staff of the
OMDH education unit; (ii) the carrying out of workshops for teachers,
administrators, members of the Juntas Escolares and parents addressing
the above issues; (iii) the development of dialogue sessions and classroom
projects with students; (iv) the publication of a small series of booklets
covering the awareness programs themes; and (v) the development of an
interactive website for use by teachers, directors, parents and students;
c)    the establishment of a Center of High Performance (CARE) to provide
access to science and computer labs, learning materials, and carry out
awareness-raising workshops and pedagogical reinforcement to At-Risk
Students through the financing of the CARE operational costs and the
provision of goods; and
d)    the design and implementation of annual school level strategic plans,
including: (i) the carrying out of training and support to school
management committees in the development of the School Improvement
Plans (SIPs); (ii) the development of a manual outlining the basic steps for
developing and implementing the SIPs; and (iii) the financing of SIPs
through: (A) the transfer of a School Grant to selected schools; or (B)
OMDH, as the case may be.
Part 3. Education Management and Institutional Strengthening
Strengthen management capacity at the municipal and school levels to facilitate
actions to improve access to and completion of a quality secondary education,
through:


﻿-3 -
a)     (i) the adaptation of the SIMAF; (ii) the provision of equipment,
materials, and consultants necessary for carrying out Project management
and implementation; (iii) the financing of operational costs related to
Project implementation; and (iv) the contracting of auditing services to
carry out annual Project audits;
b)     the design and implementation of an impact evaluation of Part 1 (b)
activities to measure their effects; and
c)     the strengthening of La Paz's capacity to enhance its financial and
accounting practices, revise its procurement and financial management
norms in accordance with international standards, and carry out other
activities related to improving its performance in the education sector,
including: (i) the purchasing of equipment and furniture for the OMDH
education unit; (ii) the provision of technical assistance for professional
development for the OMDH education unit staff; and (iii) the design and
implementation of an informational campaign publicizing the Project and
its activities, including the establishment and maintenance of a webpage
publicly accessible."
3.     Section I. C.2 (f) of Schedule 2 to the Agreement is hereby amended and replaced
in its entirety to read as follows:
"(f)   methodology for the calculation of the fee for teachers participating in the
At-Risk Students program to ensure service sustainability of the activities
under Part I (b) of the Project;"
4.     Section 1.C.2 (h) of Schedule 2 to the Agreement is hereby amended and replaced
in its entirety to read as follows:
"(h)   the Environmental Management Plan."
5.     Section IV.A.2 and 3 of Schedule 2 to the Agreement is hereby amended and
replaced in its entirety to read as follows:
"2.    The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that
may be financed out of the proceeds of the Financing ("Category"), the
allocations of the amounts of the Credit to each Category, and the
percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible Expenditures in
each Category:


﻿-4-
Amount of the Credit Percentage of Expenditures
Allocated              to be Financed
Category             (expressed in SDR)       (inclusive of Taxes)
(1) Goods, works, consultants'      4,186,000                 100%
services, and Training under
Part I of the Project
(2) Goods, works, consultants'      1,501,000                 100%
services, Training and Center
of High Performance
Operational Costs under Part 2
of the Project which are not
otherwise covered under
Category (3) below.
(3) School Grants under Part 2        165,900        100% of the cost of goods,
of the Project                                      works, consultants' services
and training financed by the
respective School Grants
(4) Goods, works, consultants'        435,000                 100%
services, and Training under
Part 3 of the Project
(5) Operational Costs under           176,000                 100%
Parts 1, 2 and 3 of the
Project
(6) Unallocated                       36,100
TOTAL AMOUNT                     6i5Q0AOQ
6.     For purposes of the table in paragraph 2 above, the terms:
(a)    "Training" means reasonable expenditures (other than those for
consultants' services) incurred by La Paz for the purposes of the Project
and directly related to training activities described in the Project,
including, inter alia, costs related to workshops, seminars, conferences,
study tours, training registration fees, facility rentals, and travel costs and
per diems for La Paz civil service officials or employees;
(b)    "Operational Costs" means reasonable recurrent expenditures (other than
those for consultants' services) incurred by La Paz for the purposes of the
Project and directly related to the activities described in the Project,
including, inter alia, office materials and supplies, transportation, phone
and fax charges, media campaigns, printing of materials and teachers'


﻿time devoted to the incentive program for At-Risk Students under Part I
(b) of the Project; and
(c)    "CARE    Operational Costs" means reasonable recurrent expenditures
(other than those for consultants' services) incurred by the CARE for the
purposes of the Project and directly related to the activities described in
the Project, including, inter alia, staff time, office materials and supplies,
transportation, phone and fax charges, media campaigns and printing of
materials."
7.     Section IV.B.2 of Schedule 2 to the Agreement is hereby amended and replaced
in its entirety to read as follows:
"2. The Closing Date is March 31, 2013."
8.     Section I. of the Appendix to the Agreement is hereby amended as follows:
(a)    The following definition is deleted (and the existing definitions are
consequently renumbered to keep the alphabetical order):
(i)    "Pedagogic Resource Platforms" or "PRPs" means a non-
governmental organization or private provider which delivers
complementary education services to students from La Paz
municipal schools network, selected to provide services under
Part 2 of the Project in accordance with the eligibility criteria set
forth in the Operational Manual."
(b)    The following definition is amended and replaced in its entirety to read as
follows:
(i)    "At-Risk Students" means the Recipient's students in secondary
education (grades 1-4) with a grade of 39 or less out of 70 points
in Mathematics or Language in the first quarter of the school
year."
(c)    The following definitions are added, placed in alphabetical order,(and the
existing definitions are consequently renumbered to keep the alphabetical
order) to read as follows:
(i)    "Center of High Performance" or "CARE" means a municipal
organization which delivers complementary education services to
students from La Paz municipal schools network, selected to
provide services under Part 2 of the Project in accordance with the
eligibility criteria set forth in the Operational Manual."


﻿-6-
(ii)   "Environmental Assessment" means the document prepared by La
Paz and made publicly available on July 6, 2007, which identifies
environmental impacts associated with the construction and
rehabilitation of new and existing schools, classrooms and other
facilities."
(iii)  "Environmental Management Plan" means Plan for the
Application of Environmental Monitoring (PASA), the plan
prepared by La Paz (and derived from the Environmental
Assessment disclosed July 6, 2007), dated August 26, 2008,
satisfactory to the Association, and published and made publicly
available      in         La        Paz's        website
http://wsservicios.lapaz.bo/normativa_extema/ConsultaExtema.as
px, which sets out the environmental protection/mitigation
measures applicable to the Project, including environmental
supervision, monitoring and evaluation procedures for the
Project."
(iv)   "OMDH" means Oficialia Mayor de Desarrollo Humano, the La
Paz Human Development Office, as per established by municipal
decree (Ordenanza Municipal) G.M.L.P no. 867/2006 (article 15),
and responsible for the execution of the Project."
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing amendment by signing, dating and
returning to us the enclosed copy of this amendment letter. This amendment letter shall be
executeA in two counterparts, each of which shall be an original. The provisions set forth herein
shall become effective upon receipt by the Association of a fully executed original of this
amendnent letter.


﻿-7-
Please also note that the restructuring paper dated April 11, 2012 will be disclosed on the
Bank's external website as per the Bank's policy on access to information.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Susan G. old ark
Di -ector
Country M age ent Unit
Bolivia, Chile, Ecuad , eru and Venezuela
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
AGREJ D:
PLURI NATIONAL STATE OF BOLIV [A
By:
(Authorizeh Representative)
Name:       F VNim   Caro Hinojosa
MNSTRA DE PLANIFCACION
Title:          DEL DESARROLLO
Date:       15    ACO   2012


﻿ATTACHMENT A
AMENDED AND RESTATED
CREDIT NUMBER 4365-BO
Financing Agreement
(Municipality of La Paz Secondary Education Transformation Project)
between
PLURINATIONAL STATE OF BOLIVIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated February 11, 2008, as amended on April 21, 2009 September 11, 2009,
and May 7,2012


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 4365-BO
FINANCING AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT dated February 11, 2008, as amended on April 21, 2009 and
September 11, 2009, and amended and restated on May 7, 2012, entered into between
PLURINATIONAL STATE OF BOLIVIA ("Recipient") and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION ("Association"). The Recipient and the Association
hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I - GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01.  The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
1.02.  Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in
the Appendix to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II- FINANCING
2.01.  The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a credit in an amount equivalent to six
million five hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 6,500,000)
(variously, "Credit" and "Financing") to assist in financing the project described
in Schedule 1 to this Agreement ("Project").
2.02.  The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03.  The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the
Unwithdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per
annum.
2.04.  The Service Charge payable by the Recipient on the Withdrawn Credit Balance
shall be equal to three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum.
2.05.  The Payment Dates are February 15 and August 15 in each year.
2.06.  The principal amount of the Credit shall be repaid in accordance with the
repayment schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.


﻿-2-
2.07.  The Payment Currency is Dollars.
ARTICLE III - PROJECT
3.01.  The Recipient declares its commitment to the objective of the Project. To this
end, the Recipient shall cause the Project to be carried out by La Paz in
accordance with the provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions.
3.02.  Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient
shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV - REMEDIES OF THE ASSOCIATION
4.01.  The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following:
(a)    La Paz shall have failed, in the opinion of the Association, to perform
any of its obligations under the Subsidiary Agreement.
(b)    The Procurement Supreme Decree has been amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to render its Article 10 ineffective, in
the opinion of the Association, and no provision analogous to such
Article 10 has been adopted to replace said provision.
(c)    The Subsidiary Agreement or any of its provisions have been amended,
suspended, abrogated, terminated or waived so as to affect materially and
adversely, in the opinion of the Association, the ability of La Paz to
perform its obligations as contemplated under the provisions of this
Agreement.
4.02.  The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following, namely that any
event specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs and is continuing for a
period of 60 days after notice of the event has been given by the Association to
the Recipient.
ARTICLE V - EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
5.01.  The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely, that
the Subsidiary Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Recipient and La
Paz.


﻿-3 -
5.02. The Additional Legal Matter consists of the following, namely, that the
Subsidiary Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the Recipient and
La Paz and is legally binding upon the Recipient and La Paz in accordance with
its terms.
5.03.  Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness
Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, but in no
case later than the eighteen (18) months after the Association's approval of the
Credit which expire on April 9, 2009.
5.04.  For purposes of Section 8.05 (b) of the General Conditions, the date on which the
obligations of the Recipient under this Agreement (other than those providing for
payment obligations) shall terminate is twenty years after the date of this
Agreement.
ARTICLE VI - REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01.  The Recipient's Representative is its Minister of Development Planning.
6.02. The Recipient's Address is:
Ministerio de Planificaci6n del Desarrollo
Viceministerio de Inversi6n Publica y Financiamiento Externo (VIPFE)
Palacio de Comunicaciones, Piso 11
La Paz, Bolivia
Facsimile:
011-591-2-231-7408 (with a copy to: 011-591-2-239-2891)
6.03. The Association's Address is:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable:              Telex:              Facsimile:
INDEVAS             248423 (MCI)        1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C.


﻿-4-
AGREED at the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day
and year first above written.
PLURINATIONAL STATE OF BOLIVIA
By /s/ Mario Gustavo Guzman Saldaia
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ C. Felipe Jaramillo
Authorized Representative


﻿-5 -
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to support La Paz's education strategy by: (i)
increasing access to secondary education for adolescents and young people and
improving their permanence in the education system; (ii) improving quality and relevance
of primary and secondary education; and (iii) strengthening La Paz's decentralized
education management capacity.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part 1. Access to Education
Promote expanded coverage in primary and secondary education through:
a)     (i) the construction and equipping (with furniture, audiovisual and/or computer
equipment) of four new schools with classrooms, sanitary facilities and
administrative offices; and (ii) the construction of additional classrooms in about
twelve existing schools; and
b)    the development of an intervention providing direct pedagogical support to At-
Risk Students in secondary education (grades 1-4) to ensure that they remain in
the education system to complete their studies and improve their critical thinking
and communication skills, including the carrying out of a targeted supplementary
academic and skills-building course provided by pedagogical experts and offered
after school or as a complement to the school day.
Part 2. Quality of Education
Support La Paz to improve the quality of education with a focus on primary and
secondary education through:
a)    the improvement of learning environments including, inter alia: (i) the
reconstruction and equipping (with furniture, audiovisual and/or computer
equipment) of three dilapidated school buildings, classrooms, sanitary facilities
and administrative offices; and (ii) the development of a framework on school
infrastructure maintenance that clarifies the roles and responsibilities of La Paz,
principals, teachers and students;
b)    the design and delivery of programs for secondary education (grades 3-6)
teachers, school directors, and representatives from the Juntas Escolares on civic
values-related issues defined by La Paz, including gender equity, health and
sexuality, multiculturalism, emotional intelligence and proper care of school
buildings, through inter alia: (i) the development of a post-graduate (Diploma)


﻿-6-
program for principals, teachers and staff of the OMDH education unit; (ii) the
carrying out of workshops for teachers, administrators, members of the Juntas
Escolares and parents addressing the above issues; (iii) the development of
dialogue sessions and classroom projects with students; (iv) the publication of a
small series of booklets covering the awareness programs themes; and (v) the
development of an interactive website for use by teachers, directors, parents and
students;
c)    the establishment of a Center of High Performance (CARE) to provide access to
science and computer labs, learning materials, and carry out awareness-raising
workshops and pedagogical reinforcement to At-Risk Students through the
financing of the CARE operational costs and the provision of goods; and
d)    the design and implementation of annual school level strategic plans, including:
(i) the carrying out of training and support to school management committees in
the development of the School Improvement Plans (SIPs); (ii) the development
of a manual outlining the basic steps for developing and implementing the SIPs;
and (iii) the financing of SIPs through: (A) the transfer of a School Grant to
selected schools; or (B) OMDH, as the case may be.
Part 3. Education Management and Institutional Strengthening
Strengthen management capacity at the municipal and school levels to facilitate actions to
improve access to and completion of a quality secondary education, through:
a)     (i) the adaptation of the SIMAF; (ii) the provision of equipment, materials, and
consultants necessary for carrying out Project management and implementation;
(iii) the financing of operational costs related to Project implementation; and (iv)
the contracting of auditing services to carry out annual Project audits;
b)    the design and implementation of an impact evaluation of Part 1 (b) activities to
measure their effects; and
c)    the strengthening of La Paz's capacity to enhance its financial and accounting
practices, revise its procurement and financial management norms in accordance
with international standards, and carry out other activities related to improving its
performance in the education sector, including: (i) the purchasing of equipment
and furniture for the OMDH education unit; (ii) the provision of technical
assistance for professional development for the OMDH education unit staff; and
(iii) the design and implementation of an informational campaign publicizing the
Project and its activities, including the establishment and maintenance of a
webpage publicly accessible.


﻿-7-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I.    Implementation Arrangements
A.     Subsidiary Agreement
1.     To facilitate the carrying out of the Project, the Recipient shall make the proceeds
of the Financing available to La Paz through a subsidiary agreement between the
Recipient and La Paz, under terms and conditions approved by the Association
("Subsidiary Agreement").
2.     The Recipient shall create all of the necessary conditions for La Paz to comply
with its obligations under the Subsidiary Agreement.
3.     The Recipient shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Agreement in such a
manner as to protect the interests of the Recipient and the Association and to
accomplish the purposes of the Financing. Except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Recipient shall not assign, amend, abrogate, waive or fail to
enforce any Subsidiary Agreement or any of its provisions.
4.     In the case of a conflict between the provisions of the Subsidiary Agreement and
the provisions of this Agreement, the Recipient will ensure that the provisions of
this Agreement will prevail.
B.     Institutional and Other Arrangements
1.     The Recipient shall cause La Paz to carry out the Project in accordance with the
provisions of:
(a)    this Agreement;
(b)    the Subsidiary Agreement; and
(c)    the Operational Manual.
2.     At all times during the execution of the Project, La Paz shall maintain within its
public administration, a qualified team responsible for the implementation of the
Project, with staffing, functions and responsibilities satisfactory to the
Association, including the following responsibilities:
(a)    overall planning, coordination and monitoring of Project activities;
(b)    the updating of the Procurement Plan and the elaboration of the annual
implementation plan; and


﻿-8-
(c)    the preparation of consolidated financial reports and the contracting of
external audits.
3.     La Paz shall obtain the Association's no-objection for the hiring of the following
staff which shall be part of the team referred to in paragraph 2 above: (i) one
Project coordinator; (ii) one financial management specialist; (iii) one
procurement specialist; (iv) one pedagogic assistant; (v) one information
technology assistant; (vi) three monitoring and evaluations assistants; and (vii)
two civil works assistants.
C.     Operational Manual
1 .    The Recipient shall cause La Paz to carry out the Project in accordance with the
terms of a manual satisfactory to the Association (the Operational Manual).
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall not amend,
waive or fail to enforce the Operational Manual or any provision thereof. In case
of any conflict between the terms of this Agreement and those of the Operational
Manual, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail.
2.     The Operational Manual shall include provisions detailing procedures and
guidelines for the carrying out of the Project, including, inter alia:
(a)    the procedures for the preparation, review and approval of reports
pursuant to the Project's financial management arrangements;
(b)    procurement and contracting procedures consistent with Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, to be applicable to the contracts for the works, goods,
and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit;
(c)    Project impact and implementation indicators and the procedures for the
monitoring and evaluation of the Project, including the provisions of
Section II of Schedule 2 to this Agreement;
(d)    the procedures for the Recipient's preparation, review and approval of
Credit proceeds withdrawal applications to the Association, in
conformity with the instructions that the Association may give to the
Recipient in this respect;
(e)    a model of the School Agreement;
(f)    methodology for the calculation of the fee for teachers participating in
the At-Risk Students program to ensure service sustainability of the
activities under Part 1 (b) of the Project;


﻿-9-
(g)    the School Improvement Plan Manual; and
(h)    the Environmental Management Plan.
D.     Anti-Corruption
The Recipient shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
E.     Other Covenants
(a) No excavations or any other type of works under the Project shall be carried
out unless the acquisition process of the land sites has been carried out in a
manner satisfactory to the Association.
(b) The Recipient shall make sure that there is not any resettlement of people,
businesses or livelihoods caused by the Project activities.
(c) For purposes of the carrying out of any of the School Improvement Plans
under Part 2 (d) of the Project, the Recipient shall cause La Paz to enter into
arrangements with the school director (the School Agreement) providing,
inter alia, for: (i) the terms and conditions of the transfer of funds (the School
Grant) from La Paz to such school director for the financing of the School
Improvement Plan; and (ii) the obligation of the school director to carry out
the School Improvement Plan in accordance with the provisions of the
School Improvement Plan Manual.
Section II.   Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation
A.     Project Reports
The Recipient shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare
or cause to be prepared Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of
Section 4.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of the Indicators. Each
Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall be
furnished to the Association not later than one month after the end of the period
covered by such report. The Recipient shall review the most recent Project
Report with the Association during the Association's semi-annual meetings with
the Recipient, or on such later dates as the Association may request.


﻿- 10-
B.     Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
1.     The Recipient shall maintain (or cause to be maintained) a financial management
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.09 of the General
Conditions.
2.     The Recipient shall prepare (or cause to be prepared) and furnish to the
Association not later than 45 days after the end of each calendar quarter, interim
un-audited financial reports for each Part of the Project covering the calendar
quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association.
3.     The Recipient shall have (or cause to have) the Financial Statements audited in
accordance with the provisions of Section 4.09 (b) of the General Conditions.
Each audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of
the Recipient. The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be
furnished to the Association not later than six months after the end of such
period.
Section III.  Procurement
A.     General
1.     Goods and Works. All goods and works required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance
with the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement
Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section.
2.     Consultants' Services. All consultants' services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance
with the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the
Consultant Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section.
3.     Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Association of
particular contracts, refer to the corresponding method described in the
Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be.
B.     Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works
1.    International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis
of International Competitive Bidding.
2.     Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works. The following table
specifies the methods of procurement, other than International Competitive


﻿- 11 -
Bidding, which may be used for goods and works. The Procurement Plan shall
specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used:
Procurement Method
(a)  National Competitive Bidding, subject to the
additional provisions set forth in Section I of Annex
A to this Schedule 2.
(b)  Shopping.
C.     Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services
1 .    Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection.
2.     Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services. The following table
specifies methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection,
which may be used for consultants' services. The Procurement Plan shall specify
the circumstances under which such methods may be used.
Procurement Method
(a)  Quality-based Selection.
(b)  Selection under a Fixed Budget.
(c)  Least Cost Selection.
(d)  Selection Based on Consultant's Qualifications.
(e)  Single Source Selection.
(f)  Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of
the Consultant Guidelines for the Selection of
Individual Consultants.
(g)  Sole Source Procedures for the Selection of
Individual Consultants.


﻿- 12 -
D.     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.     The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be
subject to the Association's Prior Review. All other contracts shall be
subject to Post Review by the Association.
2.     Annual Procurement Audits. The Recipient shall cause La Paz:
(a)    not later than November 30 of each year during the implementation of
the Project, beginning on November 30, 2008, to contract independent
auditors of experience and qualifications satisfactory to the Association,
operating under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, to
perform a procurement audit of all the procurement records and
documentation for the Project, relating to the Recipient's previous fiscal
year of implementation of the Project, in accordance with procurement
auditing principles acceptable to the Association ("Procurement Audit");
(b)    not later than June 30 of each year during the implementation of the
Project, beginning on June 30, 2009 and continuing for each year
thereafter during the implementation of the Project, to furnish to the
Association the report, in form and substance satisfactory to the
Association, on the Procurement Audit completed for the Recipient's
prior fiscal year;
(c)    at all times during the implementation of the Project, to furnish to the
Association and to the auditors performing a Procurement Audit such
other  information  concerning  the  procurement  records  and
documentation for the Project as the Association or the auditors may
from time to time reasonably request; and
(d)    not later than August 30 of each year during the implementation of the
Project, beginning on August 30, 2009, to exchange views with the
Association on the results of the Procurement Audit completed for the
Recipient's prior fiscal year and thereafter implement such recommended
measures, taking into account the Association's views on the matter.
Section IV.   Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Financing
A.     General
1. The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with
the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such
additional instructions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Recipient
(including the "World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects" dated May
2006, as revised from time to time by the Association and as made applicable to


﻿- 13 -
this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as
set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.
2.     The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Financing ("Category"), the allocations of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category:
Amount of the Credit Percentage of Expenditures
Allocated             to be Financed
Category                  (expressed in SDR)       (inclusive of Taxes)
(1) Goods, works, consultants'     4,186,000                100%
services, and Training under
Part 1 of the Project
(2) Goods, works, consultants'     1,501,000                100%
services, Training and Center
of High Performance
Operational Costs under Part 2
of the Project which are not
otherwise covered under
Category (3) below
(3) School Grants under Part 2       165,900        100% of the cost of goods,
of the Project                                     works, consultants' services
and training financed by the
respective School Grants
(4) Goods, works, consultants'       435,000                100%
services, and Training under
Part 3 of the Project
(5) Operational Costs under          176,000                100%
Parts 1, 2 and 3 of the Project
(6) Unallocated                      36,100
TOTAL AMOUNT                    6,500,000


﻿- 14 -
3.     For purposes of the table in paragraph 2 above, the terms:
(a)    "Training" means reasonable expenditures (other than those for
consultants' services) incurred by La Paz for the purposes of the Project
and directly related to training activities described in the Project,
including, inter alia, costs related to workshops, seminars, conferences,
study tours, training registration fees, facility rentals, and travel costs and
per diems for La Paz civil service officials or employees;
(b)    "Operational Costs" means reasonable recurrent expenditures (other than
those for consultants' services) incurred by La Paz for the purposes of
the Project and directly related to the activities described in the Project,
including, inter alia, office materials and supplies, transportation, phone
and fax charges, media campaigns, printing of materials and teachers'
time devoted to the incentive program for At-Risk Students under Part I
(b) of the Project; and
(c)    "CARE    Operational Costs" means reasonable recurrent expenditures
(other than those for consultants' services) incurred by the CARE for the
purposes of the Project and directly related to the activities described in
the Project, including, inter alia, staff time, office materials and supplies,
transportation, phone and fax charges, media campaigns and printing of
materials.
B.     Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1. Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawals shall be
made:
(a)    for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,300,000
equivalent may be made for payments made one year prior to such date
but in no case before July 20, 2007 for Eligible Expenditures.
(b)    for payments under Category (3) of the table above unless: (i) La Paz has
issued a School Improvement Plan Manual satisfactory to the
Association; and (ii) La Paz has entered into the School Agreement with
the school director receiving the School Grant in question.
2.     The Closing Date is March 31, 2013.


﻿- 15 -
Annex A
to
SCHEDULE 2
Additional Provisions Relating to
Particular Methods of Procurement
Section I.   Goods and Works
Without limitation upon the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement or the
Procurement Guidelines, the following additional provisions shall apply to all goods and
works procured for the Project (pursuant to Section III.A. 1 of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement) under contracts awarded on the basis of National Competitive Bidding
("NCB Contracts"):
1.    A merit point system shall not be used in the pre-qualification of bids.
2.     The award of goods and works contracts shall be based exclusively on price and,
whenever appropriate, shall also take into account factors similar to those
referred to in paragraph 2.51 of the Guidelines, provided, however, that the bid
evaluation shall always be based on factors that can be quantified objectively,
and the procedure for such quantification shall be disclosed in the invitation to
bid.
3.     The Recipient shall open all bids at the stipulated time and place in accordance
with a procedure satisfactory to the Association.
4.     The Recipient shall use a single envelope procedure.
5.     Whenever there is a discrepancy between the amounts in figures and in words of
a bid, the amounts in words shall govern.
6.     Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the bidding process shall not be
declared void if only three (3) bids or less have been submitted unless such bids
have been determined not to be responsive.
7.     Any standards and technical specifications (quoted in the bidding documents)
that are at least substantially equivalent to the national standards and technical
specifications shall be acceptable.
8.     Foreign bidders shall be allowed to participate.


﻿- 16-
9.     Foreign bidders shall not be required to legalize any documentation related to
their bids with Bolivian authorities as a prerequisite for bidding.
10.    No margin of preference shall be granted for any particular category of bidders.
11.    The auction procedure (Puja Abierta) shall not be used.
12.   In the event that a bidder whose bid was evaluated as the bid with the lowest
evaluated price withdraws its bid, the contract may be awarded to the second
lowest responsive evaluated bid.
13.    Foreign bidders shall not, as a condition for submitting bids, be required to enter
into a joint venture agreement with local bidders.
14.    No other procurement rules or regulations of the Recipient's agencies or of any
state-owned entity shall apply without the prior review and consent of the
Association.
Section II.   Selection of Consultant Services
Without limitation upon the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement or the Consultant
Guidelines, the following additional provisions shall apply to all consultants' services
procured for the Project (pursuant to Section III.A.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement):
1.     As a condition for participating in the selection process, foreign consultants shall
not be required to enter into a joint venture agreement with local consultants,
unless the conditions stated in paragraph 1.12 of the Consultant Guidelines are
met.
2.     As a condition for participating in the selection process, foreign consultants shall
not be required to legalize their proposals or any documentation related to such
proposals with the Recipient's authorities.
3.     Foreign consultants shall not be required to be registered in the Recipient's
National Registry of Consultants (Registro Nacional de Consultoria).


﻿- 17-
SCHEDULE 3
Repayment Schedule
Principal Amount of the Credit
Date Payment Due                                repayable
(expressed as a percentage)*
On each February 15 and August 15:
Commencing February 15, 2018                1.25%
to and including August 15, 2027.
Commencing February 15, 2028, to and including  2.5%
August 15, 2042.
* The percentages represent the percentage of the principal amount of the Credit to be
repaid, except as the Association may otherwise specify pursuant to Section 3.03 (b) of
the General Conditions.


﻿- 18-
APPENDIX
Section I.   Definitions
1.    "Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means the "Guidelines on Preventing and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits and Grants", dated October 15, 2006.
2.     "At-Risk Students" means the Recipient's students in secondary education
(grades 1-4) with a grade of 39 or less out of 70 points in Mathematics or
Language in the first quarter of the school year.
3.     "Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
4.     "Center of High Performance" or "CARE" means a municipal organization
which delivers complementary education services to students from La Paz
municipal schools network, selected to provide services under Part 2 of the
Project in accordance with the eligibility criteria set forth in the Operational
Manual.
5.     "Consultant Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in May 2004 and
revised in October 2006.
6.     "Environmental Assessment" means the document prepared by La Paz and made
publicly available on July 6, 2007, which identifies environmental impacts
associated with the construction and rehabilitation of new and existing schools,
classrooms and other facilities.
7.     "Environmental Management Plan" means Plan for the Application of
Environmental Monitoring (PASA), the plan prepared by La Paz (and derived
from the Environmental Assessment disclosed July 6, 2007), dated August 26,
2008, satisfactory to the Association, and published and made publicly available
in                 La                  Paz's                 website
http://wsservicios.lapaz.bo/normativa_externa/ConsultaExtema.aspx, which sets
out the environmental protection/mitigation measures applicable to the Project,
including environmental supervision, monitoring and evaluation procedures for
the Project.
8.     "General Conditions" means the "International Development Association
General Conditions for Credits and Grants", dated July 1, 2005 (as amended
through October 15, 2006).


﻿- 19 -
9.     "Indicators" means the impact and implementation indicators set forth in the
Operational Manual.
10.    "Juntas Escolares" means school level teams responsible for the oversight of
school operations comprised of the principal of the school and representatives of
teachers, parents and students.
11.    "La Paz" means the Municipality of La Paz in the territory of the Recipient as
established in the Recipient's Law No. 2028, dated October 28, 1999.
12.    "NCB Contracts" has the meaning given to it in the first paragraph of Annex A
to Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
13.    "OMDH" means Oficialia Mayor de Desarrollo Humano, the La Paz Human
Development Office as per established by the municipal decree (Ordenanza
Municipal) G.M.L.P no. 867/2006 (article 15), and responsible for the execution
of the Project."
14.    "Operational Manual" means the manual referred to in Section I.C of Schedule 2
to this Agreement.
15.    "Procurement Audit" means the audit referred to in Section III.D.2 of Schedule
2 to this Agreement.
16.    "Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in
October, 2006.
17.    "Procurement Plan" means the Recipient's procurement plan for the Project,
dated July 18, 2007 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.
18.    "Procurement Supreme Decree" means the Recipient's Supreme Decree No.
27328 (Decreto Supremo No 27328) of January 31, 2004, as amended and as in
effect on the date of this Agreement.
19.    "School Agreement" means any of the agreements referred to in Section I.E.3 of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
20.    "School Grant" means any of the transfers of funds referred to in Section I.E.3
(a) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
21.    "School Improvement Plans" or "SIPs" means Plan(es) de Mejoramiento
Educativo(s), the plan(s) developed by the schools with the participation of the


﻿- 20 -
Juntas Escolares, which identifie(s) the actions to be taken by the school to
improve student learning.
22.    "School Improvement Plan Manual" means the Manual issued by La Paz on
August 13, 2007, which contains all the guidelines, eligible expenditures and
procurement procedures for the use of the School Grants.
23.    "SIMAF" means Sistemna Integrado de Control y Monitoreo para la
Administraci6n Financiera y Seguimiento de Proyectos, the Recipient's
integrated financial management system.
24.    "Subsidiary Agreement" means the agreement referred to in Section I.A. 1 of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement pursuant to which the Recipient shall make the
proceeds of the Financing available to La Paz.


