_7/   -4-    LI     X
Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
RCeP-1 t NO .:111 8-NT       Type: (SAR)
Ti tIle e:  SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT             Repont No. 11108-NI
Authcnr: DE GT. ANT(OINF, ii
Ex t. :3925f 1 Room: I7(7f Dept,: LA2M
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA
SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
OCTOBER 26, 1992
Country Department II
utman Resources Operations Division
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restdted ditributio ad may be usd by reipien only In the performanc Of
their officia duties. Its contents may not othewie be discosed without World Bank akuthi soriuL.



CURRENCY AND EOUIVALENT UNITS
US$1 - 5 NJ.caragua C6rdoba (C$)
SDR1.O - US$1.451
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 Hectare (ha) - 10,000 m2
1 Metric Ton (mt) = 1,000 kg
1 Kilometer (km) = 1,000 m
1 Cubic Meter (m3) - 1,000 liters (1)
1 Liter (1) - 1,000 milliliters (ml)
GLOSSARY OF ACRONYMS
CIDA   Canadian International Development Agency
DANIDA  Danish International Development Agency
FISE   Social Investn:ent Fund (Fondo de Inversiones Social de
zmergencia)
GDP  Gross Domestic Product
GNP  Gross National Product
GON  Government of Nicaragua
ICB  International Competitive Bidding
IDA   International Development Association
IDB   Inter-American Development Bank
INAA  Nicaraguan Institute for Water and Sewerage (Instltuto de
Acueductos y Alcantarill^4os)
INEC  National Institute of Statistics and Census (Instituto
Nacional de Estadisticas y Censos)
INIFOM   Institute for Municipal Development (Instltuto
Nkfaraguense de Fomento Municipal)
LCB  Local Competitive Bidding
KfW  German Credit Institute for Reconstruction
LSMS   Living Standards Measurement Survey
MEC  Ministry of External Cooperation
MIS  Management Information System
MOE  Ministry of Education
MOF  Ministry of Finance
MOH  Ministry of Health
NGO Non-Governmental Organization
PHC  Primary Health Care
PRRN National Reconciliation and Rehabilitation Programme
(Programa de Reconciliaci6n y Rehabilitacidn Nacional)
SOE   Statement of Expenditure
UN United Nations
UNDP  United Nations Development Programme
USAID  United States Agency for International Development
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
NICARAGUA
SOCIAINVESTENT FUND PROJECT
STF APPRAISAL  PORT
TABLE OFCONTES
CREDIT AND nPECT MOIARY  .... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  .   £
1.= E N   ............................................... 
It. TIE W&NICAAGUA  ECONOMIC REFORM PROGAM AND. POVERTY ALLEVIATION . . .   1
TheconomicReformProgram   . ..          .... . . a ............       1
PovertyinNicaragua  ....  .  .  . ..................................   2
Goverment strategy . . . . . . . . .*. . . . . . .   . . * * * * * *   4
DonorActivities  . . . . . . . . .   . .   . *. . . . . . . . . . . . .   S
IDA Country and Sector Assistance Strategy  . . . a..   . ..   . . . ..  6
Rationale for IDA Involvement. .................            . ........    7
Lessons Learned from Bank Experience with Social Investment Funds .   7
ii. THE ICARAGUAN SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND . . . . . . . . . . .. . . .   9
In atitutiottal Poorm   *  .......................................................9
Performance in 1991 and 1992 and Needs for Improvement  . . . . . .   9
Future Objectives and Approach  ............................  . ....     11
Targeting of Funds  . . . . . . . .   .      . . * . . *. . .. ..  . . . .a   13
Organization and Staffing. .. .  .  .  .  .  .  .    ............. ..... .  14
Technical Assistance  . . . .  .  . .. .... .. . ...... ... . .. ..   14
Program Targets and Operating Capacity  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  15
Major Participants in VISE Projects . ............. ....   15
Project Promotion, Identification, and Preparation  . .  .  . . . .    16
Project Appraisal . . . . ....... ... ... .   ... .                  16
Project Approval  .. . . ..      .*.*...   ..... .                   17
Project Implementation and Supervision  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  17
Coordination with Ministries              ...................   17
Subproject Sustainability                                            is44444    18
Management    lnform.tinSyetem...................   19
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Nicaragua in June 1992. Mission members were J.J. de Saint Antoine, A.M.
Arriagada, (Task Managers) K. Scott, C. Hurtado, A. McLean, and E. Derbez
(Consultants). Messrs. Rainer B. Steckhan (LA2DR) and Kye Woo Lee (LA2HR) are
the Department Director and Division Chief, respectively, for this operation.
Peer reviewers are M. Crosh (LATHR) and C. Corbett (LASHR). Messrs. V. Nguyetn
and D. Dorkin contributed to the report at headquarters.
This document has a restultd distribution and may be used by reipients only In the peffomane
oftheir offici dutes, Its contents may not otherwibe be disclosedwithout World Bark authoiation.



IV.  THE PROJECT  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  19
Obesctiptlon    .  .  ...  .  .  .  .   . .  .  .  .  .   . .  .    .  .  .   .  .  .  .  .  .    .  .  19
On-Lending and Implementation Arrangements  . . . . . . . . . . . .  21
Costs and Financing Plan  . ....................    21
Procurement . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  23
Supervision and'Reporting .     ............ . . .....  ..   24
Disbursements . . . . . . . . . . * .. * a   * * a   *    * * a   * *  * *  25
Documentation of Expenditures..... . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  25
Accounts and Audts . ......................   26
Mid-Term Review . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . .  26
V.  B8NEFInt An  RISKS  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  27
Participation of Women  * .. ..................... .....  28
Risks ................................................................    28
VI.  AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION  . . . . . . . . . . . .  28
Recommendation                              . . . . . . . . . . .  .   30
Annexes
1.   Socioeconomic Indicators for Nicaragua
2.    Social Sector Policy Letter
3.    Organic Law of FISE
4.   Organization Chart of FISE
5.   Project Costs
6.    Financing Plan
7.   Disbursement Schedule
8.   Methods of Procurement
9.    Social and Economic Infrastructure Subprojects
10.   Social Services Subprojects
11.  Key Performance Indicators
12.   Living Standards Measurement Survey (LSMS)
13.   Technical Assistance to FISE
14.   Technical Assistance to Ministries of Health and Education
15.  Technical Assistance for Social Sector Budgeting and Financial
Management
16.   Terms of Reference for Mid-Term Review
17.   Documents included in the Project File
Havo - IBRD Nos. 23959 and 23960



SOCIAL INVESIMENT FUND PROJECT
STaIn APPRAISAL REPORT
CRKDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:               Republic of Nicaragua
Executina Asencies:     Social Investment Fund (FISH), National Institute of
Statistics and Census (INEC), Ministry of Health
(MOB), Ministry of Education (MOE), Ministry of
Finance (MOP)
Beneficiaries:          Low-income target groups in rural and urban poverty
areas through municipalities, NGOs and other entities
Amount:                 SDR17.3 million (US$25 million equivalent)
Terms:                  Standard IDA terms with 40 years maturity including 10
years of grace
Prolect Obiectives:     The project would help the Government sustain its
poverty alleviation efforts and maintain social
cohesion during the period of economic adjustment
until line ministries strengthc.z their institutional
capacities and complete policy reform programs. To
the extent feasible, the methods of operation,
procedures, and experience of FISE would be
transferred gradually to social ministries to help
them improve their efficiency and equity of service
delivery.
Proiect Descrintion:    The project would have four components:  (i) the
financing, through FISH, of a range of small-scale
subprojects in social and economic infrastructure and
social services (US$60.5 million, 89.01 of total
project cost); (ii) technical assistance to INEC to
implement a Living Standards Measurement Survey (LSMS)
program (US$0.9 million, 1.32); (iii) technical
assistance to strengthen the capacity of MOB and MOE
to prepare subprojects (US$1.8 million, 2.61); and
(iv) technical assistance to help the Government,
through the MOP, to improve budgeting and financial
mana8ement capacity in the social ministries (US$0.8
million, 1.2X). The operating costs of the executing
agencies (US$4.0 million, 5.91 of total project cost)
would be financed by the Government, IDB, and UNDP.
Benefitss               By transferring resources to poor urban and rural
communities in a decentralized manner with the
participation of municipalities, NGOs, and private
contractors, FISH would help: (i) prevent
deterioration in the living standards of the poor
during the period of economic adjustment; (ii) improve



basic health and education facilities currently
deteriorated and lacking basic equipment to operate;
(WIi) reduce incidence of water-borne dioesses by
expanding coverage of water and sanitation; (iv)
itprove health, nutrition, and literacy, particularly
among women and childrent and (v) strengthen the
Covernment experience with a de'entraliued mechanism
for delivering development assistance to
municipalities and small businesses and mobilizing
grassroots efforts, which could subsequently be used
by other agencies. Other project components would
provide long-term benefits bys (i) helping the
Goverment Improve its social sector management
capacity; and (it) strengthening social ministries'
capacity to prepare subprojects.
iuiVksa                 There is a risk that the Government may attempt to
Implement the PI8B program w±th excessive speed, and
project funds night be poorly used and diverted to
uses not envisaged In the project. The risk would be
reduced by establishing ceilings that would ensure
that the proportion of IDA funds to be disbursu,d
before the mid-term review would not exceed 552 of the
total Credit amount. A second risk is the inadequate
subproject preparation capacity of municipalities and
N00s. This will be addressed by FISK making
additional promotion efforts and providing subproject
preparation assistance. A third risk is the lack of
maitenance of physical facilities rehabilitated by
1183. This risk will be mitigated by FISE providing
ssis_tance to local comunities for maintenance of
subprojects.



Es.tiated Coats:                                      Zolef        bTotal
I.  FISK~ ~ ~ ~~~~  Mllo
A.   Subprojects                      45.5        15.0        60.5
B.   Operating Costs                   3.5         0.5         4.0
Subtotal F18S                         49.0        iS.S        64.5
II.   LOMB and FISK
Impact Rvaluation                      0.7         0.2         0.9
I1.  Tecical Assietance
to NON and MOE                         0.4         1.4         1.8
IV.   Technical Assistance for Social
Sector Reform Management               0.2         0.6         0.8
TOTAL PROJECT COSTJ/                  50.3        17.7        68.0
lume-itm Pleass                           IXocal      bu2tmtT
Governent of Nicaragu                        6.3         0.0         6.3
Beneficiaries                                3.1         0.0         3.1
IDA                                         18.2         6.8        25.0
1DB                                         10.4        5.6         16.0
Government of Germany (EN)                   9.0         4.0         13.0
Governmt of Switzerland                      2.5         1.0         3.5
MDDP                                         0.3         0.1          0.4
overmet of Japan                             O.S         0.2          0.7
TOTAL FIANCING                        50.3        17.7        68.0
h2"jQ!n}gbiA:   lUp to US$1.5 million equivalent wold be pemitted for
eligible expenditures incurred sice July 1, 1992.
LEstimated IDA Disburgomentss
IDA Fiscal Year                      1993        1912
* u11$ l;llon -
Annual                          5.01        13.0        7.0
Cumlstive                       5.0         18.0       2S.0
Economic Rate of Retlrns Not applicable
1/    Nlet of tazos and duties.
2/    Include, the initial deposit of US$2.5 million to the Special Accont
and US$1.5 million equivalet of retroactive financing for eligible
expenditures icurred since July 1, 1992.



SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
STACF APPRAISAL REPORT
I - INTRODUCTION
1.1. This report presents a Social Investment Fund (PISE) project for which
an IDA credit of SDR17.3 million (US$25 million equivalent) to the Republic of
Nicaragua is proposed. Total project cost is estimated at US$68.0 million
equivalent. FISE was created by the Government of Nicaragua (GON) in November
1990 to help alleviate poverty and maintain social cohesion during the period
of economic adjustment until line ministries strengthen their institutional
capacities and complete implementation of policy reform programs. FISE, which
was financed in its initial two years by the Government, ID2. USAID, UNDP, and
others, is gearing up for an expansion of its program.
1.2. This report discusses the GON's program to restructure the economy and
strategy to alleviate poverty, describes the FISE and other donors'
participation, proposes IDA's involvement in the expansion of the FISE
program, and provides the parameters for project implementation.
II. THE NICAGN ECONOMIC REFORM GRAM AND PER                LIATION
2.1. Nicaragua is one of Latin America's poorest countries, with a per capita
GDP estimated at less than US$400 in 1990, substantially lower than the US$850
level prevailing in the late 1970%. This decline is explained by the serious
economic deterioration resui:ing rrom the combined impact of inappropriate
macroeconomic policies, institutional changes toward a centra.lIy controlled
economy, ten years of continued civil strife, and a U.S. trade embargo. By
the end of the decade, production was well below the 1980 level, exports were
running at about half of the pre-1980 level, hyperinflation had reached
14,7002 in 1988, international reeerves were depleted, and erternal debt had
reached US$10 billion, equivalent to 27 times annual exportd and 7 times GDP.
The financial system, much of the productive structure, and external marketing
of the principal export products were in the hands of an oversized public
sector. What was left of the private sector, after extensive expropriations,
was heavily regulated, and productive capacity diminished for lack of
maintenancse and spare parts. Moreover, serious damage had been done to the
country's infrastructure.
The Economic Reform Program
2.2. Since March 1991, the GON has launched an economic stabilization
program, designed to eliminate hyperinflation, arrest the decline in GDP, and
strengthen the balance of payments through tight fiscal and monetary policies.
An initial step involved a 4001 devaluation of the c6rdobs. Following large
price adjustments in March and April 1991, the consumer price index declined
by an average of 1S per month beginning in May 1991. There was a moderate
recovery in the output of major consumer goods, certain industrial products
and public utilities. A drop in agricultural output due to a drought,
however, resulted in a decline of about 1S in CDP in 1991, and the expected



2
recovery of the external sector did not materialize due to the fall in the
value of its mwin exports, coffee and beef.
2.3. Fiscal adjustments played a leading role in achieving stabilixation,
with central governmont finances performlng better than expected. The fiscal
deficit of the non-financial public sector, excluding grants, was reduced from
292 of GDP in 1990 to 72 In 1991. After accounting for grants, this deficit
shifted to a 71 surplus. Current expenditures in the non-finencial public
sector were reduced from 452 of GDP in 1990 to 292 in 1991, following large
reductions in military and internal security outlays. The central government
wage bill was also reduced substantially, from 92 of GDP in 1990 to 62 in
1991, while central government tax revenue increased from 141 of GDP in 1990
to 191 in 1991. Tight monetary policy contributed to the stabilization
effort. Central Bank losses were cut from 142 of GDP in 1989 to 11 in 1991.
Credit to the private sector expanded modestly, but overall liquidity levels
were kept consistent with low inflation rates, and domestic bank credit
remained within the target levels by year-end.
2.4. In parallel with this stabilization effort, the GON began to implement a
comprehensive program of structural adjustment aimed at reorienting the
economy toward a competitive market system. The structural adjustment program
has addressed three main areas: pubic sector reforms, liberalization of
financial sector policies and regulations, and the incentives system. Key
barriers to private sector participation have been lifted and a trade
liberalization program is underway, including the elimination of public sector
monopolies on importing and exporting activities, and restored access to
foreign exchange by the private sector. To reduce the size and increase the
efficiency of the central government, public finances are being strengthened
through a complete overhaul of the tax system and substantial expenditure
reductions. The initial phase of a public employment reduction program has
been completed with the dismissal of 8,200 central government civilian
employees and demobilization of over 40,000 military personnel. In addition,
over 100 enterprises have been already privatized, reducing the share of
state-owned enterprises' production in GDP from 422 in 1990 to 252 in 1991.
2.5. The stabilization and adjustment program, despite Impressive
achievements and significant foreign aid, may have engendered significant
temporary social costs. Actually, lower GOB expenditures in real terms,
especially in health and education have already affected the availability of
social services. This affects the poor the most because they are the largest
recipients of primary health care (PNC) and primary education services. The
seriousness of such potential Impact, when viewed against the enormous
deterioration in the overall level of welfare over the last 15 years-with per
capita GDP declining to one-third its 1977 level-emphasizes the need for the
social sector to play a critical role, both to protect the most vulnerable
groups in the short term and to foster human resources as a basis for long-
term growth.
Poverty in Iicaramua
2.6. Nicaragua's GNP per capita of less than US$400 exceeds only that of
Guyana in the Western Hemisphera. A serious shortage of data exists in



3
Nicaragua, which makes an assessment of eresent conditions very difficult.l'
Under the propdsed project, a Living Standard Measurement Survey (LSMS) will
be financed which will monitor welfare levels and provide information on
topics such as employment and wages, use of health and education services,
nutrition, and cousumption and expenditure patterns (pars. 4.3). Available
data show that, whila social indicators have improved over the last 20 years,
they are still very low. Severe poverty affected 552 of the urban population
and over 852 of the rural population (1989). The poverty problem is
aggravated by the rapid population growth of 3.42 per year, due to a high
fertility rate (5.5 children per woman of childbearing age), the lweet level
of contraceptive prevalence in Central America (about 62), and low birth
spacing (see Annex 1 for general socio-economic indicators).
2.7. Health and nutrition indicators reflect the acute problems facing the
Nicaraguan poor: lack of potable water and sanitation, deficient hygiene and
dietary habits, '-u£fficient emphasis on preventive services at the primary
level of the healta system, and severe deterioration of PNC facilities.
Infant mortality is 72/1,000 live births due largely to diarrhea and acute
respiratory infections (together accounting for over 702 of infant deaths),
and about 15S of children are born underweight. In 1990, maternal mortality
was 159/100,000 live births. Nutritional deficiencies are a contributing
factor in about 702 of infant deaths, moderate and severe malnutrition affects
132 of the children younger than 5 years of age, and 222 of the children aged
6 to 9 suffer from stunting. Over 202 of urban households and over 802 of
rural households suffer from contaminated water. Coverage of sanitation is
considerably less, with 322 in urban areas and between 62 and 162 in rural
areas.
2.8. The statu6 of education in Nicaragua is also critical. Although school
enrollment indicators show good access to public schools (gross enrollment is
estimated at 1061 and not enrollment at about 802 in urban areas and 702 in
rural areas), the country has a 202 illiteracy rate. Repetition and dropout
rates are high, particularly between first and second grade (452 of first-
graders either repeat or drop out), with only 222 of those who enter first
grade completing sixth grade. The problem is even more acute in rural areas,
where only 72 of those who enter the first grade complete primary education.
Among the reasons for the low completion rates, particularly in rural. areass
352 of primary schools offer less than three grades (132 in urban schools),
and 192 of rural students attend multigrade classes. A factor that compounds
the above reason relates to the poor quality of the teaching-learning process,
the result of a lack of qualified teachers. At present, 552 and 232 of rural
and urban teachers, respectively, are "empprlcas", or unaccredited individuals
with an average of six years of schooling and little additional training.
These poor educational outcomas are the legacy of inadequate management and
inappropriate resource allocation within the sector, which have resulted in
low internal efficiency of the education system in general and of the primary
level in particular. The primary education systew currently suffers from a
11 The last population census was carried out in 1972, the latest
agricultural census dates from 1962, the latest household survey dates from
1985, a nutrition census dates from 1986, and the only recent household survey
(1989) was carried out only in Mnagusa. A national census of population and
housing ands national agricultural census are planned for November 1993.



1            ~~~~~4
severe deterioration of existing facilities, lack of water and sanitation
facilities in schools, particularly in rural areas, lack of school furniture
and equipment, and insufficient teaching-learning materials.
Govornment $trateav
2.9. The 00G has started to develop the main elements of a poverty
alleviation strategy, but has not yet prepared a comprehensive document
including the priorities and strategies of major ministries. However, the GON
is making progress toward the elaboration of a coherent social sector
strategy. The GON's fundamental goals for poverty alleviation are to decrease
child and maternal wortality, develop the human capabilities of the Nicaraguan
people, and enhance income earning opportunities for the lowest income groups.
The 00N attempts to implement a two-pronged phased strategy in the social
sectors. In the short term, priority is being given to the execution of
safety net programs, most notably the FISE, targeted to the most vulnerable
members of society and intended to prevent a deterioration in the already
precarious living standards of the poorest groups during the adjustment
period. FISE and other compensatory and poverty alleviation programs, such as
the National Reconciliation and Rehabilitation Programme (PRRN)ll and a small
number of well-targeted nutrition programs, are to provida a transitional
instrument for responding rapidly to a critical poverty situation until the
line ministries have been strengthened and project activities may be
reintegrated into their normal operations. More generally, to protect social
sector programs during the adjustment period, it is the GON's intention to
maintain the share of social expenditures in the budget roughly constant in
real terms, at one-third of public spending or about 10 of GDP, during the
1992-1995 period.
2.10. Eligible FISH subprojects include rehabilitation and equipment of
schools and health posts and centers, provision of water and sanitation
(mostly latrines and wells), provision of teaching materials and school
libraries, training for social servicee personnel, and support to child care
and nutrition programs. PFIS has worked closely with the Ministries of Health
(MOR) and Education (MOE) and with local communities in the definition of its
menu of subprojects, and is developing mechanisms with the line ministries to
ensure that these entities would provide staff, operating expenses, and
maintenance on a recurrent basis for social infrastructure rehabilitated vith
FISE financing.
2.11. The GOB recognizes that safety net programs, while crucial in the short
term, are not sufficient to resolve Nicaragua's chronic poverty. In addition,
the NY1 recognizes that social programs need revision to ensure that the most
vulnerable groups benefit, that programs are as cost-effective and efficient
as possible, and that they do not lead to duplication of efforts and
2/ In 1992, the G00 created the PRRN with the main objective to support
vulnerable population groups in regions affected by the war and help relocate
them into civilian society. The PRRN regroups several previously separate
programs and attempts to resolve earlier problems of overlaps and lack of
coordination between programs. The PRRN is administered by the Ministry of
the Prosidency, with support from the MOF and the Ministry of the Interior,
thus linking security, social, and economic sectors.



5
resources. Consequently, over the next months, with assistance from IDA, the
0ON plans to improve coherence and coordination of its social sector programs
by stating its social sector strategy in a policy document detailing policy
measures and priority programs to be pursued over the short and medium term,
and developing its capability to effectively coordinate and monitor the
implementation of its social sector strategy, including foreign assistance.
to increase its analytical capacity for social policy decision-making,
particularly for targeting poverty alleviation interventions and monitoring
their progress and impact, the GON would implement a system of monitoring
welfare levels based on the LSMS methodology developed by the World Bank
(paras. 4.3-4.4).
2.12. The GOV's strategy for the short and medium term is to develop and
implement a comprehensive social sector policy and reform program which would:
(i) improve policy formulation, sector management, and program coordination in
the social sectors? (ii) increase the efficiency and equity of social sector
programs by targeting domestic and external resources to PHC, primary
education, and water supply and sanitation (particularly in rural areas); and
(iii) help strengthen the institutional capacity of line ministries. The
development of the social sector reform program will be undertaken in two
phases. First, the GO has presented a social sector policy letter, dated
October 8, 1992, focusing on a short and medium term strategy and actions,
satisfactory to IDA (Annex 2). Second, using this letter as a point of
departure, the GON will subsequently formulate a comprehensive policy and
strategy document detailing priority programs and measures to be pursued over
the short and medium term, including an implementation plan. Presentation by
the GO of a draft social sector strategy document to IDA by May 31, 1993 will
be one of the monitoring indicators of the project, compliance with which will
be reviewed during the mid-term review (para. 4.33).
Donor Activities
2.13. Donors have made available substantial amounts to projects likely to
assist in poverty alleviation as well as to quick-disbursing balance of
payments support for implementing the macroeconomic reform process which is an
essential element in dealing with poverty in the medium to long term. Donor
support to the social sector in Nicaragua has grown rapidly since the present
Government took office. Foreign aid is making significant contributions to
health care by financing infrastructure, equipment, drugs, and medical
supplies, as well as operating costs. Foreign assistance was estimated at
over USs$3 million in 1991, raising public health spending by 39%. In the
education sector, foreign assistance for school rehabilitation, equipment, and
textbooks amounted US$7.7 million in 1991, which raised public education
spending by 9%.
2.14. While donor support for the social sector has been generous, the
effectiveness of foreign assistance is currently hampered by the limited
irstitutional capacity of line ministries. Major weaknesses are: (a) lack of
mechanisms to ensure the availability of counterpart funds as required by most
donors, without which the flow of aid is interrupted; (b) inadequate control
and coordination of foreign aid (as a large number of agreements bypass the
Ministry of External Cooperation (MEC)); and (c) recurrent cost implications
of the proposed investments for the SON budget have not been assessed, which
is particularly important in the social sector, since this is a field



6
Intensive in labor and operating inputs. In addition, the lack of a clearly
formulated sectoral policy and strategy has resulted in a multiplicity of
untargeted donor-financed programs. This has spread thin the institutional
capacity of the ministries and has produced less than satisfactory results.
Under the proposed project, technical assistance will be provided to help the
GON further refine and articulate its social sector policies and programs over
the short and medium term (para. 2.12 and Annex 13).
IDA Country and Sector Assistance Stratega
2.15. IDA country assistance strategy focuses ont (a) supporting the policy
reformse required to shift from a command to a market economy; (b) supporting
poverty alleviation efforts; (e) helping rebuild the institutions needed to
achieve these two objectives; td) addressing rehabilitation needs in key
sectors; and te) supporting efficient and effective use of external resources.
This strategy would be supported through an IDA credit program for FY92-96,
comprising three structural adjustment operations, and sectoral lending
operation combining rehabilitation needs, institutional strengthening and
policy reform in the social sectors, infrastructure, agriculture and the
environment. The strategy will also require extensive economic and sector
work to address the large gap in IDA's knowledge of Nicaragua after several
years of hiatus and to strengthen the project pipeline. A critical component
of the strategy will be aid coordination, focusing on: (i) obtaining
concessional co-financing and grants for projects supported under IDA credits;
(il) coordinating support with the multilateral and bilateral agetcies to
ensure the efficiency of aid flow and of their use; and (iii) helping to
organize and orient technical assistance to support the CON's adjustment
efforts. In order to enhance these undertakings, a Resident Mission was
established in Nicaragua in early 1992.
2.16. IDA's sectoral assistance strategy for the next five years consists of a
balanced and well focused program of sector work, lending, donor coordination,
techbical assistance, and supervision. A Social Sector Report (Report No.
10671-NI, dated August 3, 1992) carried out in close coordination with major
donors such as USAID and IDB reviews trends, programs and issues in the social
sector in Nicaragua, and formulates recommendations addressing the major
issues. IDA will assist the GON in developing and presenting its social
sector strategy to the international donor cowmunity once finalized (FY93) and
In coordinating donor assistance and supporting strategy implementation.
Based on the results of the LSM8 (para. 4.3), a poverty assessment will be
prepared in FY93. IDA's sector credit strategy will support GON programs both
In the short and medium term. In the short term, IDA would support the FISK
program, with special emphasis on the rehabilitation and equipment of PEC and
education facilities and the provision of water and sanitation facilities,
particularly in marginal urban and rural areas, and provide technical
assistance to strengthen the MOM and MNE (paras. 4.5 and 4.6). for the medium
term, IDA is preparing a health project to support health sector reforms and
strengthen the delivery of PHC services (FY94) together with USAID, IDB, and
the Danish International Development Agency (DANIDA). Both the proposed FISK
credit and the health project would include significant amounts or technical
assistance and would require intense supervision by IDA.



7
Rationale for IDA Involvement
2.17. Through its economic and sector work, IDA has been trying to help the
GO develop a coherent social sector policy and introduce sectoral policy
reforms. This strategy would encompass safety net and broad sector reform
programs to Increase the efficiency and equity of social services, with
particular attention to improving the quality and efficiency of primary
health, primary education, and nutrition services provision. In February
1992, a draft of the Social Sector Report (para. 2.15) was discuesed vith the
005, which is being used to define an overall pozerty alleviation policy
frsaework and sectoral strategies, particularly for the health and education
sectors. The GO policy letter (Annex 2) includes a number of actions to be
undertaken in the short and med±um term, progress in the implementation of
which will be monitored at the mid-term review.
2.18. The proposed project grew out of the above mentioned sector work and the
1DB, USAID, and UNDP experience with FIS to date. While its initial success
supported the notion that the FPIS should and could implement a larger program
if further strengthened, available funds would be fully committed by December
1992. The proposed project would build on the early performance of FISE
(paras. 3.4-3.6) and would help improve its operations. It would help the ON
strengthen its poverty alleviation efforts during the adjustment period and
assist line ministries to improve their institutional capacities and complete
their policy reform programs. The proposed FISE project would complement
activities to be implemented under the IDA Health project under preparation
and the USAID PlC and primary education projects. In addition, it would
support the MOM and MOE's efforts to develop their planning and project
preparation capacity.
2.19. IDA support for FISK is considered critical to ensure that: (a) the
C0N's stabilization and adjustment programs, for which IDA has mobilized and
coordinated international donors' support, are carried out with social
cohesion and support to the poor; (b) lessons learned by IDA in similar
projects in other countries (e.g., Bolivia and Honduras) are properly
transferred to FIS; (c) sufficient concessional funds are mobilized from the
international donor community to help the GON continue with its safety net
programs; and (d) the FISK project is defined within a consistent and well-
'ocused overall social strategy framework.
Lessons Learned from Bank Kinerience with Social Investment Punds
2.20. The following lessons learned from IDA's experience with Social
Investment Funds (SIFs) were taken into consideration in the design of the
proposed projects
(a) SIFs should be designed as semi-autonomous orQanizatlons to:
(i)  eliminate or at least sharply reduce political influence on
management
(11) allow to pay competitive salaries and recruit highEa±ualit
staff; and



8
(iii) allow simolifled grocurement irocedures which are a
necessary condition for efficient and rapid subproject
implementation.
(b)   To ensure efficiencl and transiarencv of operations, the following
elements are important;
(i)   the use of a standardized menu of suboroiects contributes to
efficient subproject implementation by: (i) limiting the
range of specialists to be recruited by SIFs; (ii) providing
standard parameters and specifications used by sponsors in
subproject preparation; and (iii) facilitating appraisal and
supervision of subprojects by SIP staff;
(ii) a comprehensive ODerational Manual with clear eligibility,
appraisal, implementation, and supervision criteria;
(iii) a well-designed taraetina mechanism based on a poverty map
using population and poverty criteria, allowing funds to be
allocated to the poor in each municipality, and providing
higher levels of funding to poorer municipalities;
(iv)  Dromotion and support for suboroiect Preparation should be
r-ovided by SIFs predominantly in poorer municipalities; and
(v)   annual financial audits and ouarterly oDerational audits
ensure transparency and appropriateness of SIP operations
aud usage of funds and are an essential element in
attracting external funds.
(c)   Governments are well-advised to get SIPs off the ground very early
in a new administration. The early start, with Government funds,
is instrumental in demonstrating to potential donors the nature of
the program and the Government's commitment thereto, and is key to
mobilizing external resources and donors' advice and technical
assistance to improve the program.
2.21. Taking into account the above lessons, FISE was designed as an
autonomous institution exempted from the law of public administration, which
allows it to have a well-paid and motivated staff (para. 3.1). It has adopted
simplified contracting procedures (para. 3.1) which conform with IDA's
procurement guidelines to be applied under the project (paras. 4.16-4.22).
Efficiency and transparency are already ensured through the application of a
well-designed targeting mechanism (para. 3.13), a standardized menu of
subprojects (para. 3.10), an Operational Manual which is being improved to
satisfy IDA's requirements (para. 3.24), promotion and support for subproject
preparation (para. 3.9), and annual financial and quarterly operational audits
to be undertaken under the project (paras. 4.30-4.31). The current
Administration did start VISE early in its term of office, which has been
instrumental in demonstrating results and attracting assistance from foreign
donors (paras. 3.4 and 4.15).



9
III. TEE NICAIAGUAN SOCIAL INVESTEN§ T UlU)
Institutional Form
3.1. The FISE was created by Decree No. 59-90, dated November 21 1990, a. an
autonomous public institution, attached to the Presidency (Annex 3). The most
salient features of the VISE decree aret (a) the FISE has a life of five
years; (b) it is a financing and not an executing entity; (c) it is subject to
external audit; and (d) it is exempted from the contracting law and the law of
public administration. Given the limited life of FISE, it would be a special
event of default If the Borrower fails to appoint a successor to FZSE In case
the gro ect is not completed by November 20. 1995 (para. 6.4(a)).
3.2. The FISE was declared a high priority by Mrs. Violeta de Chamorro,
President of the Republic. This is reflected through budget allocations of
US$5 million each to VISE for 1991 and 1992, which are significant amounts
during a period of austerity in Nicaragua. The FISE has solid support within
the Government as an instrument for poverty alleviation, and the MON, MOE, and
the Nicaraguan Institute for Water and Sewerage (INAA) collaborate closely
with FISE in the promotion and preparation of subprojects.
3.3. The President of the Republic is the president of FISE and delegates
management responsibility to a Board of four members composed of the Chairman
(the current incumbent is a highly respected and experienced businessman) and
three other members representing the health, education, and construction
sectors, all from the private sector. The present incumbent has been Chairman
of the Board since June 1992. The first Chairman resigned after less than two
years of service to go back to the banking sector. He judiciously chose a
time when the institution had been well set up and major foreign donors had
shown strong interest in supporting FISE. The Executive Director and the top
staff have not changed since the start of FISE. The Board msets every week to
approve subprojects and has additional sessions as required to: (i) approve
general strategy, action plans and rules of operation; (ii) approve the annual
budget; and (iii) authorize VISE to contract external and domestic funds.
Performance in 1991 and 1992 and Needs for Improvement
3.4. PISE was started by the GON in February 1991 with strong initial support
from USAID, which transferred a US$10 million program from the Institute for
Municipal Development (INIM) to VISE. Soon, the IDB came in with US$3
million for financing of subprojects and US$1 million for institutional
development. This was complemented by a US$500,000 technidal assistance grant
from UNDP. The Government of Canada, through the Canadian International
Development Agency (CIDA), has also approved US$1 million.
3.5. After 18 months of operations, FISE has proved to be a highly efficient
institution of the GON. As of July 31, 1992, FISE had approved 549
subprojects for a total of US$21 million. The average size of subprojects is
US$38,250. This is a significant effort considering that FISE is a new
institution that has had to organize its administrative structure, recruit its
staff, design its operating procedures, inform potential beneficiaries and
executing agencies of its objectives and methods of operation, as well as
coordinate with line ministries and agencies to complement their efforts. VISE
disbursements were also limited by its amount of financing available (mostly



10
from GON, USAID, and IDJ). Operating costs represent 6Z of total co"mitments
which is reasonable based on the number of subprojects approved and their
average cost and compares favorably with experience in other SIF operatio4n in
Latin America. PISB is now close to reaching its goal of covering all 143
municipalities of the country. By June 30, 1992, 942 of all municipalities in
Nicaragua had received fiasncing for subprojects. The first Chairman of the
PISE Board succeeded In building a team of capable and dedicated executives,
many of whom returned to Nicaragua from neighboring countries to work for
FISE. PISE Is well respected In the country by the general public and by
foreign donors.
3.6. Yet, as would be expected after a relatively short period of sharply
increasing activities, FISE's operations need further ixprovement. PISE's
management was willing to accept suggestions made by IDA at appraisal. This
has resulted in a quick decision to introduce changes which will improve
project implementation. Six main areas were reviewed:
(a) During its initial months, VISE financed a larve number of
subiroiects in Mananua, the capital, where 271 of the population
lives. Such an approach made sense initially when FISE was
establishing its identity. It also allowed a faster
implementation of subprojects because they were clustered in a
small geographic area. PISE, however, has already started to
remedy this imbalance by promoting and financing more subprojects
in rural municipalities. Given the size of the country and the
reasonable quality of roads, most parts of the country can be
reached within a few hours. No regional offices are contemplated
at present, but should the need be established in the future, VISS
would consider opening local branches. Under the project, VISE
would implement a targeting mechanism already put in place and
satisfactory to IDA to ensure that subprojects are properly
targeted to the poorest groups and municipalities (paras. 3.8-3.9
and 3.13-3.14)S
(b) Another weakness of VISE has been the initial lack of promotion.
This was because well-designed promotion campaigns could not be
widely developed until the menu of subprojects and the eligibility
criteria had been well defined and delivery capacity established.
These have now been established and will form part of the
Operational Manual (pars. 3.24). VISE has started to organize
project preparation seminars with municipalities where the project
prepatation capacity is weak (par&. 3.14);
(c)   An area in need of correction is the sectoral allocation of funds.
As of June 30, 1992, 312 of the funds for subprojects went to
repairs of schools, 172 to repairs of health posts, and 521 to
economic Infrastructure such as drainage, road improvements, and
markets. Initially, a large proportion of VISE support went to
economic infrastructure subprojects because these are easy to
evaluate and implement and provide significant short term
employment and visibility, which was considered a priority at the
beginning of the present Administration. Under the project, VISE
would allocate a larger proportion of funds to social



11
ifrastructure and social services subprojects (paras. 3.7 and
3.10);
(d)   There is a need to continue to improve the guality of suburoiects.
Subprojects are generally of good quality, but a sample review
showed some design problems (e.g., use of different roof designs
for primary schools) in a few social infrastructure subprojects
which could easily be corrected. WISE is already taking measures
to itprove subproject quality, including improvement in appraisal
methodology through training of the evaluation staff,
standardisation of design, and improvements of supervision. VISE
has undertaken a thorough supervision of its subprojects with
staff doing site visits about twice a month. However, the lack of
experience of some staff did not allow them to always detect
problems at an early stage before all funds were disbursed to the
contractors. FISE is remedying this by providing training to its
supervision staff. Under the project, technical assistance would
also be provided to KOK and MDE to strengthen their subproject
preparation capacity (para. 4.5);
(e)  There have been delayg in desian    and imementina manamement
information svstem (HIS). Significant progress has now been made
in this area and full MIS Implementation is a condition of
effectiveness (par&. 3.32); and
(f)   No Imoact assessment of WISE subprojects has been undertaken so
far. The only available indicator of WISE's contribution toward
poverty alleviation is the volume of employment createdt 73,500
mn/months during the first 18 months of operations. Under the
proposed project, an Impact evaluation study would be carried out
by November 30, 1993,e and its results would be analyzed as part of
the mid-term review (para. 4.33).
Future Objectives and Anuroach
3.7. Supported by IDA, IDE, and other donors, the GO has reviewed the
objectives, policies, and operating procedures of FISE. To protect the living
standards of marginal population groups from further deterioration during the
period of economic adjustment and improve these standards in the medium term,
PISE will devote a larger proportion of its resources to the financing of
social infrastructure and social services subprojects (pars. 3.10) essential
for the development of human capital, the poor's only resource. Employment
creation will remain an important objective, but less so than at the beginning
of the economic reform program when it was the primary objective of WISE.
3.8.  Several mechanisms have been put in place to ensure that subprojects
would be properly targeted to the poor. First, VISE will allocate its funds
on the basis of a poverty map ranking all 17 departments and 143
municipalities of the country based on population, child malnutrition, and
access to potable water and basic sanitation indicators (para. 3.13 and
3.14). These indicators have been used to produce a municipal index of
poverty au to assign a larger volume of resources to the poorest
municipalities. Given the scarcity of data (pare. 2.6), WISE has made a major
effort to update poverty information using data from sector agencies. The use



12
of child malnutrition rates and access to water and sanitation as the main
criteria for targeting is satisfactory because they usually coincide with low
income levels, high illiteracy rates, high school repetition and dropout
rates, and high infant and maternal mortality and morbidity rates. Second,
the use of SIF funds is programmed by sectors so that social infrastructure
and social services subprojects represent about 752 of the overall program.
Third, subprojects with the highest social return (primary education, PHC, and
water and sanitation) are given higher priority (Annex 9).
3.9. As demand will not come naturally in the poorest areas because of the
lack of capacity to prepare projects and because of the low incentives of
private contractors to operate in these areas, FISK will make special efforts
to ensure that its targeting goals are attained. This will be done through:
(i) oubproject and eligibility criteria; (ii) strong promotion in poorer
areas; (iii) special incentives such as lower cost-sharing requirements to
sponsoring agencies that present projects in poorer localities; and (iv)
extensive technical assistance to those who lack project prepar^tion capacity.
3.10. FISE would finance subprojects in accordance with eligibility criteria
and evaluation parameters established in the Operational Manual (para. 3.24).
Investments would be financed in the following areas, according to the
standardized menu of subprojects:
(a)   Social Infrastructure.  This program has been developed within the
context of the GON strategy to improve the delivery of basic
services. It would complement priority primary health and
education, and nutrition programs, paving the way for the medium
and long term improvement of service delivery by the line
ministries. It includes the rehabilitation only (no new
construction) of pre-primary and primary schools, health centers
and posts, and water and sanitation systems for marginal urban and
rural areas currently lacking services. Social infrastructure
support would represent about 552 of the FISE program.
(b) Economic Infrastructure. This program would include: (i) public
markets and public service facilities (used for the delivery of
social programs); (ii) small bridges, drainage, canals, and
retention walls; and (iii) rural road improvement. It would
represent about 23.5S of the FISK program.
(c)   Social Services.  This program has been developed as a complement
to the social infrastructure program, providing equipment and
software compcnents such as training to ensure effective delivery
of services in the rehabilitated infrastructure. FISE would
finance nutrition, PHC, primary and pre-primary education programs
whose target population would be pregnant and lactating women and
children aged 0 to 12 years.  This would represent about 202 of
FISE program. FISE would finance: (i) basic sanitation training;
(ii) PEC training programs for nurse aids and paramedical staff;
(iii) environmental and health education; (iv) rural nutrition
centers for children; (v) equipment and furniture for health
centers; (vi) school desks and other furniture; and (vii) school
libraries. This program would be executed by NGOs, private and
public sector agencies. It would require significant promotional



13
effort from.PISE as well as identification of dynamic, capable,
and determined executing agencies.
(d) Commuritl Training for Maintenance of Subnroiects. To ensure
sustainability of subprojects, FISE would finance subprojects
providing training and technical assistance to local committees in
charge of the maintenance of health posts, schools, and water and
sewerage systems. This would represent about 1.52 of the FISE
program. For each subproject, FISE would enter into tripartite
maintenance agreements with the sector line ministry or agency
(MOH, MOE, or INA) and a local maintenance committee representing
beneficiaries. NGOs or private companies would be contracted to:
(i) help create local maintenance committees when they do not
exist; (ii) provide training in maintenance of physical facilities
based on maintenance manuals to be developed jointly by FISE and
line ministries with the participation of local communities; and
(iii) train local committees in simple fund-raising techniques,
funds management, general management, and supervision. Technical
assistance would be provided under the project to MOB and MOE to
strengthen their capacity to maintain facilities beyond the life
of VISE subprojects (Annex 15).
3.11. The proposed allocation of funds takes into consideration: (a) user
priorities; (b) GOV priorities; (c) the need to give a higher priority to
programs having a high social return; and (d) other donors' interest. These
target percentages will be reviewed at the mid-term review in light of the
first year of experience under the project and adjusted as may be necessary
(para. 4.33).
3.12. Administrative costs would represent about 62 of the FISE total budget,
which is considered efficient based on the average size, type, and
distribution of subprojects expected to be processed an4 the expected
technical assistance and supervision efforts.
Targeting of Funds
3.13. Under a targeting system introduced in July 1992, satisfactory to IDA in
terms of objectives and design, FISE aims at nationwide coverage, but giving
priority to assigning resources to the poorest areas. Resources are allocated
to each of the 143 municipalities of the country according to population size
and a poverty index, composed of displaced population, child malnutrition, and
water supply indicators. Municipalities are grouped in three categories
ranging from extreme to medium poverty (Annex 11). Poorer municipalities
(i.e., those with extreme and high poverty) are assigned larger allocations on
a per capita basis than the other municipalities. The municipalities With
medium poverty are also eligible for FISE financing because there are poor
people in relatively wealthier municipalities. Durint netotiations. the
Borrower Provided evidence that PISE has set uD a satisfactory taraetinl
mechanism to channel more funds to poorer municipallties In 1993. 1994. and
1995. based on a govert? index, and atreed that this mechanism would not be
chanted without IDA's aseroval (para. 6.1). Durint netotiations. agreement
was reached th8t without IDA's arn,roval. FISE would not commit more than 182
of funds to Kanaeua and 72 to other "medium novertv" municiDalitles and would
not modify the mechganims for tartetint goor mAnicpaslities (para. 6.2(a)).



14
Geographical targeting is complemented by a ranking which gtves priority to
subprojects providing the highest return (Annex 9). For example, on a scale
of 1 to 3, water and sewerage subprojects have a priority 1 (high priority)
whereas roads have a priority 3 (low priority).
3.14. FISE has developed a quarterly monitoring system that compares actual
commitments to amounts of funds allocated to each municipality. This will
allow PISS to strengthen its promotion in municipalities where there is a
deficit of appraised subprojects (para. 3.9) and allow IDA to monitor FISP's
compliance with its targeting goals.
Or&anization and Staffing
3.15. FI8 is organized into seven departmentss projects, administration and
finance, monitoring snd supervision, external financing, legal, internal
auditing, and data processing (Annex 4). This is a sound administrative
structure which is comparable to that of other successful SIPs in Latin
America. FISS has a total staff of 58, of which 37 are professionals
including civil engineers, economists, lawyers, accountants, computer
specialista, and other technical specialists. The higher level staff has been
screened and selected in close consultation with UNDP. All department heads
have graduate degrees from abroad and their competence is comparable to the
highest level in the public sector. By December 1992, FISE plans to increase
its staff to 88, of which 56 will be professionals. The staffing plan was
prepared as a function of FISK's expected workload and standard staff
productivity ratios comparable to those used in similar social funds (e.g.,
eight subprojects per evaluator per month and 30 subprojects per supervisor
per mouth). In addition to its own staff, FIS plans to subcontract a number
of training and supervision tasks to NGOs, private companies, and consultants
when required for specialized tasks. This strengthened organization and
larger number of professional and support staff will be sufficient to handle
the increased number of stbprojects expected under the project.
Technical Assistance
3.16. FISK receives technical assistance from IDB and UNDP. Administered by
UEDP and totalling US$1.5 million, the contract has provided for the financing
of: (i) all administrative costs, including salaries of FISS directors, unit
chiefs, and professional staff; (ii) logistical equipment (vehicles,
computers, telephones, faxes, photocopying equipment, furniture, etc.); (iii)
part of other operating expenses such as rent and maintenance; and (iv) about
50 months of consultants. This contract expired in July 1992, and has been
extended to December 31, 1992.
3.17. FISE's requirements for technical assistance and operating costs have
been estimted at US$4.2 million for the 1993-94 period (Annex 14). financing
would be provided through: (a) an IDB loan for a three-year period which
adequately covers the US$1.7 million in technical assistance estimated to be
required from IDB for the project; (b) a second-phase technical assistance
contract of US$0.4 million between FISE and UEDP; (c) GON counterpart funds of
US$1.3 million; and (d) US$0.6 million. from the proposed IDA credit. IDB and
WIDP will finance part of the professional staff, consultant services, travel
expenses, equipment, and general office expenses. The GON will finace part
of the staff and other operating expenses (Annex 6). Funds from the IDA



15
Credit would complement funding from IDB, UNDP, and the GON, and would finance
consultant services (including notably environment and procurement
specialists), operational audits, vehicles and computers for a total of US$0.6
million. The Borrower has submitteds (a) a draft tecbhical assistance
contra¢t between UNDP snd FISK; and (b) a draft proposal for the IDB technical
assistance, to be included in the IDB loan. A. a cod tion for credit
effectivenegsat  (i) the technical assistance contr,act between UNDP and FISE.
aati_fsstorv to IDA. would have teen ai*ned: and (ii) a loan aztreement between
the Borrowr and IDE ncludAnt aatlsaftsorv provision of technical assistance
to FISE. would have been a&ined (para. 6.3(d)). Experience with technical
assistance and need and possibility for extension will be reviewed at mid-term
(para. 4.33).
Proaram Tarxets and Oeratina Casnacitv
3.18. Clearly, there is an enormous potential demand for subprojects that
could be financed by VISE, especially given the status of disrepair of social
infrastructure after 10 years of civil war and the level of poverty in
Nicaragua. In the document presented to the Consultative Group meeting in
Washington in March 1992, VISE estimated a program of US$255 million over five
years. However, based on FISK,s estimated operating capacity, IDA considered
that a program of US$64.5 million (including operating costs of US$4.0
million) over a two-year period starting in January 1993 is more reasonable.
To allow for possible implementation delays, disbursements would be permitted
for a period of two-and-a-half years (para. 4.25). This estimate is based on:
(a) projected increase in staffing, but maintaining total operating expenses
in a proportion of about 62 of total commitments (which is in line with
operating costs experienced in other SIP projects); (b) the objective of
targeting additional resources to the poorest municipalities which usually
have less subproject preparation capacity; and (c) expected financing
available. A program of US$64.5 million over two years would require
commitments of about US$2.7 million per month. Although ambitious, the
experience of SIPs in similar countries and FISE's own operational record
indicate that this program target should be feasible.
Major Particinants in PISE Prolects
3.19. The major participants in FISE projects aret (a) the beneficiaries, the
communities who benefit directly from PISE through the project in terms of
income, employment, health, nutrition, and educati0n; (b) the suonsorint
oamenv i.e., the institution with full legal entity, responsible to present a
subproject to FISK (e.g., municipalities, public sector agencies including
line ministries, or NOOs); (c) the executina aaencg, the agency or contractor
in charge of executing a VISE project and responsible for the selection of
personnel who will undertake the project; and (d) the supervisina amencv, in
cases where specialized technical knowledge is required such as in more
complex water and sanitation subprojects.
3.20. Identifying and preparing subprojects is the responsibility of sponsors
and beneficiaries, but line ministries, municipalities and other sponsors have
significant deficiencies in subproject preparation capacity. Under the
project, MNO and MOE would receive tecbnical assistance to improve their
subproject preparation capacity (para. 4.5),  USAID is considering a project,
through INIJAN, to help municipalities improve their project preparation



16
capacity. FIRE has also started to take a more active role and provide advice
to sponsors through its promotion staff. In some cases, this function would
be subcontracted to private contractors or NGOs.
Proiect Promotion. Identification. an  j1 aon
3.21. The FISE promoter establishes the first contact with the beneficiaries
and the sponsoring agency, and determines the likely eligibility of the
subproject, based on FISE eligibility criteria. The promoter makes the first
judgment on a project and passes it on to the evaluation staff for appraisal.
3.22. FISE's pipeline of subprojects now consists of: (i) a list of over 400
eligible subproject requests totalling US$15 million, and (ii) 50 adequately
prepared subprojects for a total of US$1 million. To improve its pipeline of
subprojects, FISE has prepared and started to implement a program to
strengthen subproject promotion and preparation: (a) it has formalized a plan
to allocate funds to municipalities on the basis of a poverty map so that
municipalities have more incentives to risk some of their limited own funds to
prepare subprojects; (b) FISE is more actively publicizing its menu of
subprojects and eligibility criteria both with municipalities, INIFOM, and
line ministries; (c) it has been organizing project preparation seminars with
municipalities, line ministries, and private contractors; and (d) in selected
cases in poor municipalities, FISE will provide funds for subproject
preparation (preparation expenses to be financed if the subproject is approved
by FISE).
Proiect Am,raisal
3.23. All subproject requests are forwarded by the Director of the Projects
Department to the appropriate specialist (e.g., social infrastructure or
social services) for evaluation. The appraisal staff reviews subprojects and
undertakes a site visit with the sponsor. To be more efficient, site visits
of various subprojects are grouped regionally. Agreement is reached with the
sponsoring agency on the completion of subproject preparation based on FISE's
evaluation criteria included in the Operational Manual (para. 3.24). A
project report is then prepared, revised by the Projects Director and the
Executive Director, and sent for approval by the Board.
3.24. As reflected in the Operational Manual, the scope and process of
subprojoct appraisal depends on the complexity and types of subprojects being
financed by FISK. The first criteria applying to all subprojects is to ensure
that they reach the poorest segments of the population and respect the funding
allocation based on the poverty index (para. 3.13).  After this screening,
subprojects are evaluated according to technical, financial, social,
institutional, and environmental criteria. FISB evaluates whether subproject
proposals are realistically costed based on a system of standard regionalized
unit costs. For social and economic infrastructure subvrolects, appraisal
criteria cover technical feasibility, labor content, cost sharing, economic
rate of return of no less than 12X when applicable, cost per beneficiary when
the economic rate of return cannot be applied, and institutional arrangements
for sustainability and cost recovery. In appraising social services
subgrolects, the focus is on cost per beneficiary, implementation capacity of
executing agency and its ability to provide for recurrent expenditures, the
agency's financial state, and the ratio of administrative costs over total



17
subproject cost. At negotiations, the Borrower submitted a draft Operational
Manual, satisfactory to IDA. As a conditgon for credit effectiveness. a
finaliged Onerational Magual. sstisf_cgory to IDA. wBuld have been adogted by
FISH (para. 6.3(a)). Durins nesotiatgggo. It was agreed that any change to
the Overational ManUal that could affept materially and adversely the carJrinz
out of the grolect MOuld constitute an eveAt of default (para. 6.4(b)).
Proiect Aygroval
3.25. The Board is the ultimate instance for project approval, except for
large subprojects and the first two subprojects in each category where IDA's
approval is required.  Durinz ne&o_tiatonsa  agre ement was reached that
subgrofects costint more than SS25_0.000 sad the first two subgrofelts in each
category (social infrastructure, economic infrastructure, social serviggC. and
community tralnz for maintenance) would reguire IDA's prlor approval (para.
6.2(b)). The total number of such subprojects is expected to represent about
one percent of all FISS subprojects. The Board meets each week and reviews a
package of subprojects. Sponsoring agencies are then informed of the Board's
decision and contracts are signed.
Prolect ImDlementation and Suipervsion
3.26. Social infrastructure subprojects are carried out by local private
contractors or NGOs under the supervision of FISE or by an NCO in the case of
complex water subprojects. Social services subprojects would be typically
carried out by an NCO under the supervision of a government department or
another NGO. Each subproject would be covered by a three- or four-party
contract, satisfactory to FISK, between PISS (as the funding agency), the
sponsoring agency, the contractor and the separate supervising agency.
3.27. Under the above contracting system, FISS disburses a portion of the cost
of each project directly to the contractor as an advance upon signing of the
contract, against receipt of a commercial bank guarantee of 152 of subproject
contract, which is equal to the first advance. This requirement, which
ensures that contractors would start and complete works following the agreed-
upon schedule, has routinely been applied by FISE as well as other social
investment funds in Latin America. Thereafter FISE makes partial payments
every two or four weeks covering the percentage of work completed, the latter
having to be certified independently by the FISE supervisor.
Coordination with Ministries
3.28. FISE coordinates its operations with ministries and line agencies, more
specifically MOR, MOE, and INA&A, to ensure that: (i) FISH-financed
subprojects are geared to fit into the long-term plans of the ministries; (ii)
the ministries' technical norms and standards are followed (e.g., prototype
architectural designs for schools); and (iii) recurrent costs (e.g., teachers,
textbooks, nurses) will be covered by the responsible ministry. Coordination
between VISE and line ministries and agencies is good and is undertaken
throughs (i) overall agreements between FISE and line ministries delineating
their field of collaboration; (ii) F 8's clearance of subprojects with line
ministries on a non-objection basis; and (iii) regular meetings to review the
pipeline of subprojects.  To formalize the parameters of its cooperation with



18
line ministries, institutional agreements have been prepared. PISS has signed
cooperation agreements, satisfactory to IDA, with MOB, MOE, and INAA.
Subpro1ect sustainabliAt
3.29. FISE appraisals emphasize that :.ts subprojects are structured to ensure
the eustaiuability of each investment and its benefits.  In the social and
economic infrastructure programs, FISE only finances the rehabiltation or
expansion and not the construction of schools and health posts and centers,
and it finances road rehabilitation as opposed to construction. Before
contracts for the rehabilitation of schools or health posts are signed, FISE
would require confirmation from MOR or MOR that expenditures for salaries of
teachers or health care promoters and other recurrent expenditures such as
teaching materials or medicines will be budgeted by the line ministry. In the
social services program, FISK would support subprojects with low recurrent
costs, such as training of health care promoters. Also, counterpart financing
of at least 5X of the total subproject cost would be required from
beneficiaries (or sponsors in the case of subprojects sponsored and
implemented by NG0s) in the form of cash, kind, or labor to ensure submission
of good quality subprojects that would likely be sustainable beyond FISK
support. Given the current limited institutional capacity and budgetary
limits in MOE and MOB, FISE will finance subprojects to train local committees
(lpacronatoe") in maintenance of social infrastructure. Subprojects would be
undertaken under tripartite agreements between local committees, FISK, and the
relevant ministry. The local communities would use maintenance manuals for
schools and health posts that are being jointly prepared by HOk, MOE, and
VISK. These maintenance manusls are part of in the Operational Manual (para.
3.24).
3.30. FISE is taking the appropriate measures to ensure that subprojects
financed under its recently-started water and sewerage program are
sustainable. All subproject contracts have a clause requiring the final owner
of the project, INA&, or the municipality, to provide for cost recovery and
maintenance. As INAA's operational coverage is limited mostly to urban areas,
INAA has agreed that VISK would organize the formation of local water
committees where necessary to set up tariffs and administer revolving funds to
recover sufficient funds to cover the costs of operation and maintenanc of.
water and sanitation systems. VISE is also considering signing a contract
with a private firm or an NO0 to provide technical assistance in the poorer
municipalities to set up and strengthen water committees and assist them to
,stablish and collect tariffs.
3.31. As regards social services subprojects, FISK would be careful to select
subprojects sponsored by EGOs who have a proven track record in the type of
subproject presented. Also, FISK would support the expansion of already
successful projects, and would require significant cost sbaring from the
sponsoring 100. (152-252). These subprojects would be approved in
consultation with MOE and MOQ, that would ensure recurrent cost funding for
the operation of the facilities provided for under the subprojects and take
over the ownership when the subprojects are completed (e.g., construction of
school desks).



19
Manamement Information System
3.32. FISK's management information system (MIS) will consist oft (1) a
subproject database that will allow FISK'. management to better track Its
increasing number of requests and analyze the evolution of Its portfolio in
relation to its targeting and sectoral allocation goals; (ii) a unit cost
system to improve evaluation of subproject costa; (III) a supervision control
system to keep record of subproject budgets, physical progress and
disbursements, and issue payment orders to the administration departments; and
(iv) a budget monitoring and control system.  FISK'. MIS, currontly under
development, will be operated on 15 personal computers and will use a software
partly developed in-house. The MIS will produce regular reports and
performance indicators (para. 4.23), allowing management to: li) take
corrective actions when necessary; (ii) improve its plnaningg and (ILL) better
inform sponsors and financier. on the progress of subprojects. The unit cost
system is ready and operational. The two other systems, currently operated
manually, are being computerized. As a condition for credit effectivenega
the eAtlre MIS will have been  fimplemaented and FPSE will hav  aubmtted a f1rae
aeriey of MIS-aenerated reports and verfoimance Indscators. gatiufactorg to
IDA (para. 6.3(b)).
IV. 
Obiective
4.1. The project would help the Government sustain its poverty alleviation
efforts and maintain social cohesion during the period of economic adjustment
until line ministries strengthen their institutional capacities and complete
policy reform programs. To the extent feasible, the methods of operation,
procedures, and experience of PISS would be transferred gradually to social
ministries to help them improve their efficiency and equity of service
delivery.
Pescrintign
4.2. The project would have four components. The first comuonent vould
finance, through FISK, a range of small-scale subprojects (89.01 of total
project cost of US$68 million) sponsored by municipalities, line ministries,
community organizations, and NGOs, in four broad categoriess (i) social
infrastructure (552 of total FISE subproject costs, Annex 9)1 (il) economic
infrastructure (23.52, see Annex 9); (iii) social services (202, see Annex
10); and (iv) community training for maintenance of subprojects (1.51). It
would also provide for the strengthening of FISE's capabilities in the
appraisal, approval, and supervision of subprojects. Operating costs of FISK
are projected to represent 5.91 of total project costs.
4.3. The second component (1.31 of total project cost) would consist in
tecbnical assistance to the National Institute of Statistics and Census (INEC)
to implement a LSMS program and analyze its results. INIC would carry out the
first round of the survey in 1992. A sample of 4,200 representative
households from the seven regions of the country would be included in the
survey. In this first round, the data to be collected would be: (i) at the
household level: demographics, migration, housing, education, health,



20
nutrition, labor force participation, informal sector businesses, household
expenditures and consumption; and (ii) at the community level: Sovernment
services in education and health, transportation, main sectors of economic
activity, and prices (Annex 12). DurInR netotlatlons. agreement was reaehed
that IJ would comnlete the imglementation of the first round of the LSMS by
March 31. 1993 (para. 6.2(c)). This component would have particular benefits
for the project and its implementation as this methodology would be used to
conduct an evaluation of FISE's impact. This evaluation would compare FISE
beneficiaries with the general population, thus allowing to evaluate FISE
targeting and demonstrate how to evaluate targeting of specific social
programs. Thus the project would help increase the GON's analytical capacity
for social policy decision-making, particularly for targeting poverty
alleviation interventions and monitoring social conditions.
4.4. In addition to providing a national household survey and a FISE
beneficiaries impact assessment, this component would have two additional
benefits. First, it would create a system to monitor living standards and
analyze the following key topics: (i) poverty profiles in the different
regions of the country; (ii) employment and price of labor; (iii) access and
demand for health and education services; (iv) prevalence of malnutrition
among children under 5 years of age; (v) the extent and functioning of the
informal sector; and (vi) household consumption patterns. Second, it would
help the CON make significant progress toward the implementation of a national
population census in 1993 by updating census maps.
4.5. The third comnonent would strengthen MOH and MOE's capacity to plan and
prepare subprojects that would be eligible for financing by FISE or other
sources (2.62 of total project cost). The component (described in Annex 15)
would: (i) help MOH and MOE produce a mapping of their facilities, providing
a detailed analysis of their present physical conditions and their needs for
rehabilitation; (ii) provide training of MOH and MOE in project preparation
and appraisal, focusing on technical, financial, and social aspects; and (iii)
provide technical assistance to MON and MOE to strengthen their capacity to
maintain facilities with community participation. The project would finance
computer equipment and consultants. This component would have two important
benefits. First, it would help improve the quality of subprojects presented
to FISE by MOR and MOE, thus facilitating appraisals by FISE and cutting down
the time between subproject identification and approval. Second, and more
importantly, it would build up the institutional capacity of MOH and MOE in
terms of subproject selection, preparation, and evaluation, thus providing to
these ministries long-term benefits beyond the existence of FISE. Terms of
reference for this activity have been reviewed by IDA and found satisfactory
(Annex 18).
4.6. The fourth comnonent (1.22 of total project cost) would improve
budgeting and financial management in the MOH and MOE and help refine their
policies through: (i) strengthening the investment and expenditure
planning/prioritization function, linking both to the budgeting function; (ii)
strengthening and restructuring budget management by reconditioning the
budgeting and accounting units in the MON and MOE based on MOF expenditure
control guidelines; (iii) establishing an effective mechanism to coordinate
and control foreign aid; and (iv) undertaking specific studies that would help
the MON and MOE to refine their sectoral strategies (Annex 16). In order to
coordinate this component across the social sectors, the technical assistance



21
would be implemented through the HOP, which would carry the primary
responsibility for sector policy and budgetary coordination, and would
undertake to make the technical assistance services available to the line
ministries. The component would finance consultancy services, training, and
computer equipment.
On-Lending and Implementation Arrangements
4.7. The proceeds of the Credit (US$25.0 million equivalent) would be lent to
the Republic of Nicaragua, which would pass on US$23.5 million as a grant to
FISE. FISE, in turn, would use the Credit, in conjunction with funds from
other international donors and the National Treasury, to finance subprojects
under the form of grants in local communities and implemented by private
contractors, NGOs, and public agencies under the technical supervision of
appropriate agencies. The CON would allocate the balance of US$1.5 million
for the implementation of the three technical assistance components of the
project. As a condition for credit effectiveness, a Subsidiary ARreement for
makinR the funds avallable by the Borrower to FISE. satlsfactory to IDA. would
have been entered into (para. 6.3(c)).
4.8. The project would be implemented over a period of about two years. The
main executing agency would be FISE for subprojects. INEC, MOH, MOE, and MOP
would carry out the technical assistance components. FISE's staffing
criteria, and procedtures for the identification, preparation, appraisal, and
implementation of subprojects were reviewed by IDA and are satisfactory. FISE
activities would be guided by the provisions of its Operational Manual (para.
3.24). FISE's current management is satisfactory to IDA. Durinl
ne"*ota_tons. agreement was reached that any future agvointments of the
Chalrman of the Board and the Executive Director of FISE would be S-ub ect to
grior IDA avDroval (para. 6.2(d)).
4.9. The other executing agencies, INEC for the LSMS and the impact
evaluation of FISE, MOH and MOE for the planning, preparation, and maintenance
of subprojects, and MOF for the strengthening of budgeting and financial
management in the line ministries, would receive technical assistance under
the project to execute their respective components (paras. 4.3-4.6).
Costs and Financina Plan
4.10. The total project cost, net of taxes and tariffs, expressed in June 1992
prices, is estimated at US$68 million equivalent. Foreign exchange costs
(US$17.7 million) represent 26.02 of the total project cost. A breakdown of
project costs is shown in Annex 5 and is summarized below. The disbursement
schedule is shown in Annex 7.
4.11. Since the project is essentially a financial intermediary type
operation, physical targets depend on subprojects to be presented and no
contingencies have been provided. Any increase in the average subproject
amount would be reflected in a reduced number of subprojects executed. The
costs of the FISE component are based on FISE actual costs in 1992. The costs
of technical assistance to INEC, MOH, MOE, and MOF which would finance
consultants and studies, are based on the average cost of technical assistance
provided by UN agencies in Nicaragua, and on operational costs of INEC in
1992.



22
gstimated Cggt:t                                         Torsi        Total
US$ million -
It o   ISE
A.   Subprojects                        45.5         15.0        60.5
S.   Operating Costs                     3.5         0.5          4.0
Subtotal PISE                           49.0        15.5         64.5
11.   L84S and PISS
Impact Evaluation                        0.7         0.2          0.9
III.  Technical Assistance
to MON  and MOE                          0.4          1.4         1.8
IV.   Tebhnical Assistance for Social
Sector Reform Management                 0.2         0.6          0.8
TOTAL COSTI'                            50.3        17.7         68.0
4.12. The cost estimates of FISE subprojects reflect a consensus of sector
specialists (health and education, social services, and water and sewerage).
A significant number of subprojects in all these sectors have been on the
shelves of ministries for a number of years because of a lack of executing
capacity and complicated bureaucratic procedures. Total estimated demsad
exceeds PISS capacity and the average project size was estimated on the basis
of VISE projected subproject processing capacity and that of private
contractors, NGOs, CON agencies and municipalities to execute subprojects.
4.13. The proposed IDA credit of SDR17.3 million (US$25 million equivalent)
would represent 36.81 of total project cost. Local beneficiaries (including
ultimate beneficiaries, municipalities, NGOs or other entities) would
contribute US$3.1 million. The Borrower contribution would be US$6.3 million
and would partly finance FISE'S operating costs over two years (US$1.8
million), VISE subprojects (US$4.35 million), and the LSMS costs (US$0.15
sillion). * DwrinR ngegogitlons. areement was reached that the Borrower would:
(i)  rovlde the followint minimum amounts. as counterpart funds for the
lganclna of the grofectt [aS USS30650.000 for 1993: lb] USS2.6,66.000 or
199M  and fe  USS2.666.000 for 19955' and (11  advance from the above
mOUAtJ. aAd not later than the ftrst day of each quarter. amounts sufficleot
to coger counterDart fuand durint that aaurter (para. 6.2(e)).
4 14. Co-fJUU3iN|  The Government of Germany (through KfW), which has
already co-financed two other SIP projects with IDA in Central America, has
confirmed that it would provide US$13 million for the project. IDB has
inlicated that it would contribute US$16.0 million. Other possible fimanciers
would be Switzerland with US$3.5 million, Japan with US$0.7 million, and UNDP
with US$0.4 million.
4.15. Negotiations by the CON with the respective potential financiers are
well advanced to secure financing totalling US$19.9 million equivalent from
IDE, URDP, and the GOvernment of Switzerland as indicated in para. 4.14. As a
1, Net of taxes and duties.
hi Partly beyond project period.



23
condltlion for cgd"it .ffectglvea:st (I) a loan atreagmnt of USW6 mlllon
botween 71SE gad ZDB  (*11) a technlcal aosAgtanc. contract for USSO.4 m1llion
beotween FZSE and VNPa and (flIl) fundlnt a&reementa of USS3.5 milligon itl
other flnanclers, would hvey  been sired .(paras. 6.3(d) and 3.17).  Tho
proposed financing plan is shown In Annex S and summarized belows
Flrancsqr Plant                              12ca1       Qrxia Mgtal
Goverrnment of Nicaragua                       6.3          0.0          6.3
Beneficlaries                                  3.1          0.0          3.1
IDA                                           18.2          6.8         25.0
IDB                                           10.4          5.6         16.0
Governmont of Germany (KfW)                    9.0          4.0         13.0
Government of Switzerland                      2.5          1.0          3.5
UNDP                                           0.3          0.1          0.4
Government of Japan                            0.5          0.2          0.7
TOTAL                                          50.3        17.7         68.0
Procurement
4.16. The PISS Decree exempts FISS from the standard state system of
purchasing goods and services for subprojects financed by FI8, which are
regulated in accordance with a FISK Procurement Manual (part of the
Operational Manual) approved by FI8K's Board. Procurement carried out by FISK
during 1991 and 1992 va. reviewed and found to be In line with IDA procure#mt
guidelines. Procurement under the proposed project would be carried out In
accordance with IDA procurement guidelines.
4.17. Although no international bidding (ICB) Is expected because of the
decentralized nature of FIK8 operations and the small size of subprojects, to
the extent possible, contracts for works would be combined in packages of
US$500,000 or more and contracts would be awarded on the basis of 1C8, in
accordance with IDA's procurement guidelines (May 1992). For civil works,
contracts below US$500,000 (and above US$50,000), up to an aggregato amount of
US$17.5 million, would be procured through local competitive bidding (LCB).
4.18. For civil works contracts below US$50,000 (and over US$30,000), local
shopping requiring at least three quotations would apply, up to an aggiegate
amount of US$3.5 million. Local shopping for this size of civil works is
justified because most subprojects will be quite smll, demanding little if
any use of heavy construction equipment. Most works will-be carried out in
scattered places in 143 municipalities over a period of about 2 years. Under
these circumstances, it is extremely unlikely that large domestic contractor.
will be interested in bidding for small civil works. For some project
components in remote locations direct contracting would be applied under
exceptional circumstances, consistent with pars. 3.5 of the IDA Procurement
Guidelines. In cases where not more than one offer can be expected, FI8 has
established a system of standard regionalized unit prices on the basis of
which it would negotiate the price of the contract directly with the
Implementing agency. This system of contracting would apply for contracts
below US$30,000, and up to an aggregate amount of US$3.4 million. The
schedule of standard regionalized unit prices would be maintained and updated
by FISE at least every six months.  Durint negotiations. agreement was  ached



24
that the Borrower would. by no later than September 30 and March 31 of each
year. startlng on March 31. 1993. cause FISE to review the standard
reaionalized unlt prlces for goods and works established by FISE. lointlv with
IDA. and cause FISE to chante Promptlv such grices. In form and substance
satgofactory to IDA. If so recomended by such a review (para. 6.2(f)). This
procedure is acceptable to IDA in view oft (a) the importance of
administrative simplicity for handling about 20 contracts per week; and (b)
the operational audit system which would review procurement in subprojects on
a quarterly basis (para. 4.31). To help implement IDA's guidelines and
develop bidding documents and procedures, technical assistance would be
provided in the form of consultants to be financed under the project.
4.19. For roods, ICB would apply to contracts above US$250,000. To the extent
practicable, contracts for goods would be grouped in bid packages estimated to
cost the equivalent of US$25O0OOO or more. Local shopping would apply for
contracts below US$250,000, up to an aggregate amount of US$0.3 million. This
is shown in some detail in Annex 8.
4.20. Consultants would be selected in accordance with IDA guidelines for the
use of consultants.
4.21. Propriety in contracting would be safeguarded in a number of ways:
(a) simple procurement practices satisfactory to IDA, will be included in the
Operational Manual; (b) subprojects would be supervised regularly by FISE
field staff or contracted specialists; and (c) external auditing of FISE and
executing agencies would be carried out on a continuous basis, covering both
financial records and physical progress.
4.22. Although no ICB is expected, any ICB procurement documentation would be
subject to IDA's prior review. IDA would carry out a prior review of all
contracts above US$250,000 for works and US$150,000 for goods. In addition,
IDA's prior review would apply to the first two contracts of each kind (i.e.,
for goods and for works). This review, combined with the operational audits
(para. 4.31), would provide an overall review of about 302 of total contracts,
which is acceptable given the nature of the project. The balance would be
subject to ex-post review by IDA after the contract award. Direct contracting
would be subject to a satisfactory review by IDA every six months of the
standard regionalized unit prices adopted by FISE. All procurement would be
carried out using standard bidding documents. Draft documents of such were
reviewed at negotiations and found satisfactory.
SuDervision and Renorting
4.23. Durint negotistlons. agreement was reached that FISE would submit to IDA
semi-annual reports (not later than three months after the end of each
semester) comnaring achievements of FISE with gerformance Indicators (para.
6.2(g)). The information provided (detailed in Annex 13) would cover the
following areas: (i) subprojects presented, appraised, in execution,
completed, and evaluated ex-post, including number of projects and
beneficiaries, amounts committed and executed and average cost per beneficiary
per year; (ii) sources of funds for each subproject; (iii) FISE's personnel
and consultants indicating the changes that have taken place during the
reporting period; and (iv) operating costs of FISE.



25
4.24. The proposed project would require about 25 staff weeks of supervision
per year. The supervision team would be a combination of IDA staff and
consultants with experience in the operation of similar social investment
funds in Latin America. Their main areas of expertise would be management,
engineering, social services, and finance. In addition, the mid-term review,
which would rely on a similar team of experts, would require about 12 staff
weeks.
Disbursements
4.25. The proposed IDA Credit would be disbursed over a period of about two
and a half years, to be completed by June 30, 1995. The final date for
presentation of subprojects by FISE to IDA would be December 31, 1994. The
project closing date would be December 31, 1995 (i.e., six months after the
completion date).
4.26. The expected disbursement profile for FISE (Annex 7) is shorter than the
average for LAC projects in the social sector, but is consistent with profiles
for other SIP projects in Latin America. It is expected that about 552 of the
IDA credit would be disbursed before the project mid-term review (para. 4.33).
In order to avoid possible excessive reliance or. IDA as against other donor
and Government resources, during neeotiations. afreement was reached that IDA
may retrain from disbursin& for subRrofects In excess of the following
#RgreR"te amounts flnanced out of the groceeds of the Credit: (I) SDR4.6
million within the period endint June 30. 1993: and Uii) SDR9.2 million within
rhe perlod ending Februgry 28. 1994 (para. 6.2(h)).  Durint netotiatlons.
streement was reached that:  (I) not later than June 30. 1993. IDA and the
Borrower will review the grotress made by the Borrower In the carrving out of
the prolect. based on the grotress In achievint. Inter slla. the followg_n
earsets: (a) imvlementsiton of tarteting system and achievement of
established oalsX. (b) eegrooriate structure for grocessint of subvrofects
Including adeauate staffint for gvaluation and sugervislon of subprolects. and
(c) efficlency of subprofect executlon. procurement. and contractual
gractices: and (ff) should the grogress made in achievint these taraecs be
considered not satisfactory. IDA may refraln from disbursements for new
subgrofects (para. 6.2(i)).
4.27. Disbursements would be made against the following categories of
expenditure: (i) VISE suborojects: 902 of disbursements by FISE approved on
or before December 31, 1994 according to F'SE's subproject selection and
evaluation procedures; (ii) Consultant services and comguter eauiiment to
INEC. MH0. MOE and NO:s 100S of the cost of consultant services and computer
equipment.   Purint netotatlons. atreement was reached that retroactive
flnsncint of up to SDR1.04 million would be permitted for eltible
expenditures Incurred since July 1. 1992 (para. 6.2(j)). Funds would be used
for financing a backlog of eligible subprojects approved by FISE in line with
evaluation criteria acceptable to IDA.
Documentation of Expenditures
4.28. Withdrawal applications with a contract value of US$150,000 or more for
goods and services, and US$250,000 or more for works, would be supported by
full documentation and the rest would be made on the basis of Statements of
Expenditure (SOEs), for which supporting documents would be maintained by VISE



26
and would be made available for review by IDA. A Special Account would be
opened In a commercial bank satisfactory to IDA, with an initial deposit of
US$2.5 million equivalent. This would correspond to about three months of
expenditures required under the project. Documentation forwarded to IDA for
disburoement (801E or full documentation) would cover a number of projects or
onatracts for services whose aggregate sum would be at least US$1.5 million.
Accounts and Audit.
4.29. An audit of FI8E accounts for Its Initial 18-month period of operation
ending June 30, 1992 was undertaken by an independent audit firm and shows
that Its accounts are in good order.
4.30. Under the project, FISK would be audited by private independent external
auditors, acceptable to IDA, who would undertake annual audits of FISS. Not
later thtn six months after the end of FI8E's fiscal year, FISS would submit
to IDA certified copies of audit reports containing balance sheets, income
statements and auditor's opinion of financial statements, as well as separate
opinions on: (1) project accounts; (ii) SOs; (iii) whether procurement of
all contracts wa carried out in accordance with agreed guidelines; and (iv)
an  alysis of whether internal controls In place are adequate to minimize the
possibility of misuse of funds or other improprieties.
4.31. In addition, the auditors would undertake special quarterly audits of
1I81's operations on the basis of acceptable accounting norms and procedures.
The auditors would examine a sample of subprojects, review the individual
contracts, ascertain whether the terms of these contracts are complied with,
inspect the progress of works, reconcile the physical progress vith the
f*§ancil expenses Incurred, and state whether procurement guidelines are
being respected. The auditors would prepare quarterly reports for the Board
of FI8K and for IDA (to be submitted not later than two months after each
quarter), and an annual uamary would be sent to IDA. The auditors would
review a significant sample of projects, acceptable to IDA. Quarterly reports
would focus on subprojects where errors have been detected and would state
that all other subprojects examined were in accordance with the terms of their
contracts.
4.32. Durln negotIstlons.   rs ement was reached thst yrlvaoe Inde_endent
external sudltorg. accetable to IDA. would undertake: (1) annual sudits of
FuSE: nd n(Al spe.cia1 auarcerlY audAts of FZSX's ogeratlons on the basis of
saceDtable accountint norms and Drocedures (para. 6.2(k)).
Kid-Term Reviw
4.33. By February 28, 1994, the CON would conduct a mid-term review of
progress in the implementation of the project, according to terms of reference
detailed In Annex 17. The mid-term review would cover all four components of
the projects (1) financing of-PISS subprojects; (ii) Living Standards
Measurement Survey; (1ii) technical assistance to MOH and MOE; and (iv)
technical assistance to improve budgeting and financial management in social
sector ministrile. In addition, the mid-term review would assess progress In
compliance with actions oxpected to be taken by the CON as specified in the
social sector policy letter (Annex 2). In the case of FISE, the review would
use a set of monitoring and project implementation indicators (Annex 12) and



27
focus on the following areas: (1) the targeting of FISE funds (in order to
channel more resources to poorer municipalities); (ii) the quality of the
subprojects financed by FISK; (iii) the impact of PISK-financed subprojects;
(lv) the administrative efficiency and the financial soundness of the
operations of FISEt (v) experience with technical assistance from IDB and UMDP
and assessment of need.and possibilities for extension; and (vi) an assessment
of the extent to which the experience of FISE can be transmitted to strengthen
social ministries and Improve their operations. The results of this review
would be discussed with IDA and on the basis of this, the Borrower would
prepare and cause Implementation of an action plan satisfactory to IDA, and
would thereafter implement actions agreed upon as a result of this review for
their Implementation. During neaotlations. akreement was resched that the
Bogrpr would undertake a mod-term revlew of the U_51 prolect not later than
February 28. 1994. crenare an action plan. acceptable to IDA. bz Msrch 31.
1994. and thereafter implement it in accordance with the timetable Included In
the plan. Should thls actlon glan not be im_lemented satisfactorily. IDA maU
refrain from disbursements for new suborolegts (para. 6.2(1)).
V. BENEFITS AND RISKS
Benefits
5.1. By providing resources to poor urban and rural communities, FISE would
help to: (i) prevent deterioration in the living standards of the poor during
the period of economic adjustment; (ii) improve basic health and education
facilities currently deteriorated and lacking basic equipment to operate;
(ifi) reduce incidence of water-borne diseases by expanding coverage of water
and sanitation; (iv) improve health, nutrition, and literacy, particularly
among women and children; and (v) strengthen the Government experience with a
decentralized mechanism for delivering development assistance to
municipalities and small businesses and mobilizing grassroots efforts, which
could subsequently be used by other agencies. Other project components would
provide long-term benefits by: (i) helping the Government improve its social
sector management capacity; and (ii) strengthening social ministries' capacity
to,prepare subprojects.
5.2. Environmental Effects. The project has an environmental B rating. The
Operational Manual of FISE (para. 3.24) will stipulate that all subprojects
financed by the FISE in various sectors (water, roads, etc.) do not adversely
affect the environment. It will provide specific guidance on institutional
responsibility for environmental review, administrative procedures to be
followed in conducting such reviews, environmental criteria to be applied in
the review process, and environmental mitigation and management measures to be
applied in cases where significant risks would be apprehended. On the basis
of the Operational Manual, FISE evaluators would use a checklist to undertake
a short environmental impact assessment for each subproject. The main factors
to be analyzed are the potential negative effects that may result from: (i)
location of infrastructure; (ii) generation of sediments; (iii) alteration of
waterways; and (iv) waste disposal.



28
JarticiRstion of Women
5.3. Health posts and centers rehabilitated under the project would benefit
mostly women who are the main users of these facilities. About half of the
beneficiaries of primary school subprojects would be girls. In addition, FISS
has programmed 20S of its resources for social services subprojects. All
these subprojects would provide a systematic channel for the participation of
women in the improvement of their household's and communities' well-being.
The main groups to which social services subprojects would be directed include
women, particularly female heads of households, and pregnant and lactating
mothers, and their children up to 12 years of age. Within the social services
program, high priority would be assigned to subprojects on maternal and child
PHC, health and nutrition education, and primary education.
Risks
5.4. There is a risk that the GON may attempt to implement the FISE program
with excessive speed, and project funds might be poorly used and diverted to
uses outside the scope of the project. The risk would be reduced by
establishing ceilings that would ensure that the proportion of IDA funds to be
disbursed before the mid-term review would not exceed about 55Z of the total
Credit amount. A soecond risk is the inadequate subproject preparation
capacity of line ministries, municipalities and NGOs. This will be addressed
by FISE making additional promotion efforts and providing subproject
preparation assistance and through technical assistance provided under the
project to social ministries. A third risk is the lack of maintenance of
physical facilities rehabilitated by FISE. This risk will be mitigated by
FISE providing assistance to local communities for maintenance of subprojects,
and by contractual agreements concerning funding and maintenance between FISE,
line ministries and agencies, and user committees in charge of maintenance.
VI. AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOOENDATION
6.1. During negotiations, the Borrower provided evidence that FISE has set up
a satisfactory targeting mechanism to channel more funds to poorer
municipalities in 1993, 1994, and 1995, based on a poverty index, and agreed
that this mechanism would not be changed without IDA's approval (para. 3.13).
6.2. During negotiations, agreement was reached that:
(a)   Without IDA's approval, FISE would not commit more than 18? of
funds to Managua and 7Z to other "medium poverty" municipalities
and would not modify the mechanisms for targeting poor
municipalities (pars. 3.13);
(b)   Subprojects costing more than US$250,000 and the first two
subprojects in each category (social infrastructure, economic
infrastructure, social services, and community training for
maintenance) would require IDA's prior approval (para. 3.25);
(c)   INEC would complete the implementation of the first round of the
LSMS by March 31, 1993 (para. 4.3);



29
(t)   Any future appointments of the Chairman of the Board and the
Executive Director of FISE would be subject to prior IDA approval
(para. 4.8);
(e)   The Borrower woulds  (i) provide the following minimum amounts, as
counterpart funds for the financing of the project: (a)
US$3,650,000 for 19931 (bl US$2,666,000 for 1994t and (el
US$2,666,000 for 1995; and (ii) advance from the above amounts,
and not later than the first day of each quarter, amounts
sufficient to cover counterpart funds during that quarter (para.
4.13);
(f)   The Borrower would, by no later than September 30 and March 31 of
each year, starting on March 31, 1993, cause FISE to review the
standard regionalized unit prices for goods and works established
by FISE, jointly with IDA, and cause FISK to change promptly such
prices, in form and substance satisfactory to IDA, if so
recommended by such a review (para. 4.18);
(g)   FISE would submit to IDA semi-annual reports (not later than three
months after the end of each semester) comparing achievements of
FISE with performance indicators (para. 4.23);
Ch)   IDA may refrain from disbursing for subprojects in excess of the
following a8gregate amounts financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit: Mi) SDR4.6 million within the period ending June 30,
1993; and (li) SDR9.2 million within the period ending February
28, 1994 (para. 4.26);
Si)   (l) not later than June 30, 1993, IDA and the Borrower will review
the progress made by the Borrower in the carrying out of the
project, based on the progress in achieving, inter alia, the
following targets: (a) implementation of targeting system and
achievement of established goals, (b) appropriate structure for
processing of subprojects including adequate staffing for
evaluation and supervision of subprojects, and (c) efficiency of
subproject execution, procurement, and contractual practices; and
(ii) should the progress made in achieving these targets be
considered not satisfactory, IDA may refrain from disbursements
for new subprojects (para. 4.26);
(j)   Retroactive financing of up to SDR1.04 million would be permitted
for eligible expenditures incurred since July 1, 1992 (para.
4.27);
(k)   Private independent external auditors, acceptable to IDA, would
undertake: Ci) annual audits of FISE; and (ii) special quarterly
audits of FISE's operations on the basis of acceptable accounting
norms and procedures (para. 4.32); and
(1) The Borrower would undertake a mid-term review of the FISE project
not later than February 28, 1994, prepare an action plan,
acceptable to IDA, by March 31, 1994, and thereafter implement it
in accordance with the timetable included in the plan. Should



30
this action plan not be Implemented satiefactorlly, IDA may
refrain from disbursemonts for new subprojects (para. 4.33).
6.3. The conditions for credit effectlveness would be the following
(a) A finalised Operational Manual, satisfactory to IDA, would have
been adopted by VISE (pars. 3.24);
(b) The entire MIS will have been Implemented and FISK will have
submitted a first series of MIS-generated reports and performance
Indicators, satisfactory to IDA (pare. 3.32)g
(c) A Subsidiary Agreoment for making the funds availabl, by the
Borrower to FIS2, satisfactory to IDA, would have been entered
Into (para. 4.7); and
(d) (i) a loan a8reement of US$16 million between I8SE and IDB; (it) a
technical assistance contract for US$0.4 million between FISK and
UNDPI and (lii) funding agreements of US$3.5 million with other
financiers, would have been signed (pares. 3.17 and 4.15).
6.4. The following special events of default were agreed to by the Borrowers
(a) if the Borrower fails to appoint a successor to Its& in case the
project ie not completed by November 20, 1995 (pars. 3.1)t and
(b)   any change to the Operational Manual that could affect materially
and adversely the carrying out of the project (pare. 3.24).
Recommendation
6.5. Subject to the above assurances and condition., the proposed project
would constitute a suitable basis for an IDA credit of SDR17.3 million (US$25
million equivalent) to the Republic of Nicaragua on standard IDA terms with 40
years maturity, including ten years of grace.



Page 1 of 1
SOCIA-LCOC ivIsIICIuT0R8
YEAR(S) O1
INDICATIR IT8                                            VALUE
on  Per Capita                              US$            1990        400
Illiteracy                                   2             1990         20
Net RnroU*uent In Pimary Schools             1             1990         80
Infnt Mortality                      Per 1,000 birth.      1990         72
Unde_eight Children (0-5 yearS)        -                 1980-1988      13
Births Unattended by Ilath Staff             S             1989         66
Stunted Children (9-12 year.)                2             1986         22
Low Weight at Birth                          X             1989         15
maternal mortality                   Per 100,000 live      1990        159
birth.
Sources World Bank - Republic of Nicaragua Soil Sector Issues and
Rmcandations, Report No. 10671-lI, August 3, 1992



'qL'''A'=PN                     Page l of 7
-,, ,*'C4U
i#kd,IeIe h. dri....s.            nocw  Imsmzm Nun
,&*&Ao ad ^d160e
REPUBLIC O0 NICARAGUA
Letter of Social-lector PolicLes
October 8, 1992
Mr. Lewis T. Preston
President
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Dear Nr. Prestons
1.   This letter summarizes the broad discussions of the Government of
Nicaragua's social sector strategy for the short term (1992-1995) and the
medium term (1992-1998). Using this letter as a point of departure, the
Government has also been formulating a comprehensive policy and strategy
document detailing priority programs and measures to be pursued over the short
and medium term, and including an implementation plan covering operational
targets, resource allocations, and implementation arrangements. A draft of
this document will be submitted to the International Development Association
(IDA) by May 31, 1993. To complete this document, further preparation and
extensive discussions within the Administration will be carried out (as
described in paras. 11 and 23), as well as continuing dialogue with IDA and
other donors. Given Nicaragua's anticipated heavy reliance on donor financing
for social sector programs in the short and medium terms, it is the
government's intention that the policy and strategy document become the
central instrument for coordination of donor efforts in the social sector.
Bacn
2.   When assuming office in April 1990, Nicaragua's current Administration
inherited an economy on the brink of collapse. During the 1980., the
combination of inadequate economic policies and a civil war resulted in an
extremely severe deterioration in the economic situation of Nicaragua. Per
capita GNP was estimated at less than US$400 in 1990, or one-third of its 1977
level in real terms, and accumulated foreign debt was over five times GDP, the
highest debt ratio in Latin America. Starting in March 1991, the Government
launched an economic stabilization program to eliminate hyperinflation, arrest
the decline in GDP, and strengthen the balance of payments through tight
fiscal and gaonetary policies, which IDA has supported through an Economic
Recovery Credit.
3. While redressing the economy has been its most pressing task, the
Government also recognizes the urgent need to improve social conditions which
are a cause of serious concern. Poverty is overwhelming, with 23% of the
population living in extreme poverty and 16% in critical conditions. Social
indicators are among the lowest in Latin America: infant mortality wPa
72/1,000 live birthn in 1990, caused mostly by diarrhoea and acute reapiratory
infections, maternal mortality is 159/100,000, total fertility averages 6



Page 2 of 7
2
children per woman of childbearing age, and 22% of children experience
moderate or severe malnutrition. Poor water and sanitation services render
the population unprotected against water-borne diseases, more so in the rural
areas where water coverage is only 18% and sanitation coverage only 9%. Over
20% of the population is illiterate, currently repetition and dropout between
first and second grade is 45%, and only 22% of the children entering school
complete the primary cycle. The housing deficit is 450,000 units, and growing
at a rate of 6% per annum.
4. These results are not mainly the consequence of inadequate budgetary
provisions for the social sector. Social spending actually increased from
3.7% of GDP in 1979 to 9.1% in 1991, a share higher than in most Central
American countries, and much higher than those typical for an economy with
Nicaraguas GDP level. Rather, there are major inefficiencies in the sector
resulting from the lack of a coherent government strategy promoting sectoral
objectives and priorities consistent with the country's needs, low
institutional capacity in the line ministries, inefficient and inequitable
allocation of resources, which result in an inadequate delivery of quality
social services.
5. Restoring economic growth is essential to increase per capita income,
but we must take measures to improve productivity and alleviate poverty so as
to improve equitable access to economic opportunities and the social services
that will preserve and develop the country's most precious asset, its human
capital. This calls for the design and implementation of a coherent and
comprehensive social sector strategy that is consistent with the overall
economic program. We have already made some strides in that direction. The
document presented to the Consultative Group Meeting in March, 1992,
represents a first step in the evolution of the Government's two-pronged
social sector strategy. The first element of the strategy emphasizes reforms
in the line ministries to improve the provision of basic services which
benefit the poor most. However, while the reform of the sectoral institutions
is of the utmost importance because of its lasting effects on the structure
and efficiency of services delivery, this is a far-reaching and complex
process. As it will take time for line ministries to implement these reform
measures, it is essential that the Government also undertake targeted poverty
alleviation programs for the most vulnerable groups in the short-term.
A. Short-term Safety-nat Proarams 11992-199iS
6. For the short-term (1992-1995), the Government attaches high priority to
the following areas: support of groups directly affected by the war,
reconstruction of social and economic infrastructure, prekictive employment
creation, and targeted nutrition programs. The Go-ernment intends to
concentrate its efforts on a small number of key programs thats (a) are
consistent with the Goverrment's overall macroeconomic program and objectives
for the social sector, focusing on priority interventions; (b) target the most
vulnerable groups (women and children); and (c) have adequate institutional
setups and management capacities with transparent resource allocation and
accountability rules.
7*  The most important immediate instruments of this Administration to
implement these priorities are the National Reconciliation and Rehabilitation
Procram  ItlgRIN and the Social Investment Fund (FI8EL  In the medium term, the
Government will also consider the establishment of an ongoing safety net
program, Attention to Critical Poverty (APC). The APC would target transfers
to those groups among the poor who, for reasons of age, illness, etc., are
unable to benefit from the other elemnts of the Government's strategy.
S.  Although the civil war has ended, there are still many Nicaraguan
dire¢tly affected by the war who have been uprooted from social and producj$ /
lives in their coumunities. It is thus essential for the Government to



3                           tPae 3 of 7
intervene by relocating and supporting the reinertion of these populations to
civilian ociety. Otherwise, violence is likely to remain an a prominent
feature of Nicaraguan life. since in the past there have been overlaps and
lack of coordination between program for war affected populations, in 1992,
the Government created the PRRN with the main objective to support vulnerable
population groups in regions affected by the war. The PRRN is administered by
the Ministry of the Presidency (MIPP08).
9.  The other important program initiated by this Government is the PISS,
which was created on November 21, 1990 as an autonomous public institution
attached to the Presidency. We believe that WISE has started to play a major
role in alleviating poverty. FInS is an agency designed to fiance projects
in social and economic infrastructure to be executed by private contractors,
NGOs or Governmsnt agencies in all the country's municipalities with a
targeting system that assigns more resources to poorer municipalities. The
institution has been designed to be indepndently managd and fully
transparent. It operates in close collaboration with line ministries and
agencies and ensures that the projects it finances are in accordance with the
policies and priorities of the social sector minlstries. Despite the
Government's tight fiscal situation, we have assigned priority to VXSU with a
budgetary allocation of US$10 million in 1990 and 1991, which was complemented
by donor resources. After 18 months of operations, PIOe has proved to be an
efficient Institution. As of June 30, 1992, it had approved 549 subprojects
with a total cost of US$21 million, reaching 94% of the country's
municipalities, and creating over 73,500 man/month of employment. Based on
this favorable experience, the Government is cormitted to expanding FIax's
operations, for which it will require donor support.
10. The Government also attaches great importance to o rnt4*4&4=#.w
through several programs. The Government intends to rev-iw them and to
develop a coherent nutrition policy and select a limited but well-targeted
number of nutrition interventions for support by both the Governmnt and donor
agencies. The Ministry of Health's (NOR) nutrition activities will be also
strengthened within its primary health care services, including promotion of
breast-feeding and adequate weaning practices, as well as the nutrition
activities in the Ministry of Education's (MMO) pre-primary and primary
education centers.
11. In the next five months, the Vice Minister of Social Affairs, in close
collaboration with the executive directors of those agencies, the Ministry of
Finance (MNIMI) and the Ministry of External Cooperation (Men), will carry out
a review of existing safety-net programs in terms of their consstency with
overall economic proram  and social sector objectives, targeting, coverage,
costs (both administrative and programmatic), resource allocations and
accountability rules, and effectivene of implementation. Based on this
review, an asessment of the performance of existing programs will be
presented to the Government Cabinet by March 1S, 1993. This evaluation will
indicate strengths and weaknesse of these programs, recommend those that
should remiLn priorities for the Government, and what should be thear precLse
objectives and roles within the Government's social soctor strategy. Base on
the criteria referred to in para. 6, the Cabinet will review the performance
assessment and select those initiatives that will be supported in the next
three years, by April 30, 1993. The priority safety-net programs, Lacluding
an implementation plan covering operational targets, resource allocations, and
implementation arrangemnts will be part of the draft policy and strategy
document the Government will submit to IDA by May 31, 1993.
B.  Medium-term: Iamrovinu Delivery of Basic Sacial S.rvis2s  MU2-
1998)
12. The Government is conscious that improved basic health and education
essential for the development of the social conditions ncessary to i



Page 4 of 7
4
the standards of living of the population. Based on a review of the country's
epidemiological and educational profiles, and the main issues in the delivery
of social services, the Government has decided to focus its efforts on
improving the delivery of baslc social services, assigning the highest
priority to primary health care (PHC) and primary education. To translate
these objectLves into actual practice, the Government recognizes the need to
Implement major policy reforms and institutional strengthening measures in the
line ministries to improve efficiency of resource use and target expenditures
more directly to the poor. The Government's broad directions for the health
and educaticn sector for the period 1992-1998 are presented below.
Health Services
13. Despite the high priority and significant amount of resources assigned
to the sector since 1980, the country's health status has failed to show
commensurate improvement. This needs to be corrected. To that effect, three
priority areas have been defined. First, we will strengthen the delivery of
primary health care services. Second, we will improve the management of the
health sector. Third, we will adjust sectoral financing arrangements to
ensure a more efficient allocation of resources.
14. Regarding the imarovement of orimarv health care services, the
Government has already started to rehabilitate primary health facilities and
equipment, deteriorated during the civil war and economic crisis. To help the
Government prepare a rehabilitation program, a survey of PHC network
reconstruction needs is already underway. Based on this survey, the KOH will
prepare a complete rehabilitation program by March 31, 1993. I:- addition, the
Government is committed to accentuate health promotion and disease prevention
in PHC activities, especially in the areas of health education, pre- and post-
natal care, vaccinations, birth spacing, nutrition, and water and sanitation.
Key means to do so will bes (i) redirecting community participation from
short-term mass campaigns to routine community-based health care activities;
(il) better integrating our PHC programs so that complementary activities such
as immunizations, growth monitoring and nutrition education can be provided by
the same staff, thus avoiding excessive personnel costs; and (iii) improving
the referral system so that we can reduce the number of people bypassing the
primary level and seeking basic services directly at hospitals.
15. Some key measures have been taken by the MOB to improve the manacement
of the health sector. The health system has been reorganized into 19 district
level structures (8ILAIS) to integrate the health care system and allow for
decentralized management control and autonomy. To improve efficiency and
avoid bureaucratic duplications, the MOH has also eliminated the regional
offices. To enure that pharmaceutical and medical supplies are regularly
available in all our facilities throughout the country, the Government has
already prepared an assessment of major bottlenecks in the current system.
The Government will prepare a plan to undertake a complete overhaul of the
existing institutional arrangements at the Procurement Directorate at the
Ministry of Health (DAN) and the Center for Supply of Pharmaceutical Products
(CIP8), to control expenditures and develop rational use practices among both
prescribers and consumers, safeguard quality of consumer products, and remove
constraints to the development of the local pharmaceutical industry, by March
31, 1993. Additional priority measures, which will support PHC strengthening
will be taken tos (i) review the excessive emphasis on expensive curative care
by reorienting staffing patterns at the primary level towards non-physician
personnel; and (ii) improve our management information and supervision systems
so that we may obtain reliable data for policy-making, planning, and daily
decision-making, and monitor the actual delivery of services.
'.6. The third priority area in health is the need to redefine finangcing
srranzconts for the sector to ensure that both budgetary funds and foreig /
assistance are targeted to priority programs, and that the Government c



Annex-2
Page S of 7
5
sustain its level of commitment of local funds. The Government has already
started to channel some donor resources to the strengthening of PHC services
in 12 of the 19 districts (SILAIS) of the country. The Government is also
implementing a program to increase efficiency in the use of budgetary
resources in 6 Managua hospitals, and ensure they respond properly to the
cases referred to them from the primary level. For the next four years,
starting with the 1993 budget, the Government will increase the budgetary
share of PHC by 2% per annum within the overall health sector budget envelope,
and improve MOH's capacity for budgeting and financial management.  By xarch
31, 1993, the Government will develop cost-recovery strategies by exploring
the areas where user fees can be introduced for selected drugs and services.
Further actions to be taken will be to develop incentives for private sector
participation (i.e., commercial enterprises, NGOs, churches, and local
communities) in the provision of health care services, and use resulting
savings to increase the PHC budget.
Education Services
17. During the last decade, Nicaragua made major efforts to improve its
population's educational achievement. Although most children enroll in
school, the educational gains have not been as great as expected. To improve
the education system's ability to attain a more sizeable impact in the
educational attainment of the Nicaraguan population, three main areas need to
be addressed. First, the Government needs to increase the internal efficiency
of primary education services and improve their quality. Second the
Government meods to strengthen the institutional capacity of the (NOE) so that
it can improve its management practices. Third, the Government must allocate
sectoral resources better.
18. The Government has started to take some measures to improve the
efficiency and quality of orimarv education. With donors' support, the
Government has already introduced new textbooks for all core subjects in all
primary and secondary schools, but we still need to develop a long-term
textbook policy consistent with competence objectives for each level. Given
the critical importance of the first two grades on student's educational
attainment, the Government has adopted a policy to assign the more experienced
teachers to grades one and two. In addition, we are developing a program to
train primary school teachers, especially those without accreditation.
Finally, the Government has already started to rehabilitate facilities, which
have deteriorated during the civil war and economic crisis. A survey of
school rehabilitation needs is scheduled to be launched before the end of
October, 1992. Based on its results, the MNO will prepare, by July 1993, an
investment program to bring the public schools network to functional
standards. Additional measures to improve primary education will be to: (i)
enhance the content and quality of preschool programs and target them towards
rural areas where the most disadvantaged children livel (il) increase the
number of primary schools that offer all six grades in those communities with
excess demand, thereby reducing early dropout for lack of schooling services;
and (iii) institute automatic promotion of students from first to second grade
to reduce wastage produced by repetition and dropout in these grades.
19. Second, we have taken some actions to improve the overall manaaement of
the education sector. The MOR has already set in motion a decentralization
process that entails the reorganization of the previous structure. To improve
efficiency and avoid bureaucratic duplications, the MOB has eliminated the
regional offices, and initiated a policy to streamline non-teaching personnel,
and add, as required, qualified technical staff at the central level. Under a
donor-sponsored project, we are also in the process of implementing a
management information system which will track student flows, personnel, and
physical facilitiesg develop operational procedures for Ministry
administration; provide management training to central level administrative
staff, and strengthen staff at the municipal level both in administrative/S



PaSe 6 of 7
6
pedagogical matters. Further actions contemplated by the Governmunt are to:
(L) review the teachers incentive system to ensure that trained teachers
temain in the school system by evaluating the existing legislation on
retirement, wave and promotion (Iey de Cerrera Doeonte)l and (Ui) explore new
incentive scheme such as tying salary inciases to merit certification
through exam and performance reviews.
20. Third, the Government recognises the need to improve the intranarnora
alle"ition t resources. We have already taken oame decisive steps in this
direction by introducing voluntary fees at the primary level and compulsory
fees at the secondary level which have been usd to raise teacher salarLes,
targeting education subsLdLes to the poorest groups, and promoting private
sector participatLon ln the provLsion of educational servlces. For the next
four years, also starting with the 1993 budget, the Government wlll increase
the share of the domestlc budget devoted to primary education by 3% per annum
wlthln the overall educatlon budget envelops, and improve  OE,s capacity for
budgeting and financLal mangement. By December 31, 1993, the MOR will
moblise addltlonal foreign ald for lts prlority programs, partlcularly for
pre-primary education, and prepare measures to use a portlon of the resources
generated by user fees at the primary and secondary levels to fund crltlcally
needed lnputs such as materials, supervision, and maLntenance. Additional
measures will be tos (i) continue the promotlon of private provisLon of
educational servLoce at the secondary and higher educatlon levels by
deregulating licenses and feesl and (il) in the long term, restrLct public
subsldles to hLgher education, channeling the savLngs toward primary
educatlon.
Water and SanitatLon
21. Inadequate coverage of water and sanitation services results in the
consumption of poor quality water -- the main source of the hlgh incidence of
water-borne lnfectLous diseases -- and limits the impact of health
interventLoans. From 1980 to 1989, coverage ln urban areas Lncreased from 67%
to 78%, but over the same perlod coverage ln rural areas, where 40% of
Nicaragua's population lives, increased only from 6% to 18%* The Government
lntends to defLne a water and sanitation strategy aiming at improving coverage
and servlce quallty, with amphasis on the needs of the rural areas and the
poor, and on developing cost-recovery mechanisms and maintenance systems to
ensure the sustainability of investments ln the sector. Elements of this
strategy wlll lncludes (i) increasing the coverage of water servlces ln rural
areas and delivery to marginal populatlons, wlth strengthened community
participation in project deslgn, implementation and maintenances (LL)
improving water quallty through repalrs and improven ats to the delivery
system   (iLL) increasing the coverage of sanitatlon system  through masslve
latrine provision, and (iv) reLnforcLig the capacitLes of INAA and the
municipalLties to undertake these activities. FTIS will play a major role ln
the executlon of these projects.
22. In an effort to reduce the conslderable social stresses Lntroduced by a
population growth rate of 3.4% per annum, whlch is dLrectly reflected in
Nlcaragua's high rates of maternal and child mortality, the Government will
introduce lntensive famlly plannLng education programs, and wlll improve the
capacity of the health system (public and prlvate) to respond to the unmet
demand for family plannLng services and maternal and child health care. Such
actions will provLde women wlth greater control over reproductlve preferences
and wlll reduce maternal and chlld mortallty.
23.  Based on the Government's broad directLons for the health and educat
sector for the perlod 1992-1998 presented above, further preparatlon and/d
dLicussions wLthLn the Administration will be undertaken to develop the



Ame 2
7                          Pase 7 of 7
seatoral strategies. To met the schedule set out in para. 1, by Ootober 30,
1992, MO, MM and MXPRZS will organize working groups for health, education
and water and sanitation, respectively. Each group will include
reFprentatLves of MXVZN, and HIfRES, and the water and sanitation group will
also include representatives of INA and VIES. These workln! groups will be
responsible too (1) develop action plans for each of the pr ority areas put
forth in this letter in their respective sector; (Li) determine what speacfic
action will be undertaken and what quantifiable results will be obtaineds
(iiL) determine a timetable for implementatLon; (Lv) establish who will be
responsible for their implomentation; (v) estimate, depending upon the
proposed action, expected savings or additional costs implied; and (vL)
propose a financing plan taking into consideration budget resources and donor
financing. Bach ministry will present to the Governmnt Cabinet the sector
plan including the parameters detailed above by March 31, 1993. The Economic
Cabinet will review and adjust the sectoral plans to ensure consistency with
th overall macroeconomic program and fiscal constraints, financing gaps, and
sustainability by April 30, 1993. The sectoral plans, includLng an
implementation plan covering operational targets, resource allocations, and
implementation  rrent will be part of the policy and strategy document
the Government will submit to IDA by May 31, 1993.
24   To ensure that foreign assistance is consistent with the Government' s
social sector strategy and properly coordinated, the Government will  (i)
dLeminate its social sector strategy document to the donors; (1) sanctlon
and enforce a policy to support Its social sector strategy through the NIFIN
and MC; and (III) develop mechanism  to effectively monitor implementation of
programs financed under foreign aid.
>Shbezz yYours,
Dr. Umilio r ierlra A.
Minster o    nana
Government o N caraqua



Annex 3
Page 1 of 9
SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND
ORGANIC LAW OF FISE
DECREE N° 59190
The President of the Republic of Nicaragua,
CONSIDERING
I
That the special postwar situation, the difficult process of economic
stabilization and the corresponding structural readjustments that Nicaragua is
going through, bring along, in the short run, a heavy social cost that
primarily affects the poorest sectors of the country.
II
That it is the Government's primary concern to see to it and ensure that the
Nicaraguan population, especially those in most need, enjoy basic economic
welfare and a social justice system.
_III
That the limitations on the availability of Government resources mske it
impossible to adequately confront this situation of social emergency.
IV
That to respond immediately to the important needs of the social sectors
mentioned, supplementary resources other than those available from the
Government are required. Therefore, it is necessary to urgently create a
temporary, autonomous and specific agency with broad enough means and
procedures to be able to seek and channel national and international
cooperation toward those ends, and to take immediate actions with efficiency
and transparency in support of the solution of this special social emergency
situation.
SO, THEREFORE
Using her authority,
SHE HAS ISSUED:
The following decree on the:
CREATION OF THE EMERGENCY SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND



Annex3
Page 2 of 9
CIAPTER I
CONBTZTUTIWO, O3JECTMIIS AID AUTORITTY
CON8TTIUTIiN
Article 1. The merg ency Social Investment Fund, which can also be designated
with the acronym P18S, is hereby created as an autonomous State
Agency, with legal status, its own equity, for a period of five
years from the date this Decree becomes effective, and with full
capacity to acquire rights and enter into commitments.
Once the time frame indicated in the above paragraph
expires, the provisions of Articles 21 antd 22 of this Decree
shall be applicable.
Both in this Decree as in its Regulations, the Emergency
Social Investment Fund may be referred to either as the
"Fund" or "FTSE".
The Corporate address of the Fund shall be the Capital City
of the Republic.
Article 2.  The main purpose of the Fund is to help assit with the immediate
demands of the poor population, particularly those suffering
extreme poverty, as a consequence of the war that the country vent
through and of the structural adjustment. that the Government is
undertaking within the process of economic stabilization, through
the financing of projects that allow to meet basic social needs
and through employment generation. All of this with the purpose
of optimising the ability to fully integrate such population into
the social and economic development of the country, support and
promote their productive management and contribute to their human
development.
Article 3. To comply with its fundamental purpose, the Fund shall have the
following main powerss
(a)   To negotiate and receive financial cooperation, donations or
any other type of cooperation with international
organizations, with national institutions and with other
domestic and foreign suppliers.
(b)   Evaluate and approve the eligible costs of projects that
benefit the poorest population, providing the corresponding
funds, whether reimbursable or not.
(c)  Accept donations, inheritances and wills from natural or
legal persons, national or foreign.



Annx31
Page 3 of 9
(d)   Any other power that this Decree or its regulati0ns confer
on it.
Article 4. To enour, the Fund's adequate operational status to carry out its
fundamental purpose and authority, the fund ts authorized to:
(a) Admiulster the domeatic or foreign resources received under
any concept to met the indicated objectives and ohannel
tbom toward the execution of qualified projects.
(b) Provide the necessary funds for the execution of the
approved projects according to the priorities, requirements
and procedure. established in this Decreo, its Regulation
and the resolutions of the Board.
(c)   Enter into works, supplies and procuremnt of goods and
services agreements necessary to comply with its objectives.
(d) Evaluate and follow-up the projects under execution,
verifyl g their levels of progress and, whenever necessary,
makin4r aodifications to the same.
(a)  Unsure adeuate and efficient disposition of the resources
channeled to the different executing agenci_e, establishing
the necessary controls and audits.
(f) Carry out all the other duties indicated in this Decree and
its Regulations and all others that may be necessary to
comply with its purpose.
CB^PtEt II
ORGAEZATOI AND AhSTTICU
Article 5. The Emergency Socia Investment Pund shall be organized as
follows:
(a)  The President of the Fund;
(b)   The Board;
(c)   The  xecutive Director;
(d) The Operational and Advisory Units.
PRRSIDUC'! QF TfE PUDD
Article 6. The President of the Republic, as the highest authority of the
Pund, shall act as President of the same, ad-honorsm, with the
following powers:



ADBSLa
Page 4 of 9
(a) Appoint the Chairman of the Board and three members of the
same Board.
(b)  Approve, at the request of the Board, the Fund's General
Policieo.
(a)   Receive and approve the reports submitted by the Board.
(d)   Ensure that the Fund's purposes and functions are complied
with as provided for in this Decree and in its Regulations.
THE BOARD
Article 7. The Board shall be formed by a Chairman and three members
appointed from first to third.
The Chairman of the Board and the members shall be appointed
by the President of the Fund among individuals of recognized
professional accomplishments, uprightness and acknowledged
respectability from the public and private sectors of the
country, and shall discharge their duties receiving as
compensation the salary provided for in the Regulations.
POWERS OF THE BOARD
Article 8. The Board has the powers
(a)   To develop and submit FISE policies for action for the
approval of the Fund's President.
(b)   To approve the Fund's operational procedures and those for
the use and control of its resources.
(c)   Establish its internal operational regulations.
(d)   Approve projects and authorize their funding.
(e)   Submit to the Fund's President the management and
negotiation of financing reports, the channelling of
financial resources to specific projects, their execution,
audit reports and any other that may be required.
POWERS OF THE CHAIRMN OF THE BOARD
Article 9. The authority of the Chairman of the Board is:
(a)   Act as FISK's legal representative with powers of General
Trustee. However, he shall need express authorization from
the Board to sell or place as collateral real estate
holdings belonging to the Fund and to enter into commitments
exceeding the limit amount established by the Board itself.
(b)   Chair the Board meetings.



Annex 3
Page S of 9
(c)   Appoint the Directors of the different Fund units.
(d)   Ensure that Fund objectives and the authority of the Board
are complied with.
(a)  All others that may be necessary to comply with Fund
functions.
POWERS OF TIM MEMBERS
Article 10. The members have the following powers:
(a)   Participate with full voice and vote in Board meetings.
(b)   Take over the duties of the Board's Chairman in case of his
inability to discharge them, following the order of their
appointment, with the approval from the Board.
(c)   Substitute for the Chairman of the Board during his absence
from meetings according to the rank of their appointment.
MEETINGS OF TE_ BOARD
Article 11. The Chairman of the Board shall chair the meetings, which shall
take place whenever deemed necessary and as called upon by the
Chairmsn of the Board. Quorum shall be constituted by the
Chairman of the Board and at least two of the members, and
decisions shall be taken with the consensus of the majority of
members present. In case of a draw the Chairman, or his
replacement, shall have two votes.
From among the members, the Board shall designate a
Secretary, who shall have custody of the Boa-rd Record Book,
of drafting and finalizing minutes and of issuing the
corresponding certificates.
EXECUTIVE ADMINISTRATION
Article 12. The Executive Administration shall be formed by the Executive
Director and the professional, technical and administrative staff
contracted. Its main function shall be the execution of the
Board's agreements.
EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR
Article 13. The Executive Director shall be appointed and removed by the
President of the Republic. He is the highest executive official
of the Fund and shall have the following functions:
(a)   Direct and administrate the operations of the institution
and execute the decisions of the Board.



Annex 3
Pose 6 of 9
(b)  A4prove staff se'ection and sign the corresponditg working
contracts.
(c) Implement FI82'S policies and guidelines.
(d)   Contract an ezternal auditor with the prior authorization
from the Boavd.
(e)   All others assigned by this Decree, its Regulations or by
the Board.
Article 14. The Board shall establish the neceessary Advisory and Support
Operational Units in accordance with the provisions of the
Regulations of this Decree.
CHAPTE III
FiACIA SYSTE
iOnTY
Article 15. The Fund's equity is constituted by:
(a)   The resources assigned by the Government of the Republic,
deriving from within the Government of abroad.
(b)   Resources granted by national or international
organizations.
(c)   Financial resources or resources in-kind deriving from
operations such as trusts, wills, inheritances, donations or
others, conferred upon or constituted by natural or legal
persons, national or foreign.
SPECIAL BUDGBT
Article 16. Being an autonomous institution created to respond to an emergency
situation and with a specific duration, FISE shall be subject to a
special budget established according to the following regulations:
(a)   The Fund's fiscal year shall operate in agreement with the
Republie's General Budget.
(b) It shall indicate the allotments correspondting to its
internal operations and those destined to project finaning.
(c) Where applicable, it shall adhere to the extra-budgetary
funds system for economic recovery, if available.



AIaNn3
Page 7 of 9
(d)   It shall be entitled to the necessary flexibility required
by VIS's objective., vithout limitation to controls, audits
and verification, as pertinent.
SPICIAL SALARY SYTEM
Article 17. 1183, being a special Institution, temporary and created to assist
the present emergency, shall be ruled by a special salary system,
not necesstarily subject to the Government's salary scale, which is
part of its extra-budgetary funds and is subject to the following
standardst
(a)  The Board shall determine the standards for selection and
appointment of PISE's staff whose contracting shall be the
responsibility of the Executive Director.
(b) Remunerations, contributions and any other internal
guidelines affecting FI8 staff shall be established through
individual contracting taking into account the standards
referred to in the paragraph above.
(c)   The special salary system shall be in effect during the
lund's term of duration.
CBAPTIR IV
AUDITING AND UMOUTORIIG
Article 18. Whunever the Law so requires, FITS sball be subject to monitoring
from the General Auditor of the Republic, in a way commensurate to
its nature and objectives.
Article 19. The Fund shall implement the necessary financial controls to
ensure adequate use of the resources assigned to it, and for this
purpose it sha1l have an internal audit and an external audit
performed by an Independent, internationally recognized firm,
without limitation to the State monitoring referred to in the
above paragraph.
DUTIES OP TME INTERNAL AUDIT
Article 20. The Internal Audit shall be responsible for auditing the Fund's
budget implementation and its financial operations. An Auditor
appointed by the Fund's Board shall be in charge of these tasks.
The duties of the Internal Auditor shall be as follows:
(a) Verify in a preventive manner the Fund's financial
operations.



Annex I
Page 8 of 9
(b) Report to the Fund's Executive Director and Board on the
suditing of the financial statements in the implementation
of the Fund's budget.
(C) Make suggestions on the accounting system operations to
adopt the actions deemed convenient.
CHAPTER V
SYSTEM FOR CLOSING
CLOSING CmTTEE
Article 21. Three months before the end of FISg's duration, the Fund's
President shall appoint a Closing Committee formed by three
individuals chosen by him/her among whom there shall be a
representative from the Republic's General Auditor.
FUNCTIONS
Article 22. The Committee referred to in the previous Article shall have the
follovring duties:
(a) Determine the Fund's equity at the end of its period.
(b) Transfer to the pertinent institutions the responsibility of
the projects initiated.
(c) Transfer to public or private entities the Fund's capital in
accordance with the laws of the country and with the
international agreements that originated the supply of goods
in question.
(d) Submit to the Fund's Chairman the corresponding settlement
report.
CHAPTER VI
GENRAL PROVISIONS
DELEGATION OF LEGAL POWERS
Article 23. The Chairman of the Board, as FISK's Legal Representative may
delegate such representation granting the corresponding powers,
using as legal empowering document the certificate of his
appointment.



AnnL1
Page 9 of 9
EXEMPTIONS 8YSTEM
Article 24. The Fund shall be exempt from payment of all kinds of taxes, fe;'s,
charges or any other type of fiscal and municipal fees now in
effect or established in the future.
It shall also be exempted from the standard State system of
purchasing goods and services for projects financed by the
Fund, which shall be regulated in accordance with the
provisions of the Regulations to be issued.
c      aMITE   TO COLLABORATE
Article 25. All Government Ministries and autonomous and semi-autonomous
public institutions shall collaborate with the Fund whenever it so
requests.
REGULATIONS
Article 26. The Board shall draft the text of the Regulations within a period
not exceeding one month after the effectiveness of this Decree.
The Regulations shall be submitted to the President of the
Republic for approval and issuance.
Article 27. This Decree shall become effective from its publication in The
Gazette, the Official Record.
Issued in the City of Juigalpa, Chontales Department, on the twentieth day of
November nineteen hundred and ninety.
VIOLETA BARRIOS DE CHAMORRO
PRESIDENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA



A=-i
ag. 1 of 1
Imfimmm
oampuxzmo&  cnam or nus
Board of Diretor
L IHI
M-mas  ExoffW   Pro*"      ~~~Modioin     AdMint. &
rlw   ftwk                    l WO            FW



Anna"
Page 1 of I
SOCIAL INVESTENT FUD
PROJECT COSTS
(in US$ million)
Foreign Exchange             Percentage of
Amount   X  I   Amount  Total Cost   Cost fISE
1.   FISE
A. SubproJects
Social Infrastructure                    33.28        30             9.98         48.9          51.6
Economic Infrastructure                  14.22        20             2.84         20.9          22.0
Social Services                          12.10        15             1.82         17.8          18.8
Community Training                        0.90        40             0.36          1.3           1.4
Subtotal                                 60.50        25            13.76         89.0          93.8
S. Operating Costs
Salaries                                  2.19         0             0.00          3.2           3.4
Professional & TechnicaL                  0.28        90             0.25          0.4           0.4
Services
Advertising, Telephone,                   o.3           0            0.0           1.1           1.1
Electricity
Travel                                    0.30        50             0.15          0.4           0.5
Rent, Maintenance, etc.                   0.50        20             0.10          0.7           0.8
Subtotal                                  4.00         13            0.50          5.9           6.2
Subtotal FISE                            59.50        23            15.51         94.9         100.0
il.  LSNS & FtSE Impact Evaluation                 0.90        20             0.18          1.3
111. TA to NOand MOE                               1.80        80             1.44          2.6
IV.  TA for Social Sector Nanagement               0.80        71             0.57          1.2
TOTAL PROJECT COST                          68.00         26            17.69        100.0



_US6
SaIL  1 If 1
I  n. Ix  I    t. I   x          DIown       I   Toal
I. Fill
s.ocis Infrntmwtvr                   2.00    6        3.35   10      8.9    64        33.86
Icmermf Intr wturo                   0.6      6       1.14    6      12.28    a       U1.8
soeal $ervioes                       0.75    6        0.75    6      10.4    8        12.10
Cnmlty Training                      0.00    0        0.00    0       0.91   100       0.91
SalarIe                              0        0       0.4    s0       1.75   SO        2.19
Protf. aoeh. SIoe                    0        0       0.00    0       0.2   100        0.8
Advert g, teol      t olctrIcIty     0        0       0.16   29       0.5?   71        0.75
Trosl                                0        0       0842   60       0.06   20        0.30
tetn, Nantaie. etc.                  0        0       0.35   yW       0.15   30        0.50
Subtota FlIS                         3.       5       6.36   10      54.54   a5        4.5
11. LOW & FISE lw.t Ewustlmn              0       0       0.15  1         0.7    a        0.90
lt. TA to MN   dN "a                      0       0       0        0       10   100        1.80
IV. TA for socat sectorluiOg M            0       0       0        0       0.60   100      0.60
TWTAL                                     3.56    5.3     6.3      9.6    57.9    65.1   46.00



Page 1 of 1
sociAL nVSTiENT FUND
DISBURS-MENT SCMEDULE
(in US$ million)
___    -                                                        __
IDA Pis¢cl Year and Semester    Semester  Cumulative         S      Semester
1993
First (July 1992-December 1992)         0.0          0.0       0.0         1
Second (January 1993-June 1993)         5.01"        5.0      20.0        2
1994
First (July 1992-December 1992)         6.5         11.5      46.0         3
Second (January 1993-June 1993)         6.5         18.0      72.0         4
1995
First (July 1992-December 1992)         5.0         23.0      92.0         5
Second (January 1993-June 1993)         2.0         25.0     100.0         6
^/ Includes the initial deposit of US$2.5 million to the Special Account and
US$1.5 million equivalent of retroactive financing for eligible expenditures
incurred since July 1, 1992.



Paso 1 of I
SOCIAL IVESTENT FUND
PROCEMET NngS BY - CATEGORY
(in US$ million)
. ,PROCUEENT METHOD
CATEGORY             ICB      LCB      OTHER     .F      TOTAL
CIVIL WORES & MATERIALS                 17.5      6.9jLL   35.0      59.4
(15.8)    (6.2)             (22.0)
PFURIT     & EQUIPMENT                            0.3       0O1       0.4
.__________________________ .______        (0.2)               (0.2)
CONSULTANTS, TRAINlIG &                           2.8       2.0       4.8
AUIDITORS' SERVICES_                              (2.8)              (2.8)
SALAIES, ALLOWANCES,                                        3.4       3.4
OPERATING COSTS OF PISE                                              (0.0)
TOTALS    0.0     17.5     10.0      40.5     68.0
_________________________    -(0.0)   (15.8)    (9.2)  (0.0)   (25.0)
Notess Figure. in parentheses reflect IDA financing
NIF - Not IDA-Pinanced
IL  Local shopping and direct contracting.



Page 1 of 3
NICARAGUA
SOCIAL INVISThERT FUND
SOCIAL AID ECONOMIC INPRASTRUCTURE SUBPROJECTS
Avoraisal Criteria
1.  Tvpes gf Subproiects.  A list of 19 categories of social and economic
infrastructure subprojects defines the types eligible for VISE financing as
shown in the tables below.
2.  Taraet Population.  The first step to reach the neediest population is
through the programming of funds according to population size and a poverty
index composed of displaced population, child malnutrition, and water supply
indicators. To ensure that FISE financing reaches the neediest population,
FISK project officers also verify during their field visits that proposed
subprojects are located in the priority municipalities.
3. Labor Content. FISE finances subprojects where labor generally
represents at least 60X of the project cost. This percentage will be lower
for projects such as water supply or sanitation which have a high social
impact, but usually a high materials content.
4.  Materials.  To help the country's balance of payments, FISE will favor
subprojects with a high local material content. Exceptions will be made for
projects with large social impact such as water supply.
5.  Limit on Administrative Exwenses for Subrorgect Execution.  In the case
of direct contracting, FISK will constrain the amount of administrative
expenses and profit margins allowed under subprojects. These will be lower
than the usual private sector norms, but adequate enough to interest
contractors to bid on subprojects and ensure quality of works.
6.  Counterpart Financinat, Sustainabilitv. and Cost-Recovery.  Counterpart
financing of at least 52 will be required by FISE to ensure that good quality
subprojects are presented. The inter-institutional agreements between FISK
and ministries or line agencies ensures that subprojects are within the
sectoral priorities of the responsible institution which agrees to undertake
the operation and maintenance of the subprojects. Furthermore, to ensure that
these agreements are respected, FISE will, in coordination with GON agencies
such as INAA, MOH, and MNO, help create local committees in charge of
maintaining and operating the infrastructure financed by FISE and will provide
technical assistance to them.
7.  Cost Control. A computerized regional unit cost control system will
safeguard that costs of subprojects have been properly estimated.
8. Cost Effectiveness. The main parameters considered are cost per man-
month employed, unit cost per type of infrastructure subproject, and unit cost
per beneficiary. These unit costs will be used to establish standard project
profiles for each type of subproject and will help define maximum and minimum
parameters acceptable. Cost effectiveness will be controlled in all cases



Page 2 of 3
through the elaboration of prototypes for each type of infrastructure projects
financed by FISK.
9.  Technical.Viability.  Subprojects will be appraised according to standard
engineering and other technical specifications.
10. Economic Rate of Return. FISK is developing a siuple methodology to
evaluate the economic impact of each kind of subproject.  For water, sewerage,
and drainage subprojects, an economic rate of return (ERR) of at least 12Z
will be required for urban subprojects where adequate tariffs allow such ERR
to be contemplated. For subprojects in rural or rurallurban zones where
tariffs are not sufficient to attain this ERR, subprojects will be financed as
long as their unit cost per capita does not exceed US$150, which is an
accepted average for rural water supply projects in Latin America (this
average takes into consideration the smaller number of beneficiaries compared
to urban areas and the nued for larger investments in piping given the
distance between sources of potable water and communities). For other
subprojects such as schools or health posts, other parameters to be analyzed
at the community level will be used, including infant mortality rates,
prevalence of infectious diseases among children (diarrhea and respiratory),
severe malnutrition, percentage of school age children attending school, and
cost per beneficiary.
A. SOCIAL INFRASTRUCTURE SUBPROJECTS
Menu of SubDroiects
TYPE OF PROJECT           DESCRIPTION             SPECIAL COIDITIONS    |  RAIKIUG
Repelr of Schools  Building, playtround, fence,  Only schools in operation    I
toflets, or other inftreastructure
used in pubtlc schools
Expansmin or       BuiLdfng, playground, fence  Only schools in operation     I
Construction of    toilets or other infrastructure
Schools            used in pubtic schools
Repair and Expansion  Building and sanitary ftacilities   Only training centers in  I
of Training Centers                             operation
Repair of Health   Health Centers & Posts        Only heatth centea's 1n      I
Centers & Posts    infrastructure                operation
Extension or       Health Centers & Posts       Equipment and operatfon to    I
Construction of Health intrastructure            be ensured by sponsor
Centers
Repair of Day-Care    Osy-Care Centers, Orphanages, and  Only facilities fn operation  1
Centers and Shelters  Shelters
Extension or       Day-Care Centers, Orphanages, nd  Equipment am   etfoning  I
Construction of Day-  Shelters                   ust be ensureo by sponsor
Care Centers and
Shelters
Sanitation (Latrines)  For rural and marginal urban areas Sponsor must undertake 
training of beneficiaries
Sewerage           Sewerage systems, septic wells,   Includes house connections  I
treatment plants



DneIL9
Page 3 of 3
PitORtITI
TY"P Of PROJECT                  DESCRIPTION             |     SPECIAL CONDITIONS           RANKINGI
Potobte Water           Repair or construction of tanks,    Excludes house connections             I
pipes and outtets; pubile system
tl    Priority Ranking:  I a high priority; 2 a medium priority; 3 a tow priority
B. ECONOMIC IJI RASTRUC1 SUIIPROJICTS
Menu of Subgroiecta
I                                    I                             I |   PRIORITY
TYPE Of PROJECT                  DESCRIPTION             |     SPECIAL CONDITIONS      |   RANKING
Narkets                 Refurbishing of roofs and             Rents for use of spac  to be         2
sanitation.  Coistruction of smelt  charged by sponsor
tmrkets
Stauahterhouses         Repairs, expansion, and                                                    2
construction of municipal
slaughterhouses
Road lpvrovement         (a) Repairs of urban roads; paved   SidewaLk paving excluded              3
with stones or bricks, sidewalk
borders; (b) repairs and
maintenance of rural roads
Crfdpes                 Small urban or rural bridges,                                              3
pedestrian passages
Drainae                 Orainpipes, cnals, ditches, and    Drains and covering of                  I
gutters                              canals, ditches, etc.,
excluded
Retention Ualls                                               Economic justification               3
required
irrigation              Smatl irrfgation ditches, main and  Piping excluded                        2
sece -K. y canals
CCotlectin Centers      Sites snd warehouses                  Sponsor to ensure operation          3
and maintenance
Eawircrewntal           Small eros0on control and             sponsor to ensure                    3
Improvement             reforestation subprojects            maintenance



Page 1 of 4
ICARAGUA
SOCIAL INVESThENT FUND
SOCIAL SERVICES SUBPROJECTS
I.     Oblectives
1.    Nicaragua is one of Latin America's poorest countries, with per capita
GDP estimated at less than US$400 in 1990. It is in the midst of a structural
adjustment process that has fundamental implications for the social sectors.
Social indicators in Nicaragua show that poor health, malnutrition, and
continuing low levels of educational attainment are fundamentally related to
the continuing backwardness of poverty groups, especially those in rural areas
of the country. The GOB has devoted significant spending to public education
and health each year over the past decade. Both sectors absorb a substantial
proportion of resources from the public sector budget (35.9Z of central
Government expenditures in 1991) or 9.1X of GDP in 1991. However, current
programs do not provide sufficient benefits to the poor. Within the health
sad education sectors, resource allocation is inefficient and inequitable,
emphasizing curative care, tecbnical and higher education that serve middle
income groups. The figures of Annex 1 present selected social indicators for
Nicaragua.
2.   The Ministries of Health and Education recognize that today, programs
are not properly targeted to the poor, the young, or to rural areas. To avoid
a deterioration of social indicators during the period of economic adjustment,
they recognize WISE's role as a social safety net for the poor which could
complement existing service gaps at the local level through subprojects
carried out by NGOs, local communities, and the private sector.
3.    In line with this concept, the target populations for PISS subprojects
in the social sectors have been defined as follows: (a) pregnant and
lactating mothers, and children aged 0-5 years for health and nutrition
subprojects; (b) children of pre-primary and primary school age (5-12 years)
for education subprojects.
4.   In the health and nutrition sector, the objectives of PISE are to:  (i)
contribute to the reduction of mortality, morbidity and malnutrition among
children aged 0 to 5 years; and (ii) support MOR programs to strengthen
primary health care, and thus contribute to the reduction of maternal
mortallty and child mortality. In the education sector, the objectives of
PISE are tot (i) increase the coverage of targeted early childhood programs
for children under 6 years including nutrition, health and hygiene, early
stimulation and pre-school education; and (ii) support MOE progrsms for
primary education (children aged 7-12 years).
II. Proiect ComDonents
5.    PISE would finance the following types of subprojects:
6.     ealth and Nutrition Prolects:  (a) support to nutritional assistance
programs such as day care centers operated by the Social Security Institute,
MOE, and NGOs in extreme poverty areas, growth monitoring, nutritional



Page 2 of 4
surveillance and nutrition education programs; (b) development of primary
health care training programs for health promoteral (c) support to primary
health care facilities including furniture and equipment and maintenance
programs for the cold chain (vaccines); and (d) support to community health
programs such as vector control, environmental and health education.
7.    Uducation Proiects:  (a) targeted provision of educational materials, a
small school library and teacher training on management of class time, use of
materials, etc.; (b) provision and repair of school furniture (bipersonal
desks and chairs); and (c) targeted early stimulation and pre-primary non-
formal education programs consisting of training local personnel, provision of
teaching materials and furniture for pre-primary centers, and nutritional
assistance (growth monitoring and nutrition education).
III. AnXroach and Tarzeting
8.    To target resources for social projects, VISE identifies the poorest
groups among potential beneficiaries using indicators of extreme poverty
available at the municipal level:  child malnutrition rates, access to clean
water and latrines. FISK ranks departments and municipalities accorditg to
the above mentioned indicators, and allocates more resources to poorer
municipalities. In addition, as part of the criteria to select beneficiaries,
the social sectors program will use some of the following eligibility
indicators at the community level: (i) infant mortality rates, acute
respiratory infections and diarrhea incidence among children under 5 years;
(ii) severe malnutrition among children aged 0 to 5 years; (iii) percentage of
school age children (7 to 12 years) attending school; and (iv) exlsting social
servicest health centers, health posts, health promoters, primary sehool
(grades, teachers).
IV. Conditions and Recuirements for Subnroiects
9.    Besides ensuring that geographical and eligibility criteria are met,
FISE staff will be responsible for ensuring that social sector subprojects
meet the following conditions:  (a) communltv varticagation (52) through
money, kind or labor. This is one of the essential components of the social
sector subprojects to be presented for FISS financing because its (i)
mobilizes additional resources; (ii) indicates effective demand for health,
nutrition and education services through willingness to pay; and (iii)
augments the sustainability of projects; (b) contribution of s"onsorina aaoncy
(15-252) because thiss (i) would induce agencies to reveal their own
priorities for funding; (ii) would give executing agencies more of a stake in
the project; and (iii) would discourage the creation of non viable agencies
from simply taking advantage of the FISK; and (c) comnitment for sugnort of
recurrent costs by agencies who are comitted to support the project
financially beyond FISK existence (through the evaluation of the past track
record of the 100 or government agencies for similar projects in the past, and
a letter by a 100 or government agency undertaking to continue financing
recurrent costs beyond FISK support).
10.    As a general principle for social services subprojects, FISE will
require a minimum of 52 counterpart financing from beneficiaries (for example



Anne"if
Page 3 of 4
In land, physical facilities, materialo, money or time) or NGO. on an
Individual subproject basis.
V.   The Cycle of Subprolects
11.   Identification and Preagation.  The 1183 staff would play an active
role in the identification and assistance to preparation of social sector
subprojects. They would inform communities and potential executing agencies
about the alternative social sector subprojects 115 might finance, and
provide advice and technical assistance. One of their duties would be to
complete the community profile filled up by the requesting agency. They would
be responsible for ensuring coordination with relevant public sector agencies,
including arrangements for the sustainability of the subprojects beyond VISE.
12. Lvaluation. In approving social sector subprojects PISE follows the
following steps:  (a) verification that targeting critoria are met includingS
(i) location in high priority departments and municipalities; (il) beneiiieary
groups to which assistance would be directed; (iii) cost of providing the
service compared to other alternatives; and (iv) expected impact on target
populations (b) assurance that the project is sustainable by obtaining written
ag-reements by relevant public sector agencies, NGOs, municipalities, or others
to pick up recurrent costs beyond VISE; and (c) evaluation of the prospective
executing agency. VISE would evaluate: (i) the efficiency of the
subproject's purpose; (ii) the Implementation capacity of the agency
submitting the application; (iii) the agency's financial state; (iv) the cost
of the subproject independently of the estimates presented by the agency; and
(v) the ratio of administrative costs over total project cost.
13.  Imnlementation.  Scil services subprojects would be typically carried
out by NGOs. Each subproject would be covered by a three party contract among
VISE (as the funding agency), the executing agency, and the supervising agency
(if it exists). Upon subproject approval, 1183 would establish a project
account and authorize the disbursement of a advance to start up the
subproject. Schedule and conditions for subsequent disbursements would be
established at subproject approval. Subproject contracts would provide for
suspension of disbursements by VISE if the purposes of the subprojects are not
being achieved or funds are being diverted from the agreed activities.
14.  Supervision and Monitoring.  VISE supervisors would visit subprojects in
the field regularly to verify that funds are being used for the purpose for
which they were intended. Visits would be more frequent if special problems
arise or are suspected. The supervision of social sector subprojects would
assess the need for technical assistance to support and strengthen both
community organizations and NGOs' executing capacity. In addition, quarterly
operational audits would include a representative sample of social sector
subprojects.
15.  Ex-1ost Evaluation.  The demonstration of VISE's accomplishments
requires precise measurements ex-ante and ex-post. Evaluations of the-results
achieved by completed subprojects would be carried out. These evaluations
would use the baseline Information gathered at the time of project preparation
in the appraisal form, and estimate the changes In the basic indicators once
the subproject is completed, such as the number health promoters trained and



Pasge 4 of 4
the increase in school attendance rates. A database would be established for
different types of subprojects which would allow FISE to learn from
experience.
VI. Social Services Menu of Subiprojects
16.  A summary of the FISE social services subprojects is provided below.
Health and Nutrition - Support would be provided for:
Nutritional assistance programs (para. 6(a))
Growth monitoring and nutrition education
PEC training
Health promoters training
Vaccination programs and cold chain maintenance (para. 6(c))
PEC facilities with furniture & equipment and maintenance plan
Community health programs (vector control, environmental and health
education)
Education - Support would be provided for:
Pre-Primary education programs (pars. 7(c))
Primary education programs
Educational materials, libraries, teacher training
School furniture
Repair of desks and chairs
Infrastructure maintenance plan



Pase 1 of 4
lllCARAGUIA
SociAL INVEST FUM
CLASSIFICATION OF MUNICIPALITIES
DEPARTMENT                  MUNICIPALITY
EXTREME POVERTY
Jinotesa                Utwilli
Psntasma
Cua Socay
La Concordia
Zelaya Sur              C. Rio Grande
Madriz                  S.J. Gusmapa
$.J. Rio Coco
San Lucas
Yalaguina
Las Sabanas
-       Telpaneca
Z.leya Norte            Prinzapolka
Siuna
Boaco                   San Lorenzo
Santa Lucia
Matagalpo               Waslala
El Tuma aslia
;*     San Ramon
San Dionisio
Matiguas
ii ________________     Rio   Blanco
Rio San Juan            El Almendro
El Castillo
San Juan del Norte
ueva Segovia           Murra
auitali
Difzilto
Chontales               El Rams
Nueva Gufnea
S nto Domingo
Chinandega              San Francisco del Norte
Cinco Pinos
Santo Tomes N.
Lecn                    Santa Rosa del P.
El Jicaral



ii
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~a aZ
p~~~~~~~~~~~~~ _J4                        L     2||      l| 4|          a;-|ti5
_   Gtt   S.-   -   -    r                  -   -   ....  



Ann11
Paog 3 of 4
I  DEPARIHENT                 JUNICIPALRTY
Noy"agapa
Potosi
San Jorge
Rives
Chantales             Villa Sandino
N. de Los B.
San Pedro do L.
Comalapa
Acoyapa
La L1berted
Santo toma
JuiVaLpa
Leon ~    _         ._ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
ChinRnbga             V1ll ta aueva
San Pedro dt la.
Puerto Norazan
Posoltega
Chchigalpa
El RealeJo
Chirairba
L on ~~~Larreynaga
Tetica
Quezatouaque
La Paz Centro
Jairote
Leon
[Estet          ~~Pueblo Nuevo
San Juan de La may
La Trfnfdad
|Caroo                 Et Rosarfo
Dfriamba
La Paa
Santo Teresa
Dotores
Jlnotepe
I .             ~~~~San Kro
6ranad8               Nandaime
Dirimoo
_   Dlrfe



Page 4 of 4
DEPARTMENT                MUNICIPALITY
M_aya                 Tisma
Nindiri
La Concepcion
San Juan do Oriente
Noquinohan.
Managua               Villa et Carnen
San Francisco Libre
san Rafael Sur
Mateare
.________ _______ _   Tipitapa
MEDIUM POVERTY
mueva Segovia         Ocotat
ChinandWea            Corinto
Esteli                Esteti
Granada               Granada
_asay  _anya
Masatepe
Catarina
Managua               Ticuantepe
._   _    _      Managua



Annex 12
Page 1 of 4
NJICARAGUA
SOCI&L INVESTMENT FUND
THE LIVING STANRARD MEASUREMENT SURVEY (LSMS) PROGRAM
Backaround and Rationale
1.   There is a severe shortage of policy-relevant data in Nicaragua. The
last population census was carried out in 1972, the last agricultural census
available dates from 1962 as the 1972 census data was lost in the earthquake,
and the four household surveys carried out in the last seven years were
limited in scope and only covered the capital city of Managua. Population
estimates and population distributions are based on the 1972 census. In the
last decade, the civil *ar has had a major impact on population distribution
and living standards. There has been significant emigration and internal
migration and, more recently, repatriation of refugees. No up-to-date
information exists concerning the actual population of the country, its
distribution and its standard of living.
2.    The Nicaraguan government recognizes the importance of national level
data and has committed itself to strengthening the National Institute of
Statistics and Census (INEC) so that INEC can update the census maps and carry
out the national census. Evidence of the government's commitment to INEC is
the threefold increase in the Institute's budget for 1992. In June 1992, the
government approved plans to carry out a national census of population and
housing, and a national agricultural census, both to be carried out in
November 1993.
3.    In the short run, the government also intends to increase its analytical
capacity for social policy decision-making, particularly for targeting poverty
alleviation interventions and monitoring social conditions. For this purpose,
INEC irould implement a system of monitoring welfare levels, based on the
approach developed in the World Bank under its Living Standards Measurement
Survey (LSMS) program. This program would yield multi-variate household
information, at a level of geographical disaggregation convenient for
decision-makings. The first round of the program, to be fielded by December
1992, would gather household level and community level data to provide
measures of the policy interventions which affect living standards.
4.   The implementation of the LSMS program will have two significant
impacts. First, the program will provide the government of Nicaragua with the
data needed for targeting social spending to the most vulnerable groups in the
population and for developing social sector policies consistent with the
necessities and priorities of the country. Areas of specific interest for the
government of Nicaragua at present are employment, the cost of labor, the
basic basket of goods, and consumption and expenditure patterns. In addition,
the Ministries of Health and Education require data on access to services and
demand for services to help them formulate cost recovery programs. Second, the
LSMS program will have institutional benefits as it will increase the
capabilities of IEC to carry out household surveys and the national census,
as the investment in mapping, training and equipment to be undertaken for the
LSMS i transferable to the census project.



Annex 12
Page 2 of 4
PEroarm Descrintion
5.    INC plans to carry out a Living Standards Measurement Survey every two
years. The project would finance the establishment of an LSMS program
Including the first round of survey as well as impact analysis of FISE
beneficiaries. In the first stage of the program, the data to be collected is
as followas
(a)   Household levels  demographics, migration, housing, education,
health, nutrition, labor force participation, informal sector
businesses, household expenditures, and consumption.
(b) Comnun±tv levelt government services in education and health,
transportation, labor force characteristics, prices.
6.   Coverage will be at the national level with the country being divided
into seven regions; each composed of two or three departments. A total of
4200 representatives households will be included in the study.
Budtsot
7.   The project would support the implementation of the survey and its
analysis, includlng consultants, training materials, and equipment. The cost
of this project component is detailed in Table 1.
Table 1 BUDET
Component                                           US$
Mapping                                                 87,S42
Pilot Study                                             20,021
Interviews                                             269,004
Technical Assistance                                   170,000
Administration                                          16,590
Equipment and Materials                                154,513
Impact Analysiss VISE                                  208,000
Miscellaneous                                           63,000
Total                                                  988,670



Annex
Page 3 of 4
8.    The source of funds for this project is outlined in Table 2.
Tablo 2s SOURCES OF FINANCING
Source of lund.                                           US$
Government of Japan                                    170,000
UND?                                                   165,000
Government of Sweden                                   165,000
UNICEF                                                  50,000
USAID                                                   80,000
IDA                                                    208,000
Government of Nicaragua                                148,690
Total                                                  988,670
Schedule of Activitiae
9.   The following activities are expected to be completed by December 31,
1992:
(a)   Updating of 80 percent of the census maps required for the LSMS.
The remainder wvif be completed in the first quarter of 19931
(b) Revision and completion of the household and community level
questionnaire.;
(c) Completion of all training manuals.
(d)  Completion of data entry program;
(e) Purchase of all needed equipment and material.;
(f)   Miring and training of 50 interviewers, 10 supervisors, 10 data
entry persons, and 10 anthropometristsl
(g)   Pilot study of the questionnaires in both rural and urban areass
and
(b) Printing of revised questionnaires and manuals.
The actual Interviewing should be undertaken from November 1, 1992 to January
31, 1993.
10.  Partial results will be made available to the relevant Ministries by
December 31, 1992. The final data will be made available to the relevant
ministries by March 31, 1993 INIC will produce basic descriptive tables on
welfare levels by May 31, 1993. The objective is to use the data collected in
the first round of the LSOS to undertake analysis of:
(a)  overall welfare levels in the different regions of the country;
(b)   employment and the cost of labor;



Annex 12
Page 4 of 4
(c)   demand for health and education services;
(d)  malnutrition among children aged 0-5;
(e)  prevalence and functioning of informal sector; and
(f)  household consumption patterns.
Detailed analysis would be completed by March 1994.
11.   Further rounds of the study are planned.  The cost of future iterations
will be approximately US$325,000, significantly less than the first round. It
Is expected that the GON will finance the second round with, if needed, some
support in the form of technical assistance from the Bank. The timing of the
second round will depend on the progress in carrying out the national census.



Pasge 1 of 4
SOCIA IvESsh   FUND
li p    EY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS &
S-MON  (JANUARY 1-JUNE 30. 1993) WORK OGRAM
The following indicators will be the basis for the mid-term review to be
undertaken by February 28, 1994 (Annex 17).
A. 1ISK Rev Performance Indicators
.   ,                          I         ~~~~~~~~~~TARl;ETS (BASE JAN 93)
INDICATOR            SOURCE               OBJECTIVE            JUS 93         BSEC 93   1    C 94
, .... ...... I                                                                .                         ..
|_______________             .       PROJECTS - PROMOTION & APPISAL
11.  Number of        SubproJect        Determdne actual demand
subproject       databas            for FISE's financing and       500         1,000         2,000
requests                            estimate FISE's
promotion capacity
2.  Number of         SubproJeat         Determine FISE's
subprojects      database           appraisal capacity            420           840          1,600
apEraised
3.  Number of         Personnel          Assure that FISE has
evaluators       m MEnt             enough professionals           10            10           10
4.  Number of         Dividing 2 by 3   Determine FISE's
subprojects      above              marginal evaluation            42            84           160
appraised by                        capacity
evaluator
S.  Number of         Subproject         Determine relationship
subprojects      database           of projects approved to       412           824          1.569
approved       ___                  projects appraised
6.  Tota l cost of    Subproject         Determine FISE's project
subproJects      database           processing capability     $15 million  $30 million  $60 million
approved                                                                         _
7.  Percentage of    Targeting           Ascertain FISE's
total cost of    database           reaching targeting            18X           20X           20X
projects                            objectives
approved in
municipalities
with extrene
povertyt
8.  Percentage of    Targeting           Ascertain FISE's
total cost of    database           reaching targeting            55X           57X           57X
projects                            objectives
approved in
muicfpatities
with higjh
po verty-u__         _ _  _ _ _ _    __ _ _ _  _ _ _ _  _ ___                  _   _ _ _
9.  Percentage of    Targeting           Ascertain FtSE's
total cost of    databose           reaching targeting            25X           23X           23X
projects                            objectives
approved in
municipalities
mf th neigum
poverty«      __                                             __
10. Percentage of    Targeting          Ascertain FISE's
total cost of    database           reaching targeting            18X           16X           16X
projects                            obJectives
approved in
managua (part of
mediui poverty
.maicipalities)



Aunex 13
Page 2 of 4
TARGETS (BASE JAM 93)
INDICATOR             SOURCE               OBJECTIVE            JUN 93        DEC 93        DEC 94
11. Number of         Subproject         Determine posbible
subprojects with database and       bottlenecks in                 0.6           0.7           0.7
financing        procurement        procurement procedures
contract/Number  departwnt
of subprojects
approved                                                                                __        _
.__ __ ___ _ _  __SUPERVISION
12. Time span         Supervision        Determine possible
between contract database           bottlenecks in the            5 days        5 days        5 days
signing and                         supervision or
first               .adinistration
disbursement                        department
13. Number of         Supervision        Determine FISE$s
subproJects      database           productfon capacity            252           5t8          1,133
started
14. Total cost of    Supervision         Determine FISE1s
subproJects      database           production capacity         $9 million   S21 miltion  %42 mitlion
started
15. Percentage of                        Ascertain how close
subproject                          appraisal cost estimates      < 10X            OX          O10
contracts                           are to reaLity
modified because
of cost overruns
16. Accumulated       Supervision        Determine execution
disbursements    database;           levels, balance to be      S7 militon   $25 miltion  S40 million
for the period   administration    disbursed & general FISE
database           capacity to disburse in
a given time period
17. Percent of total Dividing 10 by 5  Deter ine execution
disbursements to above               levels, balance to be         47X           53X           53X
total                               disbursed & general FISE
commitments                         capacity to disburse in
_________________                  a given time period
18. Number of         Personnel          Determine FISE's
subprojects in   management &       capacity to handle its          30            30            30
actual           supervision        current commitments
executionfNumber database
of  sup-rvisor
In addition, completion of the following consultancies (Annex 14) will be
monitored:
Evaluation and Completion of MIS Implementations    March 31,  1993
Improvement of the Unviromental Assessment of
FISE-financed Subprojectst                                           April 30, 1993
Financing Forecasting                                                   June 30,  1993
Design sad Implementation of Mechanism to Evaluate
FISE-financed Subprojects'  Impact                                   August 31,  1993
L      municipalities are clsifi ed in three categories ranging from extreme to medium poverty according to
population size and a poverty index ccoposed of displaced population, child malnutrition, and water
supply indicators. Population is distributed among the three categories of nmnicipalities as follows:
14X in municipalities with extreme poverty, 53X in municipalities with high poverty, and 331 in
-micipalities with medium poverty.



Ann-ex 13
Page 3 of 4
B. Six-Month (Jnuary 1-J_ne 30. 1993) Work Proaram
SUDPROECTS APPROVED                  jNWIER                            (USSNILL IN
SOCIAL INFRASTRUCTURE
Primary Schools                                                            100                       3.00
Secondary Schools                                                            7                       0.77
Tedhnical Schools & Vocational Centers                                       3                       0.27
Prfmary Health Centers                                                      51                        1.16
Other Health Centers                                                         2                       0.13
Day Care Centers                                                            11                       0.27
Other School FecilIties                                                      1                       0.13
Basic Mater !Mtl                                                           18                        1.54
Sanitary Se"er System                                                       22                       0.77
ECONOMIC INFRASTRUCTURE                 _        _      _
Drainage Systems                                                             8                       0.69
Road Improvement                                                           21                        1.78
Bridges                                                                      7                       0.13
Munipal Markets                                                              4                       0.27
Municipal Slaughterhouses                                                    3                       0.13
Erosion Control                                                              2                       0.18
Forestation Programs                                                         1                       0.40
Plague Control Programs                                                      1                       0.01
SOCIAL SERVICES                      _
School Desks & Library Materials                                            53                        0.90
Latrines Programs                                                           29                       0.90
Preventive Health Care                                                       1                       0.20
Nutritional Programs                                                        3                        0.27
Health Care EIu1pment                                                       58                       0.57
Water   nmnt Training                                                       11                        0.05
Vocatiat-Tecmh,,at Training                                                  3                        0.07
coamaity Training for Maintenance                                           50                        0.40
Others                                                                     N/A                        0.01
TOTAL                                                                     470                       15.00
C. IUC. M, MOE. HOF Rey Performance Indicator.
INDICATORS
COOMPCIIEII/AOENCY        _              YEAR I                              YEAR 2
LUIS and FISE Impact valuation   Completion of 1st round LSOS by        FISE fmpact evaluation completed
(IMEC)                             arch 31. 1993                        by January 31, 1994
Technical assistance to MNO       PNC facilities rehabilitation
(NOR)                             program curpleted by March 31, 1993
Projects preparation unit organized  Ratio of subprojects approved by
and staffed by June 30, 19           FISE to subprojects presented by
MoON f 0.8
Maintenance spstems established,     Maintenance system  in operation
units staffed and trained
Technical assistance to MOE       Schools rehabilitation program
(OE)                              completed by JulY 31. 1993
Projects prepration unit organized Ratio of subproJects approved by
and staffed by June 30, 1993         FISE to subprojects presented by
NME of 0.8



Annex 13
Page 4 of 4
MaintInane  systems established,    Maintenance systems in operation
_____________________________ units staffed and trained              __ __
Technical assistance to Social    Compliance with actions put forth
Sector Reform & Management (NOF)  in Social Sector Policy Letter
(March 31, 1993)
Presentation to IDA of Social        Review of progress in
Sector Strategy Docunment (Nay 31    implementation of social sector
1993)                                strategy
Proposal for strengthening planning  Progress in implementation plan
and budgeting functions, and
budgeting and accounting units in
the MON and MO, including an
ioplementation plan
Analysis and proposal of cost-       Progress in implementation plan
recovery mechanisms and regulations
in the health and education sector,
including implementation ptan     _
Analysis of the costs and financing  Progress on resource allocation
of priority program (PUC, primary   to priority programs
education)                         _



Aas&_14
Page 1 of 6
NICARAGUA
SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE TO FISH
1.   Nature and Ob1ectives of the Technical Assistance to be provided by IDB
and UNDP
1.1. The present technical assistance contract between IDB, UNDP and FISE has
been reviewed and found satisfactory. As this contact will expire in December
1992 a second phase technical assistance package to be financed by IDBIUNDP is
currently being negotiated between FISK and both agencies. The technical
assistance contract is expected to cover three years of operations of FISK,
i.e., 1993, 1994, and 1995 which are the years of operation of FISE
contemplated under the proposed project. The purpose of this annex is to
describe the general terms of the expected contract based upon: (i) FISE's
analysis of the technical assistance needs over the next two years and (ii)
preliminary indications from IDB and UNDP of the assistance they would be
prepared to provide. A negotiated technical assistance contract between FISE
and IDBIUNDP, satisfactory to IDA, is a condition of negotiations of the IDA
Credit. A signed technical assistance contract is a condition of
effectiveness. Experience with technical assistance and need and
possibilities for extension will be reviewed at the mid-term review.
1.2. The IDB/UNDP second phase technical assistance package would be oriented
to (i) complete some tasks of the first technical assistance contract not yet
fully completed during the first two years of FISE implementation and, (ii)
support the strengthening of FISE for the expected expansion of their
operations. The IDB technical assistance is included as part of a proposed
loan of US$16 million. The UNDP technical assistance of US$0.4 million would
be provided under a tecbnical assistance contract between IIDP and FISK.
1.3. Tasks to be completed under (i) above, can be summarized as follows:
(a)  Continue to train personnel in their respective areas and
departments through internal workshops, permanent information
exchange among FISE departments and between FISE, IDB, WUDP and
IDA.
(b) Continue to improve subprojects request forms and operational
manuals based on experience in implementation of subprojects and
inputs from executing agencies.
(c) Complete the implementation of the computerized management
information systems, specifically in the areas of subproject
regionalized unit cost appraisal, costibenefit analysis,
supervision control and accounting, by recruiting, if necessary,
short term consultants. Train personnel to use the MIS.
(d) Complete the preparation of operational manuals based on the
experiences of other similar SIP operations and the acquired FISK
experience.



Anmne4
Page 2 of 6
(e) Strengthen the capacity of executing and requesting agencies
(public and private) to design, execute and supervise subprojects
susceptible of 118F financing by, among other activities, financing
training workshops, exchanging FISK experience and establishing
adequate communication channels between FIS and executing
agencies.
(f) Continue helping FISK mobilize external funds by coordination donor
participation, and supporting FI8H's efforts and negotiations with
donor agencies.
To strengthen FISH future operations, the following activities would be
undertaken:
(g) Improve FI8B's promotional capacity in accordance vith their
targeting objectives and maintain the corresponding control
mechanisms.
5h) Establish a mechanism to monitor and evaluate the inpact of FISS-
financed subprojects through short-term consultant services and
training of FISE staff.
(i) Improve the design and operations of the Social Services subproject
program by selecting and recruiting qualified and motivated staff.
(j) Strengthen the promotion and evaluation departomet by selecting and
recruiting additional qualified staff in sufficient numbers to
handle the exaected increase in subproject requests, and providing
for their proper training, equipmset (vehicles and computers) and
office support.
(k) Strengthen the supervision department so as to ensure the quality
of the subprojects by selecting and recruiting additional qualified
staff in sufficient numbers to handle the expected number of
subprojects to. be executed during the 1993-1994 period. In
addition, provide the supervision department with the appropriate
number of vehicles (one per supervisor) and computers for
supervision subproject control.
(1) Implement a cash flow control and financial forecasting aschanism
in the administration finance department by selecting and
recruiting a financial analyst as part of the administration
department staff and providing this staff with a personal
computer.
(i) Design the necessary standard reports to be distributed Internally
and to external funding agencies and the Government of Nicaragua by
involving all department heads.
(n) Strengthen the coordination mechanisms with sector Ministries and
other agencies through regular meetings, workshops, and other
means.



Page 3 of 6
1.4. IDB and UNDP would provide the necessary support by (i) continuing to
finance long term professional staff; (ii) helping FISS select and recruit new
professional personnel; (lii) providing experienced short term consultants;
(iv) covering part of travel and general office expenses; and (v) providing
the necessary equipment to carry out a satisfactory operation.
1.5. FISE, IDB and UNDP would establish the most appropriate implementation
mechanism to provide PISE with a regular flow of funds and ensure that
operations are carried out smoothly. Funds would be disbursed by IDBIUNDP to
a FISE revolving fund and would be replenished on the basis of justification
of eligible expenses to be provided by FISS through the necessary expense
reports and statements.
II. Estimated Oneratina and Tachbical Assistance Costs
2 '1 The operating and technical assistance budget for the two year program
has been estimated at US$4.2 million and would be financed thTough (i) a
technical assistance contract between IDBIUNDP and FISH totalling about US$2.5
million; (ii) regular transfers of counterpart funds from Government reaching
at least US$1.3 million over the project life, and (iii) tecbnical assistance
support from IDA of US$0.6 million to be Included as part of the proposed
Credit of US$15 million. A sumary of the costs and the financial plan is
provided in the followlng tables:
PROJECTS OPERATING COSTS AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
(US$ million)
CATEGORY                                   1993        1994       TOTAL
Salaries & Personnel ExVenses                0.93         0.94        1.87
Consultants' services                        0.30         0.30        0.60
General Office Expenses                      0.18         0.23        0.41
Transportation Costs                          0.13        0.17        0.30
Office Rent & Maintenance                    0.07         0.08        0.15
Public Services                              0.15         0.17        0.32
Fixed Assets - Equipment                     0.20         0.15        0.35
TOTAL                                         1.96        2.04        4.00
FINACIN  PLA
FOR OPERATING COSTS AND TECgHICAL ASSISTANCE
(US$ million)
CATEGORY                    IDB/UNDP      GO           IDA        TOTAL
Salaries & Personnel
Expenses                        1.41         0.46                    1.87
Consultants' Services            0.15                     0.45        0.60
General Office Expenses          0.31         0.10                    0.41
Transportation Costs             0.06         0.24                    0.30
Office Rent & Maintenance        0.01         0.14                    0.15
Public Services                               0.32                    0.32
Fixed Assets - Equipment         0.16         0.04        0.15        0.35
TOTAL                            2.10         1.30        0.60        4.00



Annex 14
Page 4 of 6
III. IDA'. Technical Assistance Supnort
3.1. IDA's support, which will complement that of IDB/IUNDP and GON, would
include: (i) financing of external auditing services (US$0.15 million); (ii)
consultants' services (US$0.30 million); and (iii) equipment (US$0.15 million)
as described below:
(a) External annual and quarterly auditing services for 1993 and 1994;
(b) Consultants' Services to cover the areas described below:
(i)   Evaluation and Cowl.etion of the MIS Implementation
Terms of Reference
-     In view of FISE's expected increase in the number of
subprojects to be processed, assess the MIS' capacity to
bandle network processing of subproject unit costs.
Assess the supervision control system so as to ensure FISE's
capacity to keep track of the expected large number of
projects to be executed. Also, assess the system capacity to
aross reference budget control and disbursement orders with
the administrative system.
Assess the accounting computerized system capacity to process
the expected large number of transaction, to produce
financial statements, expense reports, to post transactions
automatically by source of funds and other indicators.
-     Assess the overall system capacity, network and linkage
possibilities.
-     Assess FTSE's operational procedures applied in the use of
the MIS in the different departments.
-     Assess FISE's personnel training in the use of the systems.
-     Assess the MIS capacity to produce adequate reports and key
performance indicators as requested by IDA and other donors.
Design those complementary reports that may be needed.
-     In close consultation with the MIS department head, determine
the needs for changes or improvements in any or all of the
systems.
-     Working with the MIS department programmers, design and
implement the needed complementary computer programs.



Page 5 of 6
Ezoected Date of Consultancv
Four-week consultancy to be completed by March 31, 1993
Improvement of the Environmental Assessment of the FISK-
financed Suboroiects
Terms of Reference
Verify that FISE's procedures for environmental assessment of
subprojects are adequately applied
In light of experience, ascertain needs for improvement in
Operational Manual
Expected Date of Consultancv
Two-week assignment to be completed by April 30, 1993
(iii) Desian and Imolement a Mechanism to valuate FISE-financed
Subproiect'  Impact
Terms of Reference
Determine an adequate subproject sample to be used for the
design of the impact evaluation mechanism.
Establish the guidelines and requirements to determine
adequate subprojects samples.
Design the impact evaluation mechanism applicable to each
type of subproject in accordance with the sampling procedure.
Ensure that FISE personnel is aware of the developments in
the subproject impact evaluation area.
Ensure that FISE creates a Unit within the supervision
department to be trained by the consultant in the use of the
impact evaluation mechanisms.
Mechanisms to be designed by the consultants should include
input from FISE, executing agencies and beneficiaries.
Expected Date of Consultancv
Six-week assignment to be completed by August 31, 1993



Annex 14
Page 6 of 6
(IV) F"inncial Forecastin.
Term of Refer=ge
Assess the administration - accounting computerized system In
relation to its capacity to produce updated cssh flow
Information.
Train 1183's administrative and financial personnel in
analyzing cash flow trends for source of funds disbursements,
operating and techiacal assistance costs and subprojects (per
project type) disbursements.
Based on the above analysis design and implement a
computerized ei4bursement forecasting - programming mechanism
for operating -and technical assistance costs and subprojects
(per project type).
-The programing mechanism for subproject disbursements should
take into account subproject execution delays, total
execution time and estimated costs per subproject type.
The programming mechanism should also take into account
1163's capacity to evaluate projects during a specific period
of tie.
As a result:, 118  should have a complete financial
forecasting system to be used as part of FIS3's decislon
making process.
Ixnected Date of Consultancv
Three-veek consultancy to be completed by June 30, 1993
(c) IDA will finace the purchase of 6 to 8 vehilels and 5 to 8
personal computers for the evaluation and supervision departments.



h-J"
?ago 1 Of 2
SOCIAL IUVKSTMINT FUND
TUCENICAL ASSISTANCE TO MOSI FS 01E HELTH & EDUCgT&O
1    This techbical asaistance component of the project would strengthen MMI
and MOE's capacity to plan and prepare subprojects. This would be undertaken
throughs (L) a mapping of the country's health and education infrastructure,
(ii) technical assistance and training in preparation and evaluation of
subprojects eligible for financing through PISS or other sources, and (i1)
technical assistance to MRN and MOB to strengthen their capacity to saintain
facilities with community participation. Funds would be diebursed to MMO and
MOE who would be responsible for the implementation of this component.
2.   The coat of this component is estimated as followst
Inventory of facilities:                   835,000
T.A. for project preparation:              800,000
T.A. for maintenance of subprojects:       200 000
Total                    1,835,000
S. The project would finance a complete inventory of Nicaragua's 800 health
posts and centers and 4,080 primary schools. The inventory would proide the
actual location of each facility, its physical status, availability and
condition of equipment, and a description of the rehabilitation, expaniou or
reconstruction requirements for each facility. The Information would be
computerized in a data base that would be regularly updated. The inventory
would furnish the basic information required to prepare cost estimates and
bidding technical documents that would be used by MWE and MOE to prepare
project requests to be submitted for financing through P188, the Governmst
budget or other sources. The project would also finance computer equipment
and training of MMN and MOE staff in the use, updating, amd mainteAt eAce of the
computerized database of physical facilities.
4. The second part of this technical assistance vould consist in more
specific technical assistance to MWE and MOE to help them propare and evaluato
subprojects eligible for F18E finaneing. A team of consultants would trait
the personnel of the planning departments of NON and MMe In project
preparation and appraisal, focussing on technical, financial, and social
aspects. The consultauts and the ministries' staff would use a sample of
actual projects and would prepare and evaluate them using criteria jointly
agreed between FI8K and each ministry. During the course of the training
program, to be undertaken In close collaboration with 1183, improvemnts would
be made to the evaluation methodology, when applicable, and these impwovnnts
would be reflected through an updating of the manual. of 118B and the line
ministries.
5. The third part of the technical assistance would set up an adequate
system for preventive and corrective maiatenance (thorugh local user
committees or the ministrieso' staff as required) and train MON and MMS staff
in charge of implementing the system.



Annex 15
Page 2 of 2
6.   This component would have three important benefits.  First, it would
help improve the quality of subprojects presented to FISE by MOR and NOE, thus
facilitating appraisals by FISE and cutting down the time between subproject
identification and approval. Second, it would build up the institutional
capacity of NOR and MOE in terms of project selection, preparation, and
evaluation, thus providing to these ministries long-term benefits beyond the
existence of FISE. Third, it would help NOH and MOE improve maintenance of
subprojects by strengthening their capacity to maintain facilities with
comunity participation.



Annex 16
Page 1 of 2
NICARAGUA
SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE FOR SOCgIA SECTOR BUDGETING & FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
Technical Assistauce for Social Sector Budaetint and Einancial Manatment
I.   Background and Rationale
1.  Notwithstanding important improvements in economic performance and
policies over the last year, the Nicaraguan economy remains fragile and highly
vulnerable to external shocks. Government institutions are weak and have
limited capacity to design, implement and monitor policies and programs. To
set the stage for sustainable growth and advance toward external viability,
the Government has formulated a program for 1992-1995 which aims at
consolidating stabilization, deepening structural adjustment, and
strengthening management capacity in Government institutions. To continue the
reduction in overall public expenditures and improve the efficiency of
resource utilizu-ion, particular emphasis will be placed on the institutional
strengthening of the social sector. This issue is at the center of the
Government's social sector policy (Annex 2) and IDA's assistance strategy for
the social sector (paras. 2.15-2.16).
2. One of the areas where reform is most needed in the MOE and MOE is in
the budgeting and financial management. Budget policy and financial
management are limited because: (a) budget negotiations occur without
consideration of sectoral priorities; (b) budgets are not broken down in ways
which would permit meaningful analysis of resource allocation by programs, and
hence targeting of resources to priority areas; and (c) foreign assistance is
inaaequately managed -- it is not reflected in ministerial budgets, no
mechanisms are in place to ensure the availability of counterpart funds, and
no assessment is made of the recurrent cost implications of the proposed
investments. The latter problem is of particular concern in health and
education because these are sectors highly intensive in labor and operating
inputs. Not having reliable and systematic information, technically competent
staff, and appropriate budgetary procedures, the MOR and MOE are not able to
conduct the planning/prioritization and monitoring functions that are
necesaary to ensure that budgetary resources and foreign aid are actually
consistent with Governmont priorities.
II. Ob-lectives
3. The objectives of this technical assistance component are to improve
budgeting and financial management in the MOR and MOE, and help refine their
policy formulation capacities. In order to coordinate this component across
the social sectors, the technical assistance would be implemented through the
MOV. The MOP would carry the primary responsibility for sector policy and
budgetary coordination, and would undertake to make the technical assistance
services available to the line ministries. The component would finance
consultancy services, training and computer equipment.
4.   Specifically, the technical assistance woulds  (i) strengthen the
investment and expenditure planning/prioritization function in the MOE and



Annex 16
Page 2 of 2
MOE linking both to the budgeting function; (ii) strengthen and restructure
budget ;,nagsement by reconditioning the budgeting and accounting units in the
MgN and WOE bsaed on MOF expenditure control guidelines; and (iii) establish
an effective mechansim to coordinate and control foreign aid. To improve
investment and expenditure planning/prioritisation in the MOR and MOE,
asistace would be provided for each sector to revise the budget nomenclature
and budget preparation procedures. Several steps vould be taken to improve
budgetary formulation In the MOW and MOE, focussing on the allocation between
wages, goods and services, recurrent and investment expenditure, and transfers
and subsidies. The budgetary nomenclature would be revised so that the major
types of expenditures are identified and reclassified into homogeneous
categories, and the recurrent cost element in the investment budget would be
Identified and properly accounted for in the ordinary budget. Expenditure
programs would be prepared to assist the Government in the preparation of a
sound public investment program (PIP) in the social sector. Analyses of the
costs and financing of priority activities and programs would be undertaken,
evaluating the performwnce of programs and identifying and budgeting recurrent
costs. Procedures would be gradually Improved to permit the preparation of a
consolidated budget that covers all sources and uses of public funds.
5.  In addition, this technical assistance would finance specific studies
that would help the MON and MOE to refine their sectoral strategies. Areas
for study already identified include, inter alis, development of cost-recovery
mechanism and regulations for the use of these revenues, reorientation of
staffing patterns In the health sector, financial analysis of the budgetary
implications of the Teachers' Law, and options for privatization of services
both In the health and education sectors.
IIU. Estimated Technical Assistance Costs
6. Thirty person/months of technical assistance per sector along with 20
person/months for the specific studies would be financed by the component.
[See proposed schedule of activities in Annex 13.1 The total cost is
estimated as followst
USa
T.A. for the health sector                  300,000
T.A. for the education sector               300,000
Specific studies                            200.000
Total                                       800,000
7.  This component would have four liportant benefits. First, it would
provide the social sector ministries with the necessary tools for improving
budgeting and accounting practices and financial management, thus promoting
efficiency In resource utilisation. Second, it would support poverty
alleviation efforts by targeting government social expenditures towards
programs that benefit most the poor. Third, it would help the Government
target foreign aid towards agred priorities. And fourth, it would help
advance the Government's fiscal adlustment program by supporting the reform of
the MOg and MoE which together represent over a third of public spending.



Page 1 of 3
SOCIAL IMSNT FUMD
TERMS OF REPERENCE FOR MID-TERM REVIEW
TERMS OF REPERENCE
Background
1.  The purpose of the mid-term review is to evaluate project performance
during implementation, to provide project management with immediate feedback
on project achievement as well as on areas needing improvement, which would
lead to corrective actions and even possible changes in project design. The
mid-term review also serves to document the status of project execution for
the benefit of the Borrower and the financing agencies. The mid-term review
procedure consists of an initial period of approximately two weeks when
specialists contracted by the Borrower collect data and ru,view information
assembled by the project management since the beginning of project
implementation, focusing on teecnical, administrative, and financial aspects
of the project (this includes regular monitoring information). Field visits
to subprojects sites are part of this process. Following this fact-finding
period, the review team analyzes the information collected, reviews process
against original targets, and prepares a brief report highlighting strengths
and weaknesses, and makes recommendations for management action. The mid-term
review team then joins the project management to discuss its findings and
recommendations, and arrive at concrete agreements regarding targets to be
reached and changes to be made in project management and implementation.
Obiectives of the Mid-term review
2.  The mid-term review would cover all four components of the project: (i)
financing of FISE subprojects; (ii) Living Standards Measurement Survey; (iii)
tecenical assistance to MOR and MOE; and (iv) technical assistance to improve
budgeting and financial management in social sector ministries. In addition,
the mid-term review would assess progress in compliance with actions expected
to be taken by the CON as specified in the social sector policy letter (Annex
2). In the case of VISE, the review would use a set of monitoring and project
implementation indicators (Annex 12) and focus on the following areas: (i)
the targeting of FISE funds (in order to channel more resources to poorer
municipalities; (i) the quality of the subprojects financed by VISE; (iii)
the impact of FISE-financed subprojects; (iv) the administrative efficiency
sand the financial soundness of the operations of FISE; (v) experience with
technical assistance from IDB and UNDP and assessment of need for extension;
(vi) the quality of consultancies undertaken with technical assistance from
the proposed IDA credit; and (vii) the extent to which the experience of VISE
can be transmitted to strengthen social ministries and improve their
operations, and to agree on remedial actions, if necessary.
Comgosition of the Mid-Term Team
3. The IDA mid-term review team would be led by the task manager and would
include: (i) an engineer to review social and economic infrastructure
subprojects; (ii) a social scientist, with extonsive project ewperience, to



Anne-Z 
Page 2 of 3
review social services subprojects; (iii) an economist, with intensive
experience in project impact analysis, to review the impact of the FISE
subprojects based on a sample survey and other data; (iv) a management
specialist, with experience in management information systems, financial
analysis, and procurement, to review the administrative and financial aspects
of the operation of FISS; (v) a statistician to assist in assembling and
processing data; (vi) an LSMS specialist; (vii) a specialist in institution
building to, review technical assistance to 40 and MH0; and (viii) a public
budgeting specialist to review technical assistance to MOF.
Specific Aspects to be Reviewed in each Area
4. The review of tarxetina wouldt (i) compare the amount of funds
channelled by FISE by municipalities classified in three degrees of poverty
(extreme, high and medium) with the amounts allocated at the start of the
project; (ii) determine the degree to which the targeting objectives have been
reached; (iii) review measures taken by FISE to improve channeling of funds to
poorer municipalities; and (iv) make recommendations for improvements and
reach agreements, when applicable.
S.   The techical review of the three subproject categories will include
assessments of: (i) the quality'of subprojects; (ii) the sustainability of
subprojects; (iii) the size and distribution of subprojects; (iv) the
procedures for processing subprojects from identification to supervision; (v)
the observance of criteria established in the Operational Manual for
subproject identification, appraisal and supervision; (vi) efficiency of
subproject execution, procurement, and contractual practices; (vii) proportion
of a subproject category in the overall portfolio of FISE and comparison with
proportion expected at appraisal; and (viii) institutional capacity of
executing agencies.
6.   The impact analysis to be completed by January 31, 1994 will be based on
monitoring and evaluation data collected by FISE and by other agencies,
including national household sample surveys, and sample surveys of FISE
beneficiaries. The'analysis will focus on: (i) the extent to which PISS
allocates investments in accordance with the targeting criteria established at
appraisal; (ii) direct and indirect benefits of the subprojects financed by
FISE in the communities affected; (iii) estimation of employment generated by
FISE; (iv) estimation of the institutional impact of FISK on executing
agencies; (v) eventual negative impact of subprojects; and (vi) replicability
of the FISE targeting mechanism for social investments in other governmental
agencies.
7.   The administrative and financial review will focus on:  (i) overall
performance of FISE departments; (ii) personnel administration, remuneration
scale, recruitment and retention of quality staff; (iii) accounting procedures
and results of financial audits; (iv) efficiency of management information
systems; (v) analysis of overhead costs to determine whether FISE is achieving
its objectives in a cost-effective way; (vi) financial projections; (vii)
procurement and contract administration; (viii) disbursements of funds for
subprojects; (ix) disbursements of external loan funds; (x) distribution of
expenditures by sources of funds; (xi) co-financing arrangements; (xii)



Annex 17
Page 3 of 3
enforcement of financial controls; and (xiii) coordination between FISE, line
ministries and agencies.
8.   At the time of the mid-term review, the Living Standards Measurement
Survey would have been completed including the 4,200 households, community and
price questionnaires. All these data from the survey would be available in a
database and preliminary reports would be done and circulated. This material
would be used to validate FISE's poverty indicators and targeting mechanisms.
9.   The review of technical assistance to MOR and MOE will focus on:  (i)
assessment in improvement of project preparation; and (li) extent to which
maintenance agreements between social ministries, FISE, and local user
committees are functioning.
io. The review of technical assistance to MOF will assess: (i) improvement
in investment and expenditure planning; (ii) strengthening of budgeting and
accounting units in MOR and MOE; and (iii) implementation of mechanism to
coordinate foreign aid.



Annex 18
Page 1 of 1
NICARAGUA
SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND
DOCUMENTS IN THE PROJECT FILE
A.I. Nicaraaua - Social Sector Report
Republic of Nicaragua, Social Sector, Issues and Recommendations, Green
Cover Report dated August 3, 1992, Report No. 19671-NI.
A.2. FISE Document Presented at March 1992 Consultative Group Meeting
Document dated March 23, 1992 presenting FISE's objectives and approach,
action plan for 1992-95, investment programs, institutional structure,
and methods of operation.
A.3. FISE Targeting Mechanism
FISE targeting mechanism and program to channel funds to municipalities
in 1993 and 1994, based on a poverty index, dated September 1992.
A.4. =Social Investment Fund: Documents and Manuals
FISE - Reglamento de Contrataciones de Obras
FISE - Operational Manual dated September 1992
FISE - Agreement with Ministry of Education, dated July 27, 1992
FISE - Agreement with Ministry of Health, dated July 27, 1992
PISE - Agreement with INAA, dated August, 1992
A.5. Studies
Terms of Reference for techni^al assistance to MOH and MOE to improve
project preparation, dated August 27, 1992.



e
MAP SECTION
0 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    



.0   4
NICARAGUA
ACCESS TO WATER AND SANITATION                                             H-ON DURAS
BY REGION (1985)                                                                                  WAN 9AwO
i~Rcenta  of hselilds wbhoutacoess                    £o-l0boun
t ale d sanitatonw                                                                                                      Reio , ,-  der 
[Z         - 109. 20%  =Z]40%- c50%                                               .                                                tna tcopi
0   Citiand tov
F~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RT LAOO ICA FION6 EA SEA                                                             
20$.-40%    =     W>e                                                                           0   20  40  60  80  100 120  14  160
So"i~~; NMLP b rW ot Ens $oi4wro4i Nmg , 198&
kkas ad.,t rbo emAWt  b  iw                                                                                     a                                           4
REGIO               ON sl  900tD   >   REGIONV           \              M     Oe2
\ * A G  ,, CHpNTAE ES   \  gLASp.
R ; O N   \    <        ,               j      ,ieos sAr                 2     + J <~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~HNDRA
EL#~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E
w in < N I C     U     U      G       M~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .          40            10014  12   10  
.        ~~~PACIEL OCEAN           an Juan delSr    ;    _ 9latico.                                                                           .. ._
MATAGALPA ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OT
20           40  < o    so 0oo 0  6
s . ORAI CO                                                                or A0   PACJrC ^CEAN
X  .  .     w         s                                       5    W       \                 e      _                   w    8     ,2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~U.B
a.



NICARAGUA                                                             843
REGIONAL POVERTY (1985)                                           HONDURAS
rentoge of households in povetly                                              0
=E150%-<60%    =        70%-<80%                                       ost -                                                   \ bounas
PAN: -==o- -                                               :    Recion bondais
60% . <70Y    =          > 80% tla:\@N
Sowc  C bECtd on   _buest Sodeomer6floNiee tcma, 1985.                                                                     0   cd1ieedowon
' T rnescdto    d      o  ds                        b 0h ofeaomf°{  
ondnp<ffnorg ~"=l,dg -nb                                                                                               International¢ boundaries
rc  s m  earn. room
vt Nv6VA  5    Jl" OtE        G     A            <        y XKe  AU ItN           CARMSEAN JSEA
JNTEGA / 
MANVC0M
4          0,  2   40  40  SD  100 120 140 16D
ego   LE6N ~    ~     00                                                                    0      D     0      o      J
ION  °   KE  \       A  REGIONDU1._
Z  t. ;-                   tftcr I
z AYA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
PAC/FIC OCEAN                   BOACC C S > C H  S0 CJo    C A      . . \ RSNv GCR  8AY               Arera of Mop
0 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~    ~ ~         
9 _ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ^~~~~4                                                  SANI LJANDrN'}v a.~,  . . . Iv
it}~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CRSA SRI CA4\w     
puf.~~~~~~~~~~~~~I. LLb ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~        ~       ~       ~       ~         5  0
TALES                                                      HONDt&   delNoAS
Son UbaW            BMFIEU)S aAY   ~      ~     U.                       t..
LAKE ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~' 



