Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 16428
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA
SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
(Credit 2434-NI)
March 28, 1997
Central America Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = C6rdoba (C)
Average Exchange Rates
1991 C$4.3534=US$1.00
1992 C$5.0000 = US$1.00
1993 C$6.1206 = US$1.00
1994 C$6.7245 = US$1.00
1995 C$7.5315 = US$1.00
1996 C$8.2356 = US$1.00
1995 SDR 1.00 = US$1.5758
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
July I - June 30
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
COSUDE    Swiss Development Corporation
FISE         Social Emergency Investment Fund (Fondo de Inversion Social de Emergencia)
GDP          Gross Domestic Product
GON          Government of Nicaragua
ICR          Implementation Completion Report
IDA          International Development Association
IDB          Inter-American Development Bank
IMF          International Monetary Fund
INAA        Nicaraguan Institute for Water and Sewerage
INEC         National Institute of Statistics and Census
INIFOM       Nicaraguan Institute for Municipal Development
KfW          German Credit Institute for Reconstruction
LCB          Local Competitive Bidding
LSMS         Living Standards Measurement Survey
MED          Ministry of Education
MIFIN        Ministry of Finance
MINSA        Ministry of Health
NGO          Nongovernmental Organization
SIDA         Swedish International Development Agency
SIF I        Social Investment Fund Project, Credit 2434-NI
SIF II       Second Social Investment Fund Project, Credit 2767-NI
UNDP         United Nations Development Programme
USAID        United States Agency for International Development
Vice President          Shahid Javed Burki
Director                Donna Dowsett-Coirolo
Country Sector Leader    Ana-Maria Arriagada
Staff Member            Willem Struben



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Contents
Page
PREFACE
EVALUATION SUMMARY                                                                                                ii
PART ONE: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT .................................................1
INTRODUCTION .1
PROJECT OBJECTIVES ...............................................                                                 1
ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES .................................................2
Poverty Reduction ................................................................................................. ......................... .................2
Project Results ...........3
Institutional Development ..........................................                                            4
Private Sector Development ...........................................5
Living Standards Measurement Survey (LSMS) ...........................................6
Project Design ..........................................6
MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT ........................................7
Faactors Not Generally Subject to Government Control ................7...........................
Factors Generally Subject to Government Control .......8...................................8
Factors Generally Subject to FISE Control ..........................................  8
PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY .........................................8
IDA PERFORMANCE ..........................................9
Identification ..................................................9
Preparation Assistance ............................         ,       ..9
Appraisal .............................9
Supervision .............................9
BORROWER PERFORMANCE ..0......................... l
Prreparation .JO............................
Implementation ............................                                                                    10
ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME ........................... 13
FuTTURE OPERATION ........................... 13
KEY LESSONS LEARNED ........................... 13
PART TWO: STATISTICAL DATA ...........................                                                           15
Appendixes:   A.          Mission's aide memoire
B.      FISE Contribution to the ICR
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
perfonnance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA
SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
(Credit 2434-NI)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the first Social Investment Fund
Project in Nicaragua, for which Credit 2434-NI in the amount of SDR17.3 million (US$25.0 million
equivalent) was approved on January 21, 1993, and made effective on June 18, 1993.
The Credit was closed on September 30, 1996, compared with the original closing date of
December 31, 1995. As of January 31 1997, an amount equivalent to US$25.1 million had been
disbursed, and the remaining balance of US$184,000 equivalent was canceled as of that day.
Cofinancing for the project was provided by the Federal Republic of Germany through the German
Credit Institute for Reconstruction (KfW), the Government of Sweden through the Swedish
International Development Agency (SIDA), the Government of Switzerland through the Swiss
Development Corporation (COSUDE), the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB), the U.S.
Agency for International Development (USAID), and the Government of Nicaragua (GON) and
municipalities.
The ICR was prepared by Mr. Willem Struben, Task Manager, LASHD, of the Latin America
and the Caribbean Regional Office, with the help of Ms. Anna Webb and Mr. Kevin Rost (consultants),
and was reviewed by Ms. Eleanor Schreiber, LASHD, and Ms. Kreszentia Duer, Lead Operations
Specialist, LADCN. The borrower provided commnents that are included as an appendix to the ICR.
Preparation of this ICR was begun during IDA's completion mission, in early September 1996.
It is based on material in the project file, in addition to discussions with the borrower. The borrower
contributed to the preparation of the ICR by presenting views reflected in the mission's aide-memoire,
compiling statistical data, preparing an evaluation of the project's implementation, and commenting on
the draft ICR. The major cofinancing agencies (IDB, KfW, and COSUDE) reviewed the draft
document, and their comments have been incorporated.






Evaluation Summary
SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
(Credit 2434-NI)
REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA
Introduction
Since 1991, following a decade of civil strife, the Government of Nicaragua (GON) has
implemented a comprehensive stabilization and adjustment program.  The Emergency Social
Investment Fund (FISE) was established by the Government in November 1990, as a temporary social
safety net program to help protect and improve the standard of living of marginal social groups during
the period of economic adjustment through the provision of employment and social and economic
infrastructure and services. FISE has been directly supported by the International Development
Association (IDA) under the first and second Social Investment Fund (SIF) Projects and by other
multilateral and bilateral donors.
Project Objectives
The objectives of the first Social Investment Fund Project (SIF I), Credit 2434-NI, were to
help GON sustain its poverty alleviation efforts, and maintain social cohesion during the period of
economic adjustment, until line ministries could strengthen their institutional capacities, and complete
policy reform programs. To the extent feasible, the methods of operation, procedures, and experience
of FISE would be transferred gradually to social ministries to help them improve efficiency and equity
of service delivery. The IDA Credit was also intended as a channel to mobilize further international
assistance.
The project had four components: (a) the financing, through FISE, of a range of small-scale
subprojects in social and economic infrastructure and social services; (b) technical assistance to the
National Institute of Statistics and Census (INEC) to implement a Living Standards Measurement
Survey (LSMS); (c) technical assistance to strengthen the capacity of the Ministry of Health (MINSA)
and Ministry of Education (MED) to prepare subprojects; and (d) technical assistance to help the
Government, through the Ministry of Finance (MIFIN), to improve budgeting and financial
management capacity in the social ministries. At appraisal, the total project cost was estimated at
US$68 million; the operating costs of the executing agencies were estimated at 5.9 percent of total
project cost.'
The project objectives were consistent with the country assistance strategy to help alleviate
poverty in Nicaragua, and the project complemented other IDA-financed projects directed at poverty
reduction. The project design was appropriate to achieving project objectives; it incorporated the
standard features of social investment funds, which are well-tested. The technical assistance
components were complementary to the principal subproject investment component.
Based on percentage of committed funds. This was later changed to percentage of disbursed funds, which
increased the operating cost to about 10 percent.



ii
Implementation Experience and Results
The project objective of helping the GON sustain its poverty alleviation efforts was achieved.
FISE met the geographic and sectoral targets for poverty interventions that were established at
appraisal. From 1991 to July 1996, FISE committed resources of US$119.6 million to each of the
country's 143 municipalities according to population size and a poverty index. Municipalities with
extreme poverty received 22.3 percent of resources, compared to the appraisal estimate of 20 percent.
Municipalities with high poverty were allocated 58.3 percent of resources, compared to the 57 percent
target. Municipalities with medium poverty, which are eligible for FISE financing due to the presence
of poverty groups, received 19.4 percent of resources, compared to the appraisal estimate of 23
percent.
For the same time period, FISE financed 3,792 subprojects in the amount of US$106.6 million.
At appraisal, the sectoral allocation for social infrastructure was estimated at 55 percent; for economic
infrastructure at 23.5 percent; for social services subprojects at 20 percent; and for community training
at 1.5 percent. Actual allocations amounted to 62.3 percent, 19.6 percent, 17.4 percent, and 0.6
percent, respectively. The larger proportion of social infrastructure financing reflected health and
education sector demand. The smaller than expected investment in economic infrastructure, social
services, and community training was due mostly to difficulties regarding subproject preparation on the
part of municipalities and non-governmental organizations (NGOs), as well as health and education
rninistry delays.
FISE's investment in social infrastructure made an important contribution to meeting the needs
of the poor by improving the coverage and conditions for social services delivery. It financed 1,454
subprojects, including the repair or remodeling of 969 primary and pre-primary schools, 77 secondary
schools, 250 health posts, and 51 health centers. In addition, 1,612 social services subprojects included
education equipment, health equipment, and latrine subprojects. FISE accounted for 54 percent of the
country's education and 28 percent of its health expenditures. Approximately 6.3 million persons
benefited from FISE-financed subprojects.2 The share of women beneficiaries was estimated at about
50 percent in education subprojects and 65 percent in health subprojects. FISE-financed subprojects
generated 184,706 months of temporary employment.3
FISE's institutional development was substantial.  Procedures and systems (financial,
administrative, auditing, contracting, data management, planning) were improved. FISE helped
municipalities to improve their skills in subproject identification, preparation, and contracting. MINSA
and MED benefited from institutional strengthening through the project's two technical assistance
components. However, the achievement of the project objective to transfer FISE experience and its
methods of operations and procedures to the social ministries to help them improve their efficiency and
equity of service delivery was orny partially successful. This transfer was largely limited by personnel
turnover in both ministries and the absence of a detailed arrangement between those ministries and
FISE.4 However, the LSMS component was successfully completed in 1993, and survey results have
2   Many persons benefited from more than one project.
3   Direct employment only.
4   Mis arrangement came only recently.



iii
been used to assist the GON, IDA, and other donors to refine and strengthen the design of poverty
reduction programs and policies.
The project made a substantial contribution to private sector development in terms of
investment, growth, and human resources development in the construction, private banking, and
insurance sectors. However, it did not exploit the full potential of available and competent NGOs.
The ability of FISE to obtain donor funding substantially affected the achievement of the
project's major objective. FISE mobilized external funding of US$86.1 million for the period January
1993 to September 1996. At appraisal, the target for external funding was US$58.6 million, including
IDA financing. In fact, FISE received US$91.9 million in multi-lateral and bilateral support from IDA,
four co-financiers, and two additional funding sources. The projected GON contribution was US$6.3
million, compared to the actual contribution of US$15.1 million through September 1996. At
appraisal, the FISE project cost was estimated at US$64.5 million.  The project cost through
September 1997 was US$102.4 million, including part of the cost of the Second Social Investment
Fund (SIF II) Project, Credit 2767-NI. Additional resources led to an increase in subproject financing
from US$60.5 million to US$91.7 million.
The Credit was to be disbursed over a period of two and one-half years, to be completed by
June 30, 1995. The Credit became effective in June rather than March of 1993, as anticipated, because
of a change in Chairman of the Board of FISE, and delays in getting the Subsidiary Agreement and the
legal opinion. Initial disbursements were slower than expected because of the delay in effectiveness;
subproject sponsors had limited experience with ICB, and FISE's supervision department did not
sufficiently pressure contractors to complete subprojects on time. The closing date was extended
twice: from December 31, 1995 to June 30, 1996, and then to September 30, 1996, to allow for the
commitment and payment of the final US$349,052.
As of January 31, 1997, an amount equivalent to US$25.1 million had been disbursed, and the
remaining balance of US$184,000 equivalent was canceled as of that day.
Project implementation complied with the Credit Agreement in its fundamental aspects, and
compliance with special covenants, which were mainly limited to procedural issues, was satisfactory.
Apart from the quarterly audits, all conditions were met substantially without undue delays.
Continued support for FISE and sustainability of the project are likely, given the GON's
commitment to poverty alleviation, maintenance of the social safety net during continuing adjustment,
and protection of social spending from fiscal austerity. The follow-on SIF II project became effective
on April 30, 1996. However, subproject sustainability is still problematic. Nevertheless, this is
expected to improve under SIF II, particularly because of the establishment of a maintenance fund with
the help of the IDB. SIF II also contributes to sustainability through community capacity building and
stronger cooperation between FISE and the line ministries and agencies.
External factors that partially affected subproject implementation included the variable supply
of construction materials, poor quality materials, adverse weather conditions, the presence of irregular,
armed groups in subproject areas, and municipalities' initially weak capacity to participate in



iv
subprojects. During part of 1993, subproject implementation was partially affected by the failure of the
GON to provide counterpart financing; since then, the Government has met its commitments.
The performance of IDA was generally highly satisfactory. However, a transition period
between project task managers contributed to several months' delay in responding to FISE's request to
adjust aggregate limits for different methods of procurement, which slightly affected subproject
implementation. Also, over time IDA advice was not always consistent.
Overall, FISE's implementation performance was satisfactory. FISE project administration was
efficient, management was effective, and operational efficiencies were attained in the subproject cycle.
A few shortcomings were found, but these did not affect the overall achievement of development
results.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned
The most important finding of the project implementation experience was that FISE met the
poverty intervention targets established at appraisal, and surpassed these targets in terms of resource
allocations due to the mobilization of additional external resources. At the same time, FISE maintained
efficient project administration. Administrative costs were about 10 percent of total disbursements, in
keeping with administrative costs of other social investment funds. Expected improvements in the
subproject menu, subproject processing time, the incorporation of social objectives, and new work
areas in the subproject cycle, and the use of local competitive bidding were not fully realized. These
will be further addressed during the implementation of SIF II.
As regards future operations, the SIF II project continues to support FISE's investment
program, an institutional strengthening component, and a LSMS component to assist the GON in
implementing a second round of the survey. Under SI II, FISE has an agreed program and budget for
1995-1997, and a complete set of key performance indicators by which the project can be monitored
and evaluated.
Four main lessons were learned that are applicable to future social investment fund projects.
First, FISE succeeded through the effective and efficient application of standard SIF procedures and
methods, which are well-tested and proven, and owes its success to good management and the ability
to attract donor financing. Second, the successful implementation of social objectives and new work
areas depends on institutional commitment, effective technical assistance that responds to FISE's
special needs (e.g., rapid execution), productive partnerships with the social ministries, and the correct
assessment of the impact of additional considerations on institutional capacity. Both FISE and donors
should give more attention to the impact of added responsibilities on the institution. Third, the transfer
of FISE's experience and methods of operation and procedures to social ministries to help them
improve their efficiency and equity of service delivery was only partially achieved, because of
uncertainties regarding the transfer and inadequate analysis of the objectives of the ministries with
regard to how FISE could be of assistance. This objective can be better achieved with the help of
specific sector operations. And fourth, NGOs have to play a substantial role in facilitating community
involvement throughout the project cycle. Even though Nicaragua's recent history may have created
some sensitivities regarding the role of some NGOs, a more substantial effort to exploit the knowledge
and experience of NGOs would have been advisable.



Part One: Project Implementation Assessment
INTRODUCTION
1.    Since 1991, following a decade of civil strife, the Government of Nicaragua (GON) has
implemented a comprehensive stabilization and adjustment program.5   The Emergency Social
Investment Fund (FISE) was established by the Government in November 1990, as a temporary social
safety net program to help protect and improve the standard of living of marginal social groups during
the period of economic adjustment through the provision of employment and social and economic
infrastructure and services.6 Originally scheduled to end in December 1995, the Government extended
FISE's life by two years to help meet Nicaragua's persisting social and economic problems. FISE has
been directly supported by the International Development Association (IDA) under the first Social
Investrnent Fund (SIF I) Project through Cr. 2434-NI of US$25.0 million equivalent in 1992, and the
Second Social Investment Fund (SIF II) Project through Cr. 2767-NI of US$30.0 million equivalent in
1995. IDA's support of FISE is consistent with its strategy of helping alleviate poverty in Nicaragua
and complements other IDA-financed projects directed at poverty alleviation. The social sectors have
received, and continue to receive, considerable IDA support to help improve the poor social indicators
of the country."
PROJECT OBJECTIVES
2.     The objectives of the first Social Investment Fund Project (SIF I), Credit 2434-NI, were to
help GON sustain its poverty alleviation efforts and maintain social cohesion during the period of
economic adjustment until line ministries would strengthen their institutional capacities and complete
policy reform programs. To the extent feasible, the methods of operation, procedures, and experience
of FISE would be transferred gradually to social ministries to help them improve their efficiency and
equity of service delivery. The IDA Credit was also intended as a channel to mobilize further
international assistance.
3.     The project had four components: (a) the financing, through FISE, of a range of small-scale
subprojects in social and economic infrastructure and social services (US$60.5 million, 89.0% of total
5    The adjustment program was supported by the International Monetary Fund (IMF) Stand-by arrangement
and two IDA Economic Recovery Credits (ERC I and II) approved in September 1991 and June 1994,
respectively.
6   The other GON social safety net programs are the Social Action Ministry (MAS) Integrated Basic
Services Program (PROSERBI), which supports the provision of basis social services in poor
communities, and the National Institute for Municipal Development (INIFOM), which operates a program
to finance investments on basic economic and social infrastructure directed to municipal governments.
7    Social sector support was and is provided by the Health Sector Reform Project (Cr. 2556-NI) of US$15
million equivalent in 1993; the Basic Education Project (Cr. 2689-NI) of US$34 million equivalent in
1995; and the Rural Municpalities Project (Cr. 2918-NI) of US$30.0 million in 1996.



2
project cost); (b) technical assistance to the National Institute of Statistics and Census (INEC) to
implement a Living Standards Measurement Survey (LSMS; US$0.9 million, 1.3%); (c) technical
assistance to strengthen the capacity of the Ministry of Health (MINSA) and Ministry of Education
(MED) to prepare subprojects (US$1.8 million, 2.6%); and (d) technical assistance to help the
Government, through the Ministry of Finance (MIFIN), to improve budgeting and financial
management capacity in the social ministries (US$0.8 million, 1.2%). The operating costs of the
executing agencies (US$4.0 million, or 5.9% of total project cost) were to be financed by the
Government, IDB, and UNDP.
ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
Poverty Reduction
4.    The achievement of the project objective to help GON sustain its poverty alleviation efforts
was substantial, based on (a) the extent to which planned interventions in the staff appraisal report were
met, using geographic, and sectoral targets for resource allocation to subprojects; (b) project results;
and (c) resource mobilization. FISE's contribution to poverty reduction was significant in terms of
improving access to and the conditions of social services delivery, but it cannot address the underlying
causes of poverty.
5.    Geographic Targeting. From 1991 to July 1996, FISE committed resources of US$119.6
million to each of the country's 143 municipalities according to population size and a poverty index that
was composed of displaced population, child malnutrition, and water supply indicators. Municipalities
were grouped in three categories: extreme poverty (39 municipalities and 14.7% of population), high
poverty (95 municipalities and 52.9% of population), and medium poverty (9 municipalities and 32.4%
of population, including Managua with 20% of population). Poorer municipalities were assigned larger
allocations on a per capita basis than other municipalities. Municipalities with medium poverty were
eligible for FISE financing due to the presence of poverty groups.
6.    Geographic targeting worked well. FISE met the resource allocation targets established at
appraisal (Table B1). As of July 31, 1996, municipalities with extreme poverty received 22.3 percent
of resources, compared to the appraisal estimate of 20 percent (Tables B2 and B3). Municipalities
with high poverty received 58.3 percent (US$69.8 million), compared to the appraisal estimate of 57
percent. Municipalities with medium poverty received 19.4 percent (US$23.5 million), compared to
the appraisal estimate of 23 percent. In addition, FISE agreed not to commit more than 18 percent of
resources to Managua and 7 percent to other medium poverty municipalities. Managua received 10.8
percent (US$12.9 mnillion) of resources, and the other medium poverty municipalities, 8.6 percent
(US$10.2 miUion). In July 1996, the investment per capita by poverty category was US$39.93 in
extreme poverty municipalities, US$32.55 in high poverty municipalities, and US$15.99 in medium
poverty municipalities, compared to less that US$5 for each category in 1991.
7.    Sectoral Targeting. At appraisal, sectoral allocations were estimated in four broad categories:
social infrastructure, 55 percent; economic infrastructure, 23.5 percent; social services, 20 percent; and
community training, 1.5 percent. From 1991 through July 1996, FISE financed 3,792 subprojects in
the amount of US$106.6 million (Table B4).  Investment by category amounted to: social



3
infrastructure, 62.4 percent (US$66.5 million); economic infrastructure, 19.7 percent (US$21.0); social
services, 17.4 percent (US$18.5 million); and community training, 0.6 percent (US$0.61 million).
8.     The larger proportion of social infrastructure financing reflected health and education sector
demand. With regard to economic infrastructure subprojects, the capacity of municipalities to prepare
subprojects was over-estimated; however, FISE continues to provide technical assistance to improve
their skills in this and other areas. The smaller than expected investment in social services subprojects
was due to delays in subproject preparation and international bidding for health facility equipment and
school text and library books, and difficulties surrounding non-governmental organization (NGO)
participation.8 NGO participation difficulties also contributed to low investment in community training,
along with FISE's inadequate attention to this subject.
9.     Resource Mobilization. The achievement of the project objective was substantially affected
by FISE's resource mobilization efforts. FISE mobilized external funding of US$86.1 million for the
period January 1993 to September 1996. At appraisal, the target for external funding was US$58.6
million, including IDA financing. FISE received commitments of US$91.9 million in multi-lateral and
bilateral support from IDA, four co-financiers, and two additional funding sources (Table A6b).9 The
projected GON contribution was US$6.3 million, compared to the actual contribution of US$15.1
rillion through September 1996. At appraisal, the FISE project cost was estimated at US$64.5 million
(Table A6a). The project cost through September 1996 was US$102.4 million, including part of the
cost of SIF II. Additional resources led to an increase in subproject financing from US$60.5 million to
US$91.7 million.
Project Results
10.   FISE's investment in social infrastructure made an important contribution to meeting the needs
of the poor by improving the coverage and conditions of social services delivery. FISE financed 1,454
subprojects, including the repair or remodeling of 969 primary and pre-primary schools, 77 secondary
schools, 250 health posts, and 51 health centers; other subproject types were homes for the elderly and
shelters, child centers, potable water, and sewerage (Table B5). FISE financed 1,612 social services
subprojects, including 757 for education equipment, 364 for health equipment, and 320 latrine
subprojects. Financing was also provided for 450 community training subprojects. In econornic
infrastructure, FISE financed 261 subprojects, including 198 road improvement and 31 drainage
subprojects, as well as slaughterhouses, municipal markets, and bridges.
8    The difficulties include identifying NGOs with experience in subproject types (training), the fact that
NGOs which formulate subprojects cannot execute them, and until recently, the lack of an approach to
enhance NGO participation.
9    The principal sources of external financing included: (a) IDA Credit 2434-NI of US$25.1 million and
Credit 2767-NI of US$5.3 million; (b) co-financing of US$34.3 million from IDB, the equivalent of
US$13.8 million from the Government of Germany (KfW), the equivalent of US$7.5 million from the
Govemrnent of Switzerland; and (c) US$5.8 million from the Government of Sweden and USAID. The
initial Swiss contribution of the equivalent of US$3.5 million was financed pari pasu with the credit, and
managed by IDA.



4
11.   FISE's participation in social sector spending was significant. Between 1991 and July 1996,
FISE's participation rose from US$10.5 million to US$31.7 million, averaging 17 percent of total
social sector investment (Table B6). FISE accounted for 54 percent of education and 28 percent of
health expenditures.
12.   Beneficiaries. Based on ex-ante subproject appraisal data, FISE estimated that about 6.3
million persons benefited from 3,792 subprojects through July 1996.10 Also, beneficiaries' contribution
to subprojects was estimated at US$3.1 million. However, FISE did not monetize contributions, which
included donations of land and materials. A recent evaluation found that beneficiaries were generally
pleased with subprojects, but while beneficiary participation was relatively high in subproject
identification, it was absent for the most part during subproject execution and maintenance, reflecting a
lack of commitment on the part of the communities."1 FISE is in the process of developing a social
communication strategy to increase beneficiary participation in the full subproject cycle and to establish
community subproject maintenance committees.
13.   Employment Generation. Based on ex-ante subproject appraisal data, a total of 184,706
months of temporary employment was generated by FISE-financed subprojects. Estimated average
monthly earnings per worker on a FISE-financed subproject were US$70.
14.   Gender Concerns. Significant resources were directed to women. Women's participation
was estimated at above 50 percent in education subprojects (74% of social infrastructure investment),
and 65 percent in health subprojects (13% of investment). An estimated 5 to 10 percent of subproject
contractors were women.
15.   Environmental Considerations.  FISE has applied environmental impact criteria to
subprojects, as required by the Operational Manual approved by IDA. Recently, FISE approved the
creation of an environmental unit within the Evaluation Department. Under SI II, supported by
technical assistance, the coverage of subprojects requiring environmental assessments will be expanded,
procedures will be simplified; and the menu of environmental subprojects will be enhanced.
Institutional Development
16.   FISE. FISE's institutional development was substantial. Institutional development followed
three distinct phases. In the first phase (1991-1992), the principal concern was rapid subproject
financing and disbursement for employment creation due to post-war conditions, in addition to
resource mobilization. The second phase (1993-1994) was a period of institutional capacity-building,
coupled with an increase in subproject financing due to additional external resource mobilization. FISE
improved procedures and systems (financial, administrative, auditing, contracting, data management,
planning). In the current phase (1995-1997), FISE is consolidating institutional gains, while seeking to
improve monitoring and evaluation; poverty targeting; social sector coordination; municipal, NGO, and
local government participation; subproject maintenance and sustainability; and environmental actions.
10  FISE calculated that various persons benefitted from two or more subprojects.
11   M. Goodman and V. Blum. "Evaluaci6n Ex Post del Fondo de Inversi6n Social de Emergencia (FISE) de
Nicaragua, Prestamo 729/OC-NI," IDB, June 1996.



5
17.   Ministries of Health and Education.  The project included two technical assistance
components to the Ministries of Health (MINSA) and Education (MED) to strengthen their capacity to
plan and prepare subprojects and to support general institutional strengthening toward sector reform.
As of August 31, 1996, the Credit had disbursed US$1.2 million to M1NSA and MOE for technical
assistance (Table B7). MINSA benefited from help with sector modernization, project preparation,
strengthening of its monitoring and evaluation system, decentralized financing, and legalization of
health facility properties, among others. MED was strengthened through assistance in the design of a
supervision system, educational materials, and facility maintenance manuals; support for the Basic
Education Project (Cr. 2689-NI), including the project preparation unit; and legalization of education
facility properties. Sixty percent of education facilities obtained legal titles under the component.
18.   However, the achievement of the project objective to transfer FISE experience and its methods
of operations and procedures to social ministries to help them improve their efficiency and equity of
service delivery was somewhat disappointing. MED appears to have profited more than MINSA.
MED uses FISE's poverty map and cost system, is connected by modem to FISE, and received
training in the FISE subproject cycle. The transfer of FISE experience was limited by personnel
turnover in both ministries, which also caused delays in some FISE-financed activities, and by the
absence of a detailed agreement on how to achieve the transfer of experience, including whether this
was an objective of the ministries. The fact that FISE was originally scheduled to end in December
1995 also impeded the transfer of experience.
19.   Municipalities. FISE helped municipalities to improve their skills in subproject identification,
preparation, and contracting through promotion activities, seminars, and training. Municipalities'
experience with FISE norms and procedures was particularly useful in the areas of costs and efficiency.
In the 1995-1997 period, FISE will further assist capacity-building in municipalities.
Private Sector Development
20.   While not a stated project objective, private sector development was one of FISE's objectives,
and its achievement was substantial. FISE invested approximately US$0.5 million in the private sector
on a weekly basis. Its contribution to the construction, private banking, and insurance sectors was
significant in terms of investment, growth, and human resources development. FISE investment in
infrastructure was about 19 percent of GDP for construction from 1991 to 1996 (Table B8). It
approved financing of US$97.7 million (82% of total) for 2,956 subprojects executed by 116
construction firms and 951 independent contractors (Table B9). When FISE began operations, there
were few qualified contractors due to the reduction of the private sector under the previous regime; the
first contractors were schoolteachers, drivers, metal workers, etc. Over time, FISE refined contractor
and subproject eligibility criteria.   Through experience with FISE, contractors' technical and
administrative skills improved. In September 1996, 2,600 contractors were registered with FISE, and
400 were executing subprojects. FISE's external subproject supervisors also come from the private
sector.
21.   FISE stimulated private sector manufacturing through the demand generated for construction
materials by FISE-financed subprojects. In 1991, the sole source of street paving stones and bricks
was the state. Today, private sector manufacturers produce needed construction materials (paving



6
stones, brick, floor tiles, tubing), with the exception of cement production which is a state-owned
enterprise. FISE-financed subprojects have also influenced the growth of transport.
22.   FISE had a significant impact on private banking and insurance companies. FISE's own
accounts are held in private banks.'2 Required contractor construction guarantees purchased from
private banks and insurance companies were 2.5 percent of total approved subproject costs, or about
US$3.0 million, substantial by Nicaraguan standards. In September 1996, FISE planned to make
contractor payments directly to private banks through transfers, contributing to further financial sector
development, as well as to contractor financial management experience.
23.   FISE has had a relatively small impact on the non-profit sector, although non-governmental
organizations (NGOs) sponsored, executed, and formulated social services subprojects. From 1991 to
July 1996, FISE approved financing of US$3.6 million (3% of total) for 535 subprojects executed by
NGOs and financing of US$8 million (7% of total) for 120 subprojects sponsored by NGOs (Table
B10). In August 1995, NGOs had formulated 615 subprojects in the amount of US$1 million. NGO
participation was limited for a variety of reasons;"3 however, FISE continues to make efforts to
increase their participation, and organized a special FISE-NGO seminar in October 1996.
Living Standards Measurement Survey (LSMS)
24.    The project included a component to provide technical assistance to INEC to implement a
LSMS program and analyze its results.'4 The LSMS was successfully completed in 1993. Survey
results have been used to assist the GON, IDA, and other donors to refine and strengthen the design of
poverty reduction policies and programs. FISE is using survey data to revise its geographic
targeting.15 SIF II will finance a complementary second round survey to help further institutionalize
LSMS work in the GON.
Project Design
25.    The project design was appropriate to achieving project objectives; it incorporated the standard
features of social investment funds, which are well-tested. The technical assistance components were
complementary to the principal subproject investment component. FISE has functioned well, and has
met the targets established at appraisal. But the question of future absorptive capacity arises not only
in relation to FISE's institutional capacity, but also with respect to FISE-generated demand for
12   Prior to Credit 2434-NI, FISE accounts were held in a state bank.
13   For example, NGOs that formulate subprojects are not eligible to execute them, even though they may
have comparative advantages given their technical expertise and knowledge of and experience in
communities in a specific geographical area. In addition, Nicaragua's recent history may have created
some sensitivities regarding the role of some NGOs, which were closely associated with the earlier
regime.
14  In addition to IDA, the survey was supported by SIDA, UNDP, UNICEF, USAID, and the GON.
15   See Gustavo Arcia, Hector Mendoza, and Ronaldo lachan. "Mapa de Pobreza Municipal de Nicaragua,
Informe presentado al Fondo de Inversion Social de Emergencia," February 1996.



7
contractors and construction materials should external financing continue to increase. Subproject
financing pressures may account in part for shortcomings in project implementation (paras. 42-44 and
47).
MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
Factors Not Generally Subject to Government Control
26.    Subproject implementation was partially affected by the variable supply of construction
materials, poor quality materials, adverse weather conditions, and the presence of irregular, armned
groups in subproject areas. FISE-generated demand for wood, concrete blocks, and bricks often
exceeded local manufacturing capacity. The absence of a regulatory entity for construction materials
resulted in the use of poor quality materials in some subprojects. 16 The 1995 rainy season washed out
access roads in areas where subprojects were located; materials could not be transported, and
subproject execution was halted for a period of about three months. The rains also affected brick
manufacture which delayed construction of schools and health facilities. Irregular, armed groups in the
central and northem areas of the country menaced laborers, assaulted contractors, threatened FISE
personnel, and detained and bumed vehicles, with the result that laborers stopped working; subprojects
were halted until the groups moved to a different area. All subprojects in these areas were variously
affected.
27.    In the early years, the municipalities' weak capacity to identify, sponsor, prepare, and supervise
subprojects caused delays. FISE continues to provide technical assistance to municipalities, and their
performance has improved. Although not a major factor, the fact that some contractors' poor planning
and financial management abilities delayed subproject execution is cited because of the potential impact
of contractor capacity on future FISE subprojects.'7 FISE might profit from a closer look at overall
contractor absorptive capacity in relation to future demand.
28.    Project implementation was partially delayed from February to August 1994, while FISE
waited for a response to its request to adjust aggregate limits for different methods of procurement
under the IDA Credit.'8 The delay coincided with the lack of a project task manager from May to
August 1994. An amendment to the Credit was approved in August 1994.
16   Prior to 1972, the Ministry of Construction set standards and certified the quality of materials. The
ministry was closed in 1972, and its regulatory functions were not transferred to another government
agency.
17   Some contractors who did not have sufficient resources purchased required insurance with money
borrowed at high interest rates from informal lenders. The initial 20 percent FISE contract advance was
used to repay the lender; consequently, subproject execution began with an estimated 60 percent of the
advance, which was inadequate to purchase needed materials.
18  In February 1994, FISE was close to reaching the thresholds for IDA direct contracting and local
shopping amounts, and requested approval to adjust aggregate limits (increase direct contracting from
US$3.4 million to US$7.0 million and local shopping, from US$3.5 million to US$7.8 million; as well as
decrease public bidding from US$17.5 million to US$10.0 million).



8
Factors Generally Subject to Government Control
29.   From August to December of 1993, project implementation was partially affected by the failure
of GON to provide counterpart funding of US$0.9 million to FISE.19 Approved subproject execution
was delayed for lack of financing. Since 1993, the Government has met its commitment of 10 percent
of project costs.
Factors Generally Subject to FISE Control
30.   The ability of FISE to attract donor funding had a substantial, positive effect on the
achievement of the project objective; the increase in external financing led to a 265 percent increase in
approved subproject financing for the period January 1993 through July 1996.
31.   Factors that partially constrained FISE's operational efficiency included overlapping Executive
Director and Chairman of the Board activities, which could be overcome by greater clarity of functions.
Coordination among departmental directors was distant; closer communication is needed. The use of
technical assistance was uneven, and could be improved by interdepartmental evaluation of expected
results against planned inputs. In addition, the deterioration in FISE's vehicle pool caused delays in
subproject supervision by FISE supervisors. This problem was solved by contracting external
supervisors and through the purchase of new vehicles.
32.   The Credit became effective in June instead of March 1993, as anticipated, because of a change
in Chairman of the Board of FISE and, delays in obtaining the subsidiary agreement and the legal
opinion.
PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
33.   The continued existence of FISE and sustainability of project investments are likely, given the
GONs commitment to poverty alleviation, maintenance of the social safety net during continuing
adjustment, and protection of social spending from fiscal austerity. Project sustainability is also
supported by the follow-on SIF II project, which became effective on April 30, 1996. This project
contributes to sustainability through institutional strengthening activities and subproject investment
(para. 52). A study to deternine whether to continue FISE beyond December 1997 concluded that the
most viable option would be to continue FISE as a five-year, renewable term institution that would
maintain its standard operating procedures and norms, poverty targeting for resource allocation, and
would strengthen and transfer experience to social ministries and municipalities through programmed
actions.20
19  FISE became part of the GON budget for the first time in 1993; the delay in counterpart funding was
caused by a programming problem.
20   Ema Budinich B. and Rodrigo Ubilla M. "Rol Futuro del FISE, Informe de Termino de la Consultoria,"
Managua, February 1996.



9
34.   Subproject sustainability is still problematic. FISE did structure investments with a view
toward low recurrent costs (e.g. school desks, rehabilitation of existing social infrastructure), and
sought guarantees from the social ministries to cover recurrent expenditures. The mid-term review did
not report on subproject sustainabiity problems, but noted that FISE was taking the first steps to
ensure water and sewerage subproject sustainability.21 Nonetheless, subproject sustainability, including
operations and maintenance, is a serious issue, which was initially underestimated. Efforts currently
underway include the establishment of local commnittees to maintain and help run schools and health
centers and financing of committee training and the preparation of maintenance manuals for committee
use. Also, a maintenance fund is currently being established with the support of IDB. Subproject
sustainability depends not only on FISE, but also on the social ministries, municipalities, and
communities. In this regard, FISE should provide strong leadership supported by concrete actions
equal to those applied to subproject financing.
IDA PERFORMANCE
Identification
35.   IDA performance in project identification was highly satisfactory. The project was consistent
with both IDA's country assistance strategy to help alleviate poverty through a lending program
directed at the social sectors and targeted at the poor, and the GON strategy to alleviate poverty and
improve living conditions through, among others, maintaining social safety net programs.
Preparation Assistance
36.   IDA performance in assisting FISE with project preparation was highly satisfactory.
Appraisal
37.   IDA performance in project appraisal was highly satisfactory. Correct appraisals were made
with respect to government commitment, FISE's implementing capacity, and recognition of project
risks. Eighteen key performance indicators were defined for the monitoring and evaluation of
subproject promotion, appraisal, and supervision; these were subsequently refined and expanded (Table
A5a). The indicators were useful for both FISE monitoring and IDA supervision purposes. From
appraisal through Board approval, total staff weeks numbered 129.
Supervision
38.   IDA supervision was satisfactory. Project implementation progress was adequately reported.
However, IDA advice was inconsistent on two subjects. First, FISE was advised to publish the
periodically adjusted subproject unit costs and complied; subsequently, FISE was informed that this
action was in violation of the agreed procurement guidelines. Second, FISE was advised to include
depreciation costs in administrative costs; this advice was later changed. IDA follow-up on FISE's
request to adjust aggregate limnits for different methods of procurement was delayed by the transition
21   World Bank. Mid-Term Review, Nicaragua, Social Investment Fund Project, December 5, 1994.



10
between task managers. FISE's view was that IDA supervision improved over time, and that
continuity in IDA staff and consultants is very important. Total staff weeks for supervision numbered
109, partly overlapping with the preparation, appraisal, and supervision of SIFII) averaging some 26
staff weeks per year.
BORROWER PERFORMANCE
Preparation
39.   FISE's performance in project preparation was highly satisfactory. The quality of technical,
financial, institutional analyses, and other inputs was very high, and FISE management showed an
unequivocal commitment to the project.
Implementation
40.   Overall, FISE's implementation performance was satisfactory. Implementation complied with
the Credit Agreement in its fundamental aspects.  FISE's project administration was efficient,
management was effective, and operational efficiencies were attained in the subproject cycle. A few
shortcomings were found with respect to expected improvements in the subproject menu, subproject
processing time, the incorporation of social objectives, and the application of contracting procedures
for local competitive bidding, as well as technical assistance funded under the credit. However, these
did not significantly affect the overall achievement of development results.
41.   Subprojects. Subproject status and average cost were satisfactory. From 1991 through July
1996, FISE approved 4,791 subprojects in the amount of US$120.8 million (Table B 1l). Sixty-nine
percent of subprojects were completed, 17 percent were under execution, 13 percent were in the
process of being contracted, and 1 percent were canceled. In 1991, the average subproject cost was
US$39,074 (social infrastructure, US$35,660; economic infrastructure, US$73,167; social services,
US$8,397). Through July 1996, the cumulative average cost was US$33,627 (social infrastructure,
US$45,705; economic infrastructure, US$75,942; social services, US$11,507; community training,
US$1,355). Excluding community training, the average cost was US$44,384.
42.   The standardized subproject menu consisted of 28 subproject types. FISE expanded the social
services subproject menu, as agreed at the mid-term review, but subproject preparation and execution
were troublesome due to difficulties surrounding NGO participation, a delay on the part of MED in
approving a list of school text and library books, and a delay in purchasing health facility equipment.
The latter two delays were overcome, and FISE will hold a seminar for NGOs in December 1996 to
further their participation. The new nutrition program subproject type has yet to be implemented.
Also agreed at the mid-term review was increasing investment in water and sanitation subprojects,
which were one percent of total amount for social infrastructure subprojects under contract through
July 1996 (Table B12). FISE delayed starting a program of detailed feasibility studies; there was a
scarcity of qualified water and sanitation specialists to conduct such studies, and the Nicaraguan
Institute for Water and Sewerage (INAA) and FISE were unable until recently to reach agreement on
key issues regarding subprojects in dispersed, rural areas, where the need is greatest.  Social
infrastructure investment was skewed toward education (74% of total); and it is suggested that FISE
review sector demand.



11
43.    Subproject Cycle. FISE made several improvements in the subproject cycle, in particular in
planning, promotion, and supervision. It has sought mechanisms to establish a formal role for
communities in the subproject cycle, especially subproject identification.22 This process is ongoing.
Subproject appraisal has improved, as evidenced by the decrease in the difference between subproject
appraisal costs and contract amounts from 13 percent to 7 percent since 1994, compared to the target
of 10 percent or less. In this regard, FISE's system of standard unit regionalized prices has worked
well.23 To ensure both subproject completion and quality, FISE established the additional criterion that
price quotations and bids must cover at minimum the appraisal amount for subproject direct costs.
Through 1995, subproject supervision was conducted by the subproject sponsor and FISE supervisors.
Supervision was deficient because sponsor supervisors changed frequently, and FISE supervisors were
overburdened. In 1995, FISE began to contract external supervisors; a quick assessment indicated that
subproject supervision is satisfactory.24 In August 1996, the ratio of FISE supervisors to the number
of subprojects was 1 to 25. Average subproject execution time was 125 days, which parallels that of
other social investment funds. The average time for subproject processing (promotion to completion)
was 401 days, which indicates that bottlenecks in the subproject cycle are a continuing problem that
needs to be addressed.
44.    The incorporation of social objectives and new work areas in the subproject cycle was slower
than expected, and the impact of these added responsibilities on FISE's institutional capacity was not
fully taken into account. While maintaining the original emphases on operational efficiency and
securing additional financing, other considerations were added: subproject quality, maintenance, and
sustainability; environment; greater attention to community, NGO, and local government participation;
and impact evaluation. FISE lacked the specialized knowledge to address certain areas (e.g.,
environment, water and sanitation), and required technical assistance. The contribution of the social
ministries, with far greater knowledge of and experience in social programs, was constrained by their
own problems and focus on reform efforts. The result was that FISE's institutional capacity was
strained.
45.   Administration.    FISE-financed  subprojects were  implemented  efficiently.    Total
administrative costs represented about 10 percent of total disbursements, in keeping with other social
investment funds (Table B 13). FISE administration and operations improved through the acquisition
of additional office space and the purchase of computers, equipment, and vehicles.
.46.    Management and Staff. The high quality and continuity of the management team, and FISE
staff in general, has been an essential factor in FISE's success, to the extent that FISE has served as a
22   See Felix Jimenez and Flor de Maria Monterrey. "Consultoria sobre la Participaci6n de los Beneficiarios
en los Proyectos del FISE, III Taller: Sintesis de Mecanismos de Participaci6n Comunitaria en los
Proyectos del FISE, Memoria," Managua, June 1996.
23   Updated regularly, the FISE cost system is based on prices in each of 17 departmental capitals, a
Nicaragua Construction Council cost study, and on-site cost analysis. The system is revised inunediately
upon currency devaluation and changes in fuel costs.
24   Gloria Elizabet Urquia B. "Informe de Consultoria, Misi6n de Supervision AIF, Proyectos Fondo de
Inversi6n Social de Emergencia I y 11, Creditos 2343 y 2767-NI," September 9, 1996.



12
model for other SlFs. FISE has hosted study tours for several Latin American SlFs, as well as those in
Mongolia, Cambodia, and Vietnam. Uneven team coordination has detracted somewhat from this
success. In July 1996, FISE had a total of 146 staff (12 management, 72 professional, 62 support),
which compared favorably with that of other SIFs (Table B 14).
47.   Procurement. Simplified procurement procedures helped expedite subproject approval and
disbursements.25 From 1993 to August 1996, direct contracting26 and local shopping were 57 percent
of total contract amounts (31% and 26%, respectively), compared to the appraisal estimate of 37
percent (Table B15).27   National competitive bidding (NCB) was 43 percent, compared to the
appraisal estimate of 67 percent. The sizable use of direct contracting was due mostly to the fact that
FISE transferred the responsibility of NCB to subproject sponsors in September 1993. This change
resulted in significant contracting delays because sponsors were not familiar with FISE's NCB
procedures. In response, FISE strengthened its contracting department, and provided technical
assistance to subproject sponsors. Direct contracting was expedient, but did not convey transparency
of FISE operations as did local shopping and NCB. FISE's projections for 1996 are that direct
contracting and local shopping will be 44 percent (14% and 30%, respectively) and NCB will be 56
percent of total contract amounts.
48.   Disbursements. The Credit was to be disbursed over a period of two and one-half years, to be
completed by June 30, 1995. Total FISE disbursements from 1991 through July 1996 were
US$116.92 million, compared to total approved financing of US$119.6 million. Initial disbursements
were slower than expected, because of the delay in effectiveness; subproject sponsors had lirnited
experience with NCB; and FISE's supervision department did not sufficiently pressure contractors to
complete subprojects on time. As of September 30, 1995, all of the funds available for subprojects
were fully committed. The closing date was extended from December 31, 1995 to June 30, 1996, and
again by three months from June 30, 1996 to September 30, 1996, to allow for final commitment and
payment of the Credit.
49.   Use of Technical Assistance. FISE obtained technical assistance of US$130,373 for various
institutional strengthening activities, including the re-design of the financial accounting system, the
preparation of a contracting manual, and the development of a strategy for the implementation of water
and sanitation subprojects in dispersed, rural areas (Table B16). FISE reported that 25 percent of
planned technical assistance did not materialize due to delays in developing terms of reference, the lack
of an institutional locus for technical assistance, and disparate views on whether planned technical
assistance could effectively meet institutional needs without unduly burdening FISE.
25   By law, FISE is exempt from the standard state system of purchasing goods and services for subprojects
financed by FISE; purchases are regulated in accordance with the FISE Procurement Manual which
follows IDA procedures.
26   Direct contracting below US$30,000 was applied for the execution of subprojects in remote locations,
where no more than one contractor was expected to show interest; this was later raised to US$50,000.
27   Based on actual data for the period January 1993 through August 1996, and projections for the period
August to December 1996. Data not available for 1991-1992.



13
50.   Covenant Compliance.  Compliance with special covenants was satisfactory.  Special
covenants were mainly limited to procedural issues: (a) minimum allocation of counterpart funds, (b)
FISE to carry out municipalities targeting plan, (c) FISE not to approve subprojects in Managua with
cost exceeding 18 percent of total funds available and subprojects in other medium poverty
municipalities with cost exceeding seven percent of total funds available, (d) FISE to furnish to IDA no
later than six months after the end of each fiscal year a copy of annual audit report, and (e) FISE to
furnish to IDA no later than two months after the end of each quarter a copy of quarterly audit report
(Table A7). Apart from (e), which has still not been met, all conditions were met substantially without
undue delays.
ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
51.   As detailed in the preceding paragraphs, the overall project outcome was satisfactory. The
achievement of the major objectives was substantial, with only a few shortcomings. Subject to further
progress on subproject sustainability, project sustainability is likely.
FUTURE OPERATION
52.    SIF II supports the FISE investment program for the period 1995-1997, as well as an
institutional strengthening component to improve its capacity to help prepare water and sanitation
subprojects and to improve its environmental assessment procedures, and a LSMS component to assist
the GON in implementing a second round of the survey conducted under the first project and to further
institutionalize LSMS within the GON.28 FSE has an agreed program and budget for 1995-1997.
The indicators by which the project can be monitored and evaluated include a full set of performance
and impact indicators that cover the efficiency and quality of FISE subprojects, the administration and
financial efficiency of FISE, the focus of FISE investments, and the impact of FISE subprojects (Table
A5b). The issues discussed in this report will be further addressed during the implementation of SIF X.
KEY LESSONS LEARNED
53.   FISE has succeeded through the effective and efficient application of standard SIF procedures
and methods, which are well-tested and proven, and owes its success to good management and the
ability to attract donor financing. This has been helped by the introduction of an excellent planning
mechanism.
54.   Successful achievement of social objectives and implementation in new work areas depend on
institutional commitment, effective technical assistance that responds to FISE's special needs (e.g.,
rapid execution), productive partnerships with the social ministries, and the correct assessment of the
impact of additional work on institutional capacity. Both FISE and donors should give more attention
to the impact of added responsibilities on the institution. This could be accomplished by planning for
the achievement of social objectives in the context of overall operations and goals, and conducting an
annual review of institutional impact and progress toward social objectives.
28  In addition, IDB loan 935/SF-NI provides financing for FISE subprojects, institutional strengthening in
the areas of internal management and subproject promotion, and a preventive maintenance fund
component for health and education subprojects.



14
55.    The transfer of FISE's experience and methods of operation and procedures to social ministries
to help them improve their efficiency and equity of service delivery was only partially achieved because
the transfer was not defined, and the objectives of the ministries were not sufficiently analyzed as to
how FISE could be of assistance. Given FISE's six years of experience, it is now opportune for FISE,
the ministries, and the municipalities to begin to concretely define and plan for the transfer of
experience. This would signal a further evolution in social investment funds. IDA and other
multilateral and bilateral donors may wish to support this effort through their sector work, in addition
to social investment fund projects.
56.   And finally, NGOs have to play a substantial role in facilitating community involvement
throughout the project cycle. Even though Nicaragua's recent history may have created some
sensitivities regarding the role of some NGOs, a more substantial effort to exploit the knowledge
and experience of NGOs would have been advisable.



15
Part Two: Statistical Data
A.    General Statistical Data
Table Al:    Summary of Assessments
Table A2:    Related IDA Loans/Credits
Table A3:    Project Timetable
Table A4:    Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table A5a    Key Indicators for Project Implementation (Credit 2434-NI)
Table A5b:   Key Indicators for Project Implementation (Credit 2767-NI)
Table A6a:   Project Costs
Table A6b:   Project Financing
Table A7:    Status of Legal Covenants
Table A8:    IDA Resources: Staff Inputs
Table A9:    IDA Resources: Missions
B.    FISE Project Data
Table B 1:    Comparison between Planned and Committed Resources by Municipal Poverty
Category, 1991 through July 1996
Table B2:    FISE Approved Subproject Financing by Municipal Poverty Category, 1991
through July 1996 (US$ million)
Table B3:    FISE Approved Subproject Financing by Municipal Poverty Category, 1991
through July 1996 (percent)
Table B4:    FISE Disbursements by Sector, 1991 through July 1996
Table B5:    Number of FISE Subproject Beneficiaries, Employment Generated, and
Average Subproject Cost, 1991 through July 1996
Table B6:    FISE Participation in Social Sector Expenditures, 1991 through July 1996
Table B7:    Technical Assistance to the Ministries of Health and Education
Table B8:    FISE Participation in the Gross Domestic Product (GDP), 1991 through June
1996
Table B9:    Distribution of Number and Amount of Approved Subprojects by Type of
Executing Agency, 1991 through July 1996
TableBIO:   Distribution of Number and Amount of Approved Subprojects by Type of
Subproject Sponsor, 1991 through July 1996
Table BI 1:   Number and Amount of Approved Subprojects by Subproject Status, 1991
through July 1996
Table B12:   Types of Subprojects under Contract by Number and Amount, 1991 through
July 1996
Table B 13:   Amount and Uses of Funds by Year, 1991 through July 1996 (US$ million)
Table B14:   FISE Staffing, 1991 through July 1996
Table B 15:   FISE Procurement Methods by Type, 1993 through 1996
Table B16:   Studies and Technical Assistance Included in the Project



16
NICARAGUA
SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
(CREDIT 2434-NI)
Table Al: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of       Ves.;t;Lev  Subqrantial        PaYrtial        Ni*gIi.ible    Nnt applicahle
Macroeconomic policies                                                                      X
Sector policies                                                                             x
Financial objectives                                                                        X
Institutional development               Xa               Xb
Physical objectives                     X
Poverty reduction                       X
Gender concerns                                           x
Other social objectives                                                                     x
Environmental objectives                                  X
Public sector management                                  X
Private sector development              X
B. PrL lctIsust.Uinabili        e._ain
!       x           I                      !__ _   _ _  _    _
C . IDAMSerfunmancc             tHighlSattstaeton j          Satisfacctrv             Deficient
Identification                             X
Preparation assistance                     X
Appraisal                                  X
Supervision                                                       X X
D. RnrroAcrjielf(rnEnc. H,1.aifcni-  D__etsat_                                    __tric enit 
Preparation                                X
Implementation                                                    X
Covenant compliance                                               X
i. Assessment nf nutecinmc      !       i1h1        Sanisaitorf :nsaisractar             Highly
-..~~~~~~~~~~~~iL    1L.
x 
a -For FISE
b - For MED and MINSA



17
NICARAGUA
SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
(CREDIT 2434-NI)
Table A2: Related IBRD Loans and IDA Credits
0vilit ML and Project           PurpiS              Year(sf of.Apprval            Status
Health Sector Reformn (Cr.   Health sector reform           FY93                   Ongoing
2556-NI)
Basic Education (Cr 2689-   Basic educatioii                FY95                   Ongoing
NI)                       strengthening
Second Social Investment    Continuation of FISE            FY96                   Ongoing
Fund (Cr. 2767 - NI)      activities
Rural Municipalities (Cr.    Reduction of rural poverty     FY97                   Ongoing
2918-NI)



18
NICARAGUA
SOCLIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
(CREDIT 2434-NI)
Table A3: Project Timetable
- _wL se in l'jeojL SLeI                 Pli_iied Dae_                       Actual Date
Identification                                April 1992                         April 1992
Preparation                                   April 1992                         April 1992
Appraisal                                     June 1992                          June 1992
Negotiations                                 October 1992                       October 1992
Board Presentation                          November 1992                     November 1992
Signing                                      January 1993                       January 1993
Effectiveness                                March 1993                          June 1993
Midterm Review                              February 1994                        April 1994
Project Completion                          December 1994                     September 1996
Loan Closing                                December 1995                     September 1996
Table A4: Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
.  .....    .     ..........  ._                       _._                i                     _.1993  1994  j  1995  !  199
Appraisal Estimate              5.0            18.0           25.0
(USSM)
Actual (US$M)                   0.0             8.8             19.0            23.4             25.1
Actual as % of                  0.0            48.8             74.8          93.9            100.0
estimate
Date of final                                                                           Dec. 6, 1996
disbursement



19
NICARAGUA
SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
(CREDIT 2434-NI)
Table 5A: Key Performance Indicators for Project Implementation (Credit 2434-NI)
FISE Work Program
January 1993 to December 1994
Indicator               OhjecMive        i       argen            Actual      f   'M,
I       J n n 9wJon D9tlec 94                     kDc 94
1. Number of          Determine actual demand              2,000              3,727        186
subproject requests   for FISE's financing and
estimate FISE's promotion
capacity
2. Number of          Determine FISE's appraisal            1,600             3,045        190
subprojects appraised    capacity
3. Number of          Assure that FISE has                    10                 12         83
evaluators            enough professionals
4. Number of          Determine FISE's marginal              160                253        159
subprojects appraised    evaluation capacity
by evaluator
5. Number of          Determine relationship of             1,569             2,448        156
subprojects approved    projects approved to
projects appraised        _
6. Total cost of      Determine FISE's project      US$60 million   US$50.20 million        84
subprojects approved    processing capability
7. Percentage of total    Ascertain FISE's reaching         20%                18%          90
cost of projects      targeting objectives
approved in
municipalities with
extreme poverty
8. Percentage of total    Ascertain FISE's reaching         57%                62%         108
cost of projects      targeting objectives
approved in
municipalities with
high poverty
9. Percentage of total    Ascertain FISE's reaching         23%                20%          88
cost of projects      targeting objectives
approved in
municipalities with
medium poverty
10. Percentage of total   Ascertain FISE's reaching         16%                12%         72
cost of projects      targeting objectives
approved in Managua
(part of medium
poverty municipalities)



20
Indicator      T        Ohjctive                Target              Actual 
.Ja*n 93 Ito bee 94     O ..s.9g
11. Number of         Deternine possible                      0.70               0.67         96
subprojects with       bottlenecks in procurement
financing              procedures
contract/Number of
subprojects approved
12. Time span (days)    Determine possible                       5                 15        293
between contract       bottlenecks in the
signing and first      supervision or
disbursement           administration department
13. Number of         Determine FISE's                       1,133              2,177        188
subprojects started    production capacity
14. Total cost of     Determine FISE's               US$40 million   US$40.67 million
subprojects started    production capacity
15. Number of         Ascertain how close        <10% of total                    587        357
subproject contracts   appraisal cost estimates are  subproject
above the appraised   to reality (see indicator No.  contracts (N164)
cost base              19)
16. Accumulated       Determine execution levels,    US$40 million   US$36.02 million         90
disbursements for the    balance to be disbursed and
period                 general FISE capacity to
disburse in a given time
period
17. Percentage of total   Determine execution levels,         53%                91%         172
disbursements to total   balance to be disbursed and
commitments            general FISE capacity to
disburse in a given time
period
18. Number of         Determine FISE's capacity                 30                 22         73
subprojects in actual    to handle its current
execution/Number of    commitments (see
supervisors           indicators Nos. 21, 22, 23)
19. Percentage of total   Ascertain how close total          <10%                13%         129
cost of subprojects    cost estimates are to reality
contracted over
appraised cost base
20. Percentage of      Determine % of modified               <10%                17%         168
subproject contracts   contracts because of cost
modified because of    overruns due to exogenous
cost overruns         variables or under
estimated appraisal cost
21. * Number of        Determine how close                     450                330         73
subprojects in actual  FISE's installed capacity for
execution              subproject supervision is to
reality



21
Indicator               Objective              Target             Actual      |
Jan 93 tit Ikc 94      D   94
22. * Total cost of   Determine how close total    US$14.85 million   US$10.89 million      73
subprojects in actual    cost estimates of
execution             subprojects handling
capacity are to reality
23. * Percentage of   Determine possible                   <10%          74%               742
subprojects in actual    bottlenecks in supervision
execution w/original    department subprojects on
contracted execution  critical path
time overdue
24. Number of         Deternine the relationship             908              1,302        143
subprojects completed   of subprojects completed to
subprojects started that
should have been completed
as scheduled
25. Total cost of     Determine total cost of       US$30 million   US$28.61 million        95
completed subprojects   completed subprojects
26. Average execution   Determine possible                    95                 84         89
time of finished      bottlenecks in supervision
subprojects (days)    departments
* Does not include 34 subprojects canceled with a total cost of US$1.4 million.
Note: The key performance indicator format used by FISE states the database by which each indicator is
verified.



22
NICARAGUA
SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
(CREDIT 2434-NI)
Table A6a: Project Costs
January 1993 - September 1996
-.                        | I      Appraisal Esiimafte                    Actal
(I:Ss million)                   (KISS miltim)
!          te1m              =_     =     =               ---    --------------r - -- ---_
1,  iA1K;I F ioreign i  lolal    L local   Foreign      Total
j c    {t   j Ct'  C   i Ctsti   Cohts                    _       -
I. FISE
A. Subprojects
1. Social infrastructure              23.3       10.0       33.3        61.8       0.0        61.8
2. Economic infrastructure             11.4        2.8       14.2        8.4       0.0         8.4
3. Social Services                    10.3         1.8       12.1       19.7       0.0        19.7
4. Community Training                  0.5         0.4        0.9        1.9       0.0         1.9
Subtotal      45.5        15.0       60.5       91.7       0.0        91.7
B. Operating Costs
1. Salaries and social benefits        2.2        0.0         2.2        5.7       0.0         5.7
2. Travel and per diem                 0.0         0.3        0.3        0.0       0.1         0.1
3. Office expenses                     0.7        0.0         0.7        2.8       0.0         2.8
4. Transport                           0.2        0.2         0.3        0.3       0.3         0.6
5. Rent, maintenance, etc.             0.2         0.1        0.5        0.4       0.2         0.6
6. Utilities                           0.0         0.0        0.0        1.0       0.0         1.0
Subtotal        3.5        0.5        4.0       10.1        0.6       10.7
TOTAL FISE          49.0       15.5       64.5      101.8        0.6      102.4
II. LSMS and FISE                      0.7        0.2         0.9        0.2       3.1         3.3
Impact Evaluation
III. Technical Assistance for MOH      0.4         1.4        1.8        0.0       1.4         1.4
and MOE
IV. Technical Assistance for Social    0.2        0.6         0.8        0.0       0.0         0.0
Sector Reform Management
Total (1)                 50.7        17.7      68.0       102.0       5.0       107.0
(1) Net of taxes and duties.
Source: FISE Direcci6n Financiera Administrativa, 01/24/97.
Note: Totals may not add due to rounding



23
NICARAGUA
SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
(CREDIT 2434-NI)
Table A6b: Project Financing
January 1993 - September 1996
1.  }    Appraisal Estimate             Actual/LateNt.4utimate
j(US millioln)        j          (USM inilliun)       I:
ij           Seuree                                                          1 i
II,                              fAtIcal      Foreign   liotal  I  Ioai   bnreig0n   Tlotal
I[                                             L Cus I  C osms          , C      asts  .__.
IBRD/IDA (Cr. 2434-NI)                18.2        6.8       25.0       22.4        2.7      25.10
IBRD/IDA (Cr. 2767-NI)                                                  5.2        0.1        5.3
Cofinancing Institutions
IDB (1)                               10.4        5.6       16.0       33.8        0.5       34.3
Government of Germany-KfW (2)          9.0        4.0       13.0       13.0        0.8       13.8
Government of Switzerland (3)          2.5        1.0        3.5        7.2        0.3        7.5
UNDP                                   0.3        0.1        0.4        0.0        0.0        0.0
Govemment of Japan                     0.5        0.2        0.7        0.0        0.0        0.0
Subtotal      40.9        17.7      58,6       81.6         4.5      86.1
Other External Resources
SIDA (4)                                                                2.1        0.0       2.1
USAID (5)                                                               3.7        0.0        3.7
Subtotal                                         5.8        0.0       5.8
Domestic Contributions
Government of Nicaragua                6.3        0.0        6.3       14.5        0.6       15.1
Beneficiaries (6)                      3.1        0.0        3.1       0.00       0.00       0.00
Subtotal       9.4        0.0        9.4        14.5       0.6       15.1
Total                   50.3        17.7      68.0       102.0        5.1     107.0
(1) ATN/TF-3599-NI and Loan Agreements 729/OC-NI and 935/SF-Nl.
(2) Agreements 9266157, 9266164, and 9567009.
(3) COSUDE I and COSUDE II.
(4) Agreements I and II.
(5) PL-480 generated funds.
(6) An estimated US$3.1 million in beneficiary contributions was not monetarized and reported.
Source: FISE Direcci6n Financiera Administrativa, 01/24/97.



24
Table A7: Status of Covenants
Agmcemcnt  ection             I   PreXnt    1Original            Rcised                                                              1
I   T'ypae  Status     Fuliilimenut  I  FuitFiliment                  I)eicription( of Co"Cmant
.    . .... - .o            t.  1         Dae. .....                         . ..
Credit    3.u -             4        Complied      Annually        Annually    Minimum allocation of counterpart funds
3.08(a)       5       Complied       3/31/93          3/31/93     SIF to carry out Municipalities Targeting Plan
3.08(b)       5       Complied       3/31/93          3/31/93     SIF not to approve subprojects in large municipalities based on
Municipalities Targeting Plan
4.01(b)       1       Complied       Annually        Annually    SIF to furnish IDA not later than 6 months after the end of each
fiscal year, a copy of annual audit report
4.02(b)       I          Not         Quarterly       Quarterly    SIF to furnish to IDA not later than 2 months after the end of
Complied                                   each quarter, a copy of the quarterly audit report
Table A8: IDA Resources: Staff Inputs
....... ..
Stage of Project Cycle                    Weeks                    US$(000)
Preparation to Appraisal                                68.4                       220.1
Appraisal                                              59.5                        125.8
Negotiations through Board Approval                      0.9                         0.2
Supervision                                            108.8                       241.0
Completion                                              8.5                         13.9
Total                                                 246.1                        601.0



25
Table A9: IDA Resources: Missions
_ .    .. ........    ................ .......    ...  ..  .   . .    ...   . . _ .......... P..r.................  ......    ...................................... .  ..
Peufonnanc  Rating
Stage of Pmject  .Uonth/    Number    Days in              Specialited      Implementation   lDevelopment             TFypes of
Cycle           Year          Of         Field        Staff Skills         Status           Objctines           Prnblkms
Per.wns            _      tpCCtd
.................... _.   ,   _ _  ._   ..................  ..............~~~~~~~~~..................  ........ ...............  ....................   . . . . .   .
Through               6/92          8           106        A,B,C,D,E,F              S                 n.a.
Appraisal
Appraisal             12/92         2            2             A,D                  S                 n.a.
Through Board
Approval
Supervision 1         7/93          1            4              G                   S                  S         Minor
procurement
procedures
Supervision 2         2/94          1            4              A                   S                  S         Contracting
bottlenecks/insuff
icient supervision
personnel
Supervision 3         4/94          6                       A,B,C,E,F
Supervision 4         2/95          2            4             A,B                 HS                 HS         MIS not
integrated
Supervision 5         8/95          2            4             A,B                  S                  S
Supervision 6         10/95         4            5          A,C,D,G                HS                 HS
Supervision 7         3/96          4            5          A,C,D,G                HS                 HS         Contracting,
concurrent
auditing
Completion            9/96          3            5            A,C,D                S                   S
W A=Human Resources Specialist; B=Financial Analyst; C=Engineer; D=Administrator; E=Credit Specialist; F=Economist; G=Procurement Analyst
bI 1=Problem Free; 2=Moderate Problems; HS=Highly Satisfactory; S=Satisfactory
Note: Various supervision activities also took place in late-1994/early-1995 in the context of the preparation of the next FISE project (Cr. 2767-NI)



26
Table B1: Comparison between Planned and Committed Resources
by Municipal Poverty Category
1991 through July 1996
Povery CaOegvr            Numher of          Percent or        Plaitwed %        Actual %
M1unicipaities        Tntal        (January 1993)      (JuLy 1996)
Population  .        ._._._._._l
Extreme                             39               14.7              20.0               22.3
High                                95               52.9              57.0               58.3
Medium                              9                32.4              23.0               19.4
Total                              143               100.0             100.0             100.00
Managua (1)                                          20.0              <18.0              10.8
(1) Part of medium poverty municipalities.
Source: FISE Direcci6n General de Estadistica, 09/03/96.



27
Table B2: FISE Approved Subproject Financing by Municipal Poverty Category
1991 through July 1996
(US$ million)
Extreme                           14.7
Amount approved                                     1.48       2.49        2.84       4.99       7.62       7.23         26.66
Number of subprojects                                 39        103        103        303         349        238          1,139
High                              52.9
Amount approved                                     5.33       8.02       8.23       15.44      19.19      13.51         69.75
Number of subprojects                                127        254        187       1,067       700         363         2,798
Medium                            32.4
Amount approved                                     3.72       2.12       3.31        4.22       4.88       4.87         23.15
Number of subprojects                                 48         36        207        250         155        117           813
Total                            100.0
Amount approved                                    10.54      12.65      14.39      24.67       31.70      25.61        119.58
Number of subprojects                               214         397        597       1,620      1,204        718         4,750
Managua (1)                       20.0
Amount approved                                     3.27       0.91       1.60       2.00        2.21       2.91         12.91
Number of subprojects                                35          13        147        137         69          77           478
Exchange rates used:                                 4.85       5.00       6.12       6.72        7.53       8.12          6.33
US$ 1.00 = C6rdoba
(1) Part of medium poverty municipalities.
Source: FISE Direcci6n de Planificaci6n, 08/30/96.



28
Table B3: FISE Approved Subproject Financing by Municipal Poverty Category
1991 through July 1996
(percent)
Extreme                          14.7
Amount approved                                  14.07      19.71      19.76      20.24     24.03      28.22         22.30
Number of subprojects                            18.22      26.95      17.25      18.70     28.98      33.14         23.97
High                             52.9
Amount approved                                  50.56      63.48      57.21      62.61     60.54      52.75         58.33
Number of subprojects                            59.34      63.97      48.07      65.86     58.13      50.55         58.90
Medium                           32.4
Amount approved                                  35.36      16.79      23.01      17.13      15.41     19.03         19.36
Number of subprojects                            22.42       9.06      34.67      15.43      12.87     16.29         17.11
Total                           100.0
Amount approved                                 100.00     100.00     100.00     100.00    100.00     100.00        100.00
Number of subprojects                           100.00     100.00     100.00     100.00    100.00     100.00        100.00
Managua (1)                      20.0
Amount approved                                  31.04       7.25      11.13      8.11       6.97      11.36         10.80
Number of subprojects                            16.35       3.27      24.62      8.45       5.73      10.72         10.06
(1) Part of medium poverty municipalities.
Source: FISE Direcci6n de Planificaci6n, 08/30/96.



29
Table B4: FISE Disbursemcnts by Sector
1991 through July 1996
_                                                                                     ~~ ~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.. . . . . . . . .   . .
|Social Infrastructure
EAmount (US$ million)                            3.14              4.76            11.32             15.43            21.96             9.85            66.46l
lPercent                                        29.76             37.66            79.00            66.08             69.89            68.93            62.36l
|Economic Infrastructurel
Amount (US$ million)                             7.17             4.57              1.34             3.36             3.88             0.64            20.96
|Percent                                        67.96             36.16             9.35             14.39            12.35             4.48            19.67
Social Services
Amount (US$ miillion)                            0.24             3.31              1.62             4.38             5.21             3.79            18.55l
Percent                                          2.27            26.19            11.32             18.76            16.58            26.52            17.40l
Community Trainingl
Amount (US$ million)                             0.00             0.00             0.05              0.18             0.37             0.01             0.61
lPercent                                         0.00              0.00             0.35             0.77              1.18 10.07 10.57
|Total Amount (US$ million)                     10.55             12.64            14.33            23.35            31.42L              14.29      106.58J
Source: FISE Direcci6n Financiera Admninistrativa, 09/03/96.



30
Table B5: Number of FISE Subproject Beneficiaries, Employment Generated, and Average Subproject Cost, 1991 through July 1996
. *,'X:: ....                                          .    . . .  ..         . .  ..     . *
Social Infrastructure
Amount (US$ million)                    3.14           4.76          11.32         15.43         21.96           9.85        66.46
Number of subprojects                     88            130           290           401            396           149          1,454
Number of beneficiaries               96,375        125,787       303,878        773,425       705,641        163,914     2,169,020
Employment generated                   2,966          5,699        23,656         28,440        51,746         23,372       135,909
Average subproject cost (US$)         35,660         36,611        39,034         38,475        55,449         66,112       45,705
Economic Infrastructure
Amount(US$million)                      7.17           4.57          1.34           3.36          3.88          0.64         20.96
Number of subprojects                     98            47             19            44             54            14           276
Number of beneficiaries              328,937         35,769        26,845        705,229       391,855        35,675      1,524,310
Employment generated                   4,298          2,137         1,929          5,955         7,770          1,899       23,988
Average subproject cost (US$)         73,167         97,328        70,578         76,298        71,937        45,485        75,942
Social Services
Amount (US$ million)                    0.24           3.31          1.62           4.38          5.21          3.79         18.55
Number of subprojects                     28           220            236           491           471            166         1,612
Number of beneficiaries                    0          8,487       188,229      1,103,208       812,994        199,437     2,312,355
Employment generated                     330           360          5,197          5,561         6,741         3,923        22,112
Average subproject cost (US$)          8,397         15,055         6,859          8,921        11,058        22,837        11,507
Community Training
Amount (US$ million)                    0.00           0.00          0.05           0.18          0.37          0.01          0.61
Number of subprojects                      0             0             30           139           278              3           450
Number of beneficiaries                    0             0         19,422        207,215        58,305         1,293       286,235
Employment generated                       0             0             60          1,180         1,445            12         2,697
Average subproject cost (US$)              0             0          1,815          1,300         1,317         1,676         1,355
Total Amount (US$ million)             10.55          12.64         14.33         23.35          31.42         14.29        106.58
Total No. of Subprojects                 214           397            575         1,075          1,199           332         3,792
Total Beneficiaries                  425,312        170,043       538,374      2,789,077     1,198,795       400,319     6,291,920
Total Employment                       7,624          8,196        30,842        41,136         67,702        29,206       184,706
Source: FISE, 08/30/96.



31
Table B6: FISE Participation in Social Sector Investment
1991 through June 1996
(US$ million)
|Social Sector Investmentl
Education                               0.14          7.44           8.30          15.29          8.99           7.45         47.60l
|Health                                  1.90           3.88         13.85          13.43         13.68           5.53         52.27l
|Others (2)                             35.44         69.98         149.09         144.17        105.04          39.66        543.38l
|                  ~~~~~~Total    37.48          81.31         171.23        172.89         127.71         52.63        643.25l
|FISE Investmentl
Education                               2.61          5.46  .       10.60          11.90         19.58           6.74         56.89l
Health                                  0.53          2.24           0.78          6.51           6.14           4.43         20.63l
Others (3)                              7.40          4.95           3.01          4.93           5.98           3.14         29.41l
Total         10.54          12.64         14.33          23.35         31.42          14.29        106.58
|FISE Investment (percent)(4)           28.12          15.56          8.40          13.51          24.60         27.15         16.57|
Exchange rates used:                     4.85          5.00           6.12          6.72           7.53           8.12l
US$ 1.00 = Cordoba
(1) Preliminary.
(2) Others include INIFOM, INATEC, INAA, FONIF, INS, and general government.
(3) Others include water and sanitation, street paving, roads, municipal markets and slaughterhouses, and reforestation.
(4) In the early 1990s, the Ministries of Education and Health only counted investments funded internally and excluded donor-funded investments. Consequently, the
comparison in those early years lacks relevance.
Source: FISE, 09/06/96.



32
Table B7: Technical Assistance
to the Ministries of Health and Education
I ___                                                  ______lriee           Amount (C.SS)
Ministry of Health
1.     Modernization of health sector                                                     35,242
2.      Legalization of property titles for health facilities                             76,900
3.     Legal support in the areas of health career law, collective agreement with         96,677
unions, and preparation of general health law
4.      Strengthening of project preparation for primary health care investment           58,668
5.      Strengthening organization and management of drugs and medical supplies           42,773
at the facility level
6.      Strengthening MOH monitoring and evaluation system                                23,122
7.      Community health and hygiene education                                            71,820
8.     Health sector analysis                                                             27,465
9.     Health communication                                                                9,000
10.    Monitoring and control system for programs with external financing                 11,760
11.    Hospital administration development                                                 9,000
12.    Basic sanitation                                                                    1,500
13.    Strengthening of health ministry decentralized financing                            6,500
14.    Institutional strengthening of the design and implementation of health             11,750
investment system
Subtotal            482,177
Ministry of Education
1.     Legalization of property titles for education facilities (first project)           98,521
2.     Legalization of property titles for education facilities (second project)          81,658
3.     Preparation of basic education project                                             68,500
4.      Coordinating unit for basic education project                                     90,420
5.     Physical infrastructure component                                                  28,108
6.     Pre-school education component                                                      8,958
7.      Decentralization of education administration                                     111,920
8.     Design of basic education project infrastructure prototypes                         6,500
9.     Design of basic education project infrastructure maintenance manual                12,628
10.    Design and implementation of supervision system for education facility               800
property title legalization
11.    Dissemination of education democratization process                                 95,800
12.    Study of school center location                                                     8,100
13.    Basic education project component design of educational materials (part 1)          8,485
14.    Basic education project component design of educational materials (part 2)         19,894
15.    Review and revision of primary school center maintenance operation manual           3,000
16.    Management training
17.    National Plan for Sustainable Development 1996-2000                                  300
18.    Simulation model for education system                                               5,000
Subtotal             45,000
693,592
Total                                              1,175,769
Source: FISE Direcci6n Financiera Administrativa, 08/31/96.



33
Table B8: FISE Participation in the Gross Domestic Product (GDP)
1991 through June 1996
(US$ million)
........     ..  ....
Agriculture                    565.26     545.42    417.92     441.79     426.62    460.59      2,857.60
Industrial Manufacture         883.27     812.76    664.30     610.81     561.80    529.80      4,062.74
Construction                   105.24     110.52     91.66      98.28     102.05    104.61        612.36
Transport and Communications   190.97     187.90    147.49     133.66     125.40    122.38        907.80
Commerce
Others (2)                     676.23    665.34     530.84     490.89     460.05    448.99      3,272.34
1,316.66   1,318.52   1,110.99   1,012.48   924.61    885.43      6,568.69
Total                        3,737.63   3,640.46  2,963.20    2,787.91   2,600.53   2,551.80   18,281.53
FISE Investment (approved)
Amount                          10.55      12.64     14.33      23.35      31.42     25.61        119.58
Percent of GDP                   0.28      0.35       0.48       0.88       1.22      1.00          0.65
Exchange rates used:             4.85       5.00      6.12       6.72       7.53      8.12         6.33
US$ 1.00 = C6rdoba
(1) Preliminary.
(2) Others include fishing, mining, banking and insurance, housing, energy, other services, and general government.
Source: FISE, 09/05/96.



34
Table B9: Distribution of Number and Amount of Approved Subprojects
by Type of Executing Agency
1991 through July 1996
*Eacutin Agencv        Number of           oumberf           %            lotal            %
Construction firms                 116                351       7.39              21.47      17.96
Independent                        951              2,605      54.84              76.27      63.79
contractors
NGOs                                19                535      11.26               3.58       3.00
Others (1)                          59              1,258      26.51              18.24      15.26
Total                     1,145             4,750      100.00             119.58     100.00
(1) Others include construction foremen.
Source: FISE, 009/03/96.
Table BIO: Distribution of Number and Amount of Approved Subprojects
by Type of Subproject Sponsor
1991 through July 1996
Stoliciting Azenc      j      iumber uf     .'uEhier oIf   i                Total       .
Project           Pret        '               (Ui SS miltion)
__-                           Spons r        ___________J____ _          i  _  _                  _
Ministry of Education                  136              1,688      35.54              25.97     21.72
Ministry of Health                      25              1,615      34.00              18.20      15.22
Municipalities                         143              1,220      25.68              57.06     47.72
NGOs                                    71                120       2.53               8.00      6.69
Other Govermment                        11                107       2.25              10.35      8.66
Organizations
Total                        386              4,750      100.00            119.58      100.00
Source: FISE, 09/03/96.
Table Bll: Number and Amount of Approved Subprojects
by Subproject Status
1991 through July 1996
~~~~~~~~~~              . ....... .    ...     ..  .. .  .   ......   ...... . .... ...
Statu'4             Number of Prnjects     'Ya         Ii (IlS milli'.)
Approved for execution                       4,791     100.00                120.82     100.00
In process of contracting                    1,010      21.08                 15.73      13.02
Under execution                               500       10.44                 20.59      17.04
Completed                                    3,240      67.63                 83.24      68.90
Canceled                                       41        0.86                  1.26       1.04
Source: FISE, 08/30/96.



35
Table B12: Types of Subprojects under Contract by Number and Amount
1991 through July 1996
F     Sec:or/Sttbpruject Type    fNuwberg         Peocfnt  i   Amount          Percent
jpbproje      S TO       j (15S millio) IfTotal
_                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Subplrejects    Aon
Social Infrastructure                                 38.00                     62.00
Primary and Pre-Primary schools            969                       42.27
Secondary Schools                          77                         7.82
Vocational Training Centers                 18                         1.78
Health Posts                               250                        6.38
Health Centers                              51                        2.79
Hospital Areas                               2                        0.16
Old-Age Homes and Shelters                  14                         1.04
Child Centers                               14                         1.00
Potable Water                               37                        3.66
Sewerage                                   22                         3.20
Subtotal         1,454                       70.10
Economic Infrastructure                                7.00                     19.00
Drainage                                    31                        3.63
Road Improvement                           198                        16.29
Bridges                                      7                        0.78
Municipal Markets                            6                        0.51
Slaughterhouses                             14                        0.49
Other                                        5                        0.39
Subtotal           261                       22.09
Environmental Improvement                             <1.00                     <1.00
Reforestation                               15                         1.31
Other                                        0                        0.00
Subtotal            15                         1.31
Social Services                                       54.00                     18.00
Education Equipment                        757                        7.47
Health Equipment                           364                        0.52
Latrines                                   320                        9.94
Preventive Health                           87                         1.16
Community Organization/Training           450                         0.63
Water Committee Training                    0                         0.00
Feeding/Nutrition Programs                   0                        0.00
Other                                       84                        0.19
Subtotal         2,062                        19.91
Total                      3,792  100.00               113.41    100.00
Source: FISE Direcci6n General de Estadistica, 09/06/96.



36
Table B13 Amount and Uses of Funds by Year
1991 through July 1996
(US$ million)
.              .. .....-.              .   .   .. .... .... . ..     .... ....     ....
1'YI        192       *      J3        19'4          1995          191      *       I  loal
Approved funding                        10.55         12.65        14.39         24.67        31.70         25.61              119.57
Project costs                           10.55         12.64        14.33         23.35        31.42         14.29              106.58
Administration                           0.50          1.23          2.80         2.96          3.24          1.67               12.40
Total disbursements                     11.05         13.87        17.13         26.31        34.66         15.96              118.98
Source: FISE Direcci6n Financiera Administrativa, 09/02/96.
Table B14: FISE Staffing
1991 through July 1996
C,a,, if, iatio.,,              1991           1992            1993            199 4          1 995           199(.
Professiona ..    .......... ...............     .   ..   ......   ...   .........    ..   ..   ...... .....   ...........    . ..     ..   ... ..   .     . ..   .......   ...     ...    ..   .....   ..   ..   ....  ..   .........   ..   ..    ..    . ... .......
Professional
Management                                   11             12              12              12             12             12
Technical                                   17              29             49              62              67             72
Subtotal               28             41              61              74              79             84
Support                                       23             31              45              52             60             62
Total                           51              72            106             126             139            146
Source: FISE, 09/05/96.



37
Table B15: FISE Procurement Methods by Type
(1993 through 1996)
Dirn:ct (:ontracting           i          .wal .Shupiipii,     ,           Publwic l3idding                      Total
r.-- r                                                                               .-  -  T   ---    '--  --4 - -  ----  --- -- -   T T--  -
Ye .r No or N! o. of              munglill N'  . orf     % ou. uf  i   IiIoull j  No. of   Nu. (RI  I :Anoi iI  Nip. uf  !  No. of  I Arnomiui!i
Projects |  ontracts     C        Prnjectli   Cnntrauct%    CS      Priijects  Contractsi     CS      Projects  i Contramth    CS
!_,_.,n_._i   i  iiioinis  I  .j iIlilliUiis                                                         milliOIII  I
t~~ -_..~... . . __._.. ._.i
1993            327         298        24.19        90          89       33.76        74          65      31.84       491         452      89.79
1994            877         564        70.52        53          53       21.04        99          94      69.50      1,029        711     161.06
1995            896         563        76.74       140         140       65.72       121         121      98.00      1,157        824    240.46
January-         146         144       27.77       183         179       46.72        93          73      74.78       422         396     149.47
August
1996
Projected         48  notknown          8.06       290  not              33.04        76  not             72.49       414  not            113.59
August-                                                  known                             known                            known
December
1996
Projected        194  not known        35.83       473  not              79.76       169  not            147.27       838  not            262.86
Total                                                    known                             known                            known
1996
Medical                                                                                                   17.00                            17.00
Equip.
Total        2,294       1,569     207.28        756  461            200.28       463         353    363.61       3,515       2,383     771.17
Note: Procurement data was not computerized until 1993.
Source: FISE Direcci6n General de Estadistica, 09/04/96.



38
Table B16: Technical Assistance Included in the Project
Credit 2434-NI
Study              Purpabiw as defined afl                                   Status      impact
- .-..--- .       _    ~~~aippraisal/rederined                               -....-...
1. Coordination of technical   Coordination of contracting consultancies identified in  Concluded.   Twenty-five percent of planned consultancies were
assistance (consultants)      IDA Credit 2434-NI and IDB loan for the period 08/01/93                contracted; standard procedures for consultant selection
to 01/31194. (US$59,128)                                              and contracting were defined; sample contract was
approved. Also, terms of reference were established to
contract the team leader for the MED and MINSA
programs,
2 . Coordination of technical  Coordination of other consultancies with the objective of    Concluded.  Five institutional strengthening consultancies were
assistance (consultants)       assisting the compliance of FISE's Executive Department               completed for FISE; the MED technical assistance
regarding the institutional strengthening components for              coordinator was hired and five other team members were
FISE, NED and M4INSA for the period 07/15/94 to                      seletctd; a MINSA coordinator was selected, and the
03/15/95. (US$38,400)                                                 remainder of the MINSA work team has contracts
_____________________________________  __________pending.
3. FISE Accounting Systemn     Re-design of the FISE accounting system. (US$2,963)   Concluded.      The accounting system was evaluated and completely re-
____________ ___________ ___________ ___________designed.
4. Contracting Manual          Prepare FISE Contracting Manual. (US$9,500)           Concluded.      FISE Contracting Manual prepared and in use.
5. Study Tours                 Executive Department study tours. (US$1,125)          Concluded.
6. Implementation of           Establish a strategy for the implementation of dispersed,    Concluded.  Strategy defined for water and saniitation subproject
Dispersed, Rural Water and     rural water and sanitation subprojects. (US$16,257)                  implementation.
Sanitation Subprojects
7. Municipal Strengthening     Develop terms of reference for consultancies in       Concluded.     Terms of reference were developed.
Program                        participatory mnicro-planning, project management, and
automated monitoring and supervision, as part of
muiipal strengthening. (US$3,000)
Total                                  US$130,373
Source: FISE Direcci6n de Planificaci6n, 09/23/96.



FONDO DE INVERSION SOCIAL DE EMERGENCIA
FISE
AYUDA MEMORIA
NICARAGUA
Misibn de Cierre
Credito AIF / 2434 - NI
Managua, 06 de Septiembre de 1996
Entre el 02 y el 06 de Septiembre de 1996, se realizo la misi6n de" Cierre " del credito
2434 - NI integrada por los seniores Willem Struben y Rafael Flores funcionarios del
Banco Mundial y la seniora Anna Kathryn Vandever Webb consultora del mismo
Organismo. El objetivo de la misi6n fue realizar una evaluacibn retrospectiva sobre la
implementaci6n lograda en la ejecuci6n del primer Proyecto de inversi6n social contenida
en el credito, a traves de entrevistas, revision de- documentos y reuniones de trabajo.
2.    En forma resumida se pueden mencionar los siguientes logros principales obtenidos por
FISE:
2.1   La distribucion localizada de los recursos realizada en una forma justa y equitativa
en base a los distintos niveles de pobreza existentes en el Pais.
2.2   Una alta capacidad de la Instituci6n para generar y captar recursos extemos en base
a necesidades expresadas por la Comunidad, habiendo superado en un 75% al total
del financiamiento previsto en el Documento de Proyecto elaborado para la
justificaci6n del credito.
2.3   Aumento de la competitividad en los procedimientos de contrataci6n, al incrementar
el nuimero de SubProyectos contratados mediante las modalidades de concurso de
precios y licitacion puiblica.
2.4   Desarrollo y fortalecimiento del sector privado.
2.5   Administraci6n eficiente y transparente en el destino de los recursos obtenidos.
2.6   Fortalecimniento del proceso de inversion social del Pais, habiendo obtenido un 34%
de participaci6n con relaci6n a la inversi6n total realizada en el Pais durante 1995.
3.    Entre las debilidades detectadas en FISE alrededor de la ejecucion del credito, podemos
mencionar lo siguiente:
1



3.1   Baja participacion de la Comunidad en la identificaci6n, ejecuci6n y sostenibilidad
de las inversiones realizadas. Para superar este inconveniente, la Institucion esta
inviertiendo en la formulaci6n de Proyectos que incorporen en un mayor grado a la
Comunidad. Adicionalmente con el apoyo de Consultorias especificas se esta
disefiando la mecanica operativa de un fondo de mantenimiento que ayude
inicialinente con el patrocinio de fondos extemos a su formaci6n mas la contrapartida
correspondiente del Gobiemo, de tal forma que se vuelva un procedimiento regular
Institucional.
3.2   Pocaparticipaci6n de las ONG'S en la ejecucion de Proyectos. Al respecto se han
hecho varios seminarios para aumentar la coordinaci6n y deterrinar procedimientos
operativos con este tipo de Instituciones que ayuden igualmente a fomentar la
relaci6n con las Comunidades.
3.3   Poca observaci6n y medici6n del impacto generado por los Proyectos en el medio
ambiente. Sobre el particular con la ayuda de una Consultoria financiada por el
cr&dito, se estableceran los prGcedimientos organizativos y operativos de manera que
FISE funcione muy pronto en esta linea.
4.    Como un logro altamente positivo de otro componente del Proyecto, se puede mencionar el
alto grado de fortalecimiento Institucional obtenido en los Ministerios de' Salud y
Educaci6n del Pals, ya que en ambas entidades se han logrado fortalecer sus capacidades
de planificacion y normacion tecnica, lo que les ha permitido gestionar nuevas operaciones
directas con los Organismos de financiamiento.
5.    Esta misi6n agradece la cooperaci6n brindada por el personal de FISE, y se emitieron a
FISE todas las indicaciones y lineamientos necesarios que le permitan elaborar su informe
sobre la evaluaci6n del Credito a ser enviado al Banco Mundial el pr6ximo 13 de Septiembre
de 1996.
Jose Angel l   ez    IQRE'CcJo EJECUTJVA        Anna Kathryn Vandever Webb
Dci       ecivo          t I, S. E.                      Consultora
Banco Mundial
2



40
Borrower's Contribution to the ICR
(Translation)
FINAL EVALUATION REPORT ON CREDIT PROJECT 2434-NI (IDA)
OF THE NICARAGUAN EMERGENCY SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND (FISE)
(i)    Evaluation of the Project's Objectives, Design, Implementation and
Operational Experience
In February 1992, a draft Social Sector Report was discussed by IDA and the
GON. It was used to define the overall policy framework for poverty alleviation and
sectoral strategies which would form part of the safety net and of broad reform programs,
with special attention to improving quality and efficiency in the provision of primary
health, elementary education and nutrition services. In October of that year the GON
presented the Social Sector policy letter which summarized short- (1992-1995) and
medium-term (1992-1998) policies and strategies as well as details on priority programs,
implementation plans, focus and allocation of resources. Thus, the proposed IDA-FISE
project (2434-NI) would help the GON in strengthening its poverty alleviation strategy
during the adjustment period and assist line ministries in improving their institutional
capacities and complete reform programs. In this context, the program to support FISE
would complement the activities to be carried out by MED and MINSA.
The project's objective was to support the Government in its effort to alleviate
poverty and maintain social unity during the economic adjustment period, until line
ministries were able to strengthen their institutional capacities and complete reform
policies and programs. As far as possible, FISE's operating procedures, procedures and
experiences would gradually be transferred to Social Ministries to aid and improve the
efficiency and faimess of services delivered.
During the project proposal evaluation phase, FISE and IDA agreed to introduce
several changes to improve the project implementation phase for the purpose of ensuring
consistency and better focus in the context of the overall framework of this reform's social
strategy and ensuring greater social unity and support to the poor. It was necessary to
avoid overallocation of resources in the city of Managua; to design a promotion campaign
to register demands and support the formulation of subprojects in poorer, more distant
municipalities, to correct the sectoral and territorial focus of investments (as of June 30,
1992, 52% of investments had been assigned to economic infrastructure), to improve the
quality of subprojects, to design and implement the Management Information System and
the implementation of subproject quality and social impact studies. In turn, IDA would
support and coordinate the raising of sufficient grant funds from the intemational donor
community to assist the GON in strengthening safety net programs.
The project included four components, only the first of which dealt with direct
action by FISE. The other three formed part of actions complementary to FISE and the
project's macro objectives. (i) Subprojects totaling the equivalent of 89% of total project



41
cost defined as US$68 million. Subprojects would be distributed as follows: 55% for
social infrastructure, 23.5% for economic infrastructure, 20% for social assistance, and
1.5% for training communities to maintain works; (ii) technical assistance to the
Nicaraguan Institute of Statistics and Census (INEC) for implementation of the LSMS and
an analysis of its results, for a total amount equivalent to 1.3% of total project cost. This
survey of living standards would not only help to increase the GON's analytical capacity in
the social policy decision-making process, particularly on targeting poverty alleviation
efforts and monitoring social conditions, but would have particular benefits in targeting
FISE's efforts and assessing their impact; (iii) strengthening of MED and MINSA's ability
to plan and prepare subprojects that could be financed by FISE or other sources, with a
total amount equivalent to 2.6% of total project cost. The most important result expected
from this component was the creation of institutional capacity in both ministries to
prepare, select and evaluate subprojects so that the long-term benefit extends beyond the
institutional life of FISE; (iv) improvement of the financial management and budgetary
aspects of MED  and MINSA  as well as the refinement of policies dealing with
prioritization and planning of expenditures and investments, strengthening of accounting
and budget units, improvement of control mechanisms for foreign aid and specific studies
to refine the sectoral strategies of both ministries. The total amount allocated to the latter
component was equal to 1.2% of total project cost.
As one may note, various aspects that are essential to project design and objectives
were conceived under the idea of designing FISE as an emergency social compensation
instrument with a limnited institutional life, whose experiences, working methods, etc.
would be transferred to line ministries when the latter completed their strengthening
process.  However, FISE's experience shows that this has been a focused social
infrastructure process aimed at promoting economic growth with well-being, as a result of
rehabilitated or expanded infrastructure, thereby playing an important Government role
(fair and redistributive role), as in the provision of basic public services, particularly health,
education, water and sanitation which are the bases of the development of a country's
human capital. We believe that, in view of FISE's clear comparative advantages in
relation to Social Ministries and of the current status of social and State reform programs,
FISE's future role in social policy should be re-examined in order to incorporate
substantial aspects of poverty alleviation policies, particularly the eradication of extreme
poverty. In this sense, the project's initial view of returning to line ministries their
instrumental role in social policy should be reviewed. With reforms, the policy-setting and
regulatory role and the strategic formulation of policies and programs are essential aspects
of social policy leaders and coordinators who should guarantee the consistency of policies
and the integration of social programi with State reform programs that support social
development and strengthen the ability to govern.
Thus, FISE's experiences and its advantages/transparency and efficiency in
targeting the territorial and sectoral allocation of resources, operational and administrative
efficiency, accountability, participation of governments and local social development
agencies in identifying, formulating, executing and maintaining subprojects, introduction of
"market" signals through competitive procedures for contracting private enterprises,



42
operational manuals that document the systems, processes, mechanisms, procedures, ex-
ante assessment methodology, as well as the introduction of systems to monitor the quality
and social/economic impact of subprojects, ability to raise funds and administer
management information systems, should be used as dynamic elements of public sector
reform to implement (i) specific policies aimed at improving the quality, efficiency and
impact of social investment programs; (ii) policies aimed at increasing the capacities of
Municipal Governments for participatory micro-planning, administration, management and
maintenance of social investments, to gradually transfer important duties and resources
still be handled by Ministries and/or Central Government programs but which, if properly
transferred to local governments, would increase governability and citizen participation;
(iii) social policies for poverty reduction, particularly the eradication of extreme poverty.
We believe that FISE could play an important future role in implementing these policies
for the consolidation of a poverty alleviation program with long-term human capital
development.
This new approach would imply greater coordination with Municipal Governments
in order to achieve greater impact on local-level social investment and the introduction of
new elements to FISE's institutional mission, providing it with the political legitimacy to
develop intervention strategies that would allow it, first, to increase the installed capacity
both of private organizations and of public institutions dealing with local social issues, in
order to strengthen the absorption of resources; second, to strengthen local technical
capacity to analyze and use local data on the size, location and characteristics of poverty,
as well socio-demographic and sectoral data that would allow the establishment of
transparent mechanisms for sectoral and geographic allocation of resources at the local
level, more efficient organization of social investment and monitoring of its social and
economic impact; and third, to strengthen Municipal Governments' capacity to
coordinate and become part of a planning system for municipal social investment in all
social programs dealing with poverty alleviation, in order to strengthen their impact and
achieve a greater multiplying effect than if they acted alone. This would enable the
budgetary integration and streamlining of both local and Central Government resources.
(ii)   Evaluation of FISE's execution during project evolution and implementation,
with special emphasis on lessons learned that may be pertinent in the future
Since its start-up in July 1996, FISE's Administrative Council has approved 4,750
subprojects for a total of US$120.0 million, which shows that, out of an effective total
demand of US$167.0 million for subprojects, the financing of 72% was approved. This
means that FISE has responded efficiently to requests submitted by communities.
Moreover, between 1993 and 1996, monthly approvals of subprojects by the
Administrative Council totaled US$2.29 million compared to US$0.97 million between
1991 and 1992, which means that during the project's implementation phase, the approval
rate was 136% in relation to the pre-project period.
Since mid-1992, FISE has used the Poverty Map as the sole mechanism for
allocating resources at municipal level. During project implementation, it was planned that



43
20% of investments would be located in municipalities classified as Extremely Poor, 57%
in Highly Poor municipalities, and 23% in Less Poor municipalities. As of July 1996,
approvals by the Administrative Council show a distribution of 22.30% for Extremely
Poor municipalities, 58.33% for Highly Poor municipalities, and 19.37% for Less Poor
municipalities. This means that in those municipalities with a greater relative incidence of
poverty (extreme poverty) the Council approved US$33.0 per inhabitant, while in
municipalities with a lower relative incidence, those classified as medium poor, it approved
US$18.0 per inhabitant during the same time period. We believe that the new system of
allocating and targeting resources (new World Poverty Map based on the LSMS), whose
implementation is scheduled to begin in January 1997, will aid us in increasing the levels of
"program incidence".
FISE's efficiency and transparency in terms of geographic targeting and
distribution of the Program's benefits is also consistent when we look at the spatial
allocation of investments, in terms of both coverage and urban-rural location of
subprojects:
a)    During the life of the program, FISE has covered 100% of the country's 143
municipalities. It is important to point out, however, that control mechanisms have been
implemented that allow the stabilization of annual indices of coverage for 95% of all
municipalities nationwide.
b)    Between 1995-1996, 65% of subprojects were located in "rural" poverty areas
compared to the 1991-1994 period in which 42% of subprojects were located in "rural"
poverty areas; we can state that during the past year and a half the strategy of ruralizing
FISE's subprojects has been successful.
As a result of agreements between FISE and IDA during the project appraisal
phase, FISE also successfully made important modifications to its "sectoral investment
focus": management reports show that from 1993-1996 FISE financed 20% of its
investments in the area of economic infrastructure, compared to 53% between 1991-1992.
Between 1995-1996 the education, health, water and sanitation sectors made up 90% of
the contracted amounts.
During project implementation, FISE has shown an ability to generate growing and
- in relative terms - significant employment. With the exception of the special employment
generation program for the Atlantic Coast, financed by USAID and managed by an
independent executing unit, from 1991-1992 the average annual number of direct and
indirect jobs created was 1615, from 1993-1994 it was 7348, and from 1995-1996 (July) it
was 13,190. The operational expenses for generating one average job per year were
US$536.0, US$392.0 and US$186.0 for each period, respectively. This shows a growing
administrative and operational efficiency in FISE's execution. Moreover, in view of the
array of subprojects financed by FISE, the amount of investment required to generate one
average job per year (direct plus indirect) is US$2292.0.



44
As of June 1996, 71% and 29% of the total amount contracted were executed
under the modality of bidding (public or private) and direct adjudication, respectively. It is
expected that by December 1997 these overall averages will reach 80% and 20%,
respectively, meaning that FISE continues to broaden its strategy of increasing market
competitiveness.
Accumulated disbursements for projects total US$106.0 million, and accumulated
operating expenses total US$12.0 million, equivalent to a ratio of 11%. This is efficient if
we compare it to the rest of the public sector and to other, similar institutions in the
southern, central and Caribbean regions of Latin America. Moreover, 85%/o of total
subprojects approved by the Administrative Council have been effectively delivered to
communities.
The US$132.26 million in domestic and foreign resources raised for the 1995-1997
period, compared to US$91.86 million for the 1991-1994 period, represents an effective
increase of 91%. This means that, as a new government takes office, there is no risk of
leaving the institution without sufficient financing since resources available for 1997 will
be slightly more than US$65.00 million.
Moreover, FISE has managed to consolidate an important institutional
strengthening program aimed at line ministries and FISE itself It has also begun a pilot
program aimed at increasing the capacity of municipal governments with respect to
participatory micro-planning, administration, management and maintenance of education,
health, water and sanitation subprojects. The pilot maintenance program, whose design
will include the participation of the Central Government, sectors, municipal governments
and the community, will at first be aimed at creating a Preventive Maintenance Fund for
about 2200 establishments in the primary health care and education network financed by
FISE.
These inter-institutional development programs are allowing an increase in the
program's efficiency and effectiveness and the fine-tuning of processes, systems,
mechanisms and procedures in all phases of the subproject cycle, as well as the
development and implementation of systems to monitor the quality and impact of
subprojects, including new environmental impact assessment methodologies, a new
Poverty Map as the sole mechanism for resource allocation, better inter-institutional
coordination, new community participation mechanisms, better understanding of the roles
of the Central Government, Ministries, municipal governments, beneficiaries and civil
society in seeking more sustainable investment alternatives, improvements in the Ministry
of Education and Health's sectoral planning and regulatory system, the performance of
important processes of  coordination, exchange and consultation with local and
international social agents (including bilateral and multilateral financial sources) to identify
the most important elements for defining FISE's future role in the context of Nicaragua's
actual conditions.



45
iii)   Evaluation of the performance of duties by IIDA and financial cooperation
agencies during project evolution and implementation, including the
effectiveness of the relationship among IIDA, FISE and financial cooperation
agencies, with special emphasis on lessons learned.
We believe that IDA's performance of its duties and the effectiveness of its
relationship with FISE are represented by the Program's quantitative and qualitative
results. One of the most difficult aspects during the project evolution and implementation
phases has been the planning of criteria by the various financial cooperation agencies, in
relation to hiring procedures, ex-ante subproject evaluation methodology, community
participation, sectoral and territorial resource targeting and allocation, subproject quality
and NGO participation. Nearly every agency has different procedures and viewpoints on
these issues.
In addition, the achievement of some objectives and goals is contradictory. For
example, greater community participation in subproject execution is contradictory to the
objective of increasing the quality of subprojects; an increase in hiring by means of bidding
procedures is contradictory to the objective of streamlining responses or vice versa; an
increase in hiring by means of direct hiring procedures is contradictory to the objective of
increasing market competitiveness; the use of mechanisms to increase the fairness and
distributive impact of the program is contradictory to the objective of quickly responding
to excess demands for subprojects by municipalities with greater installed capacity to
formulate subprojects; greater levels of sophistication in ex-ante methodologies imply an
increase in subproject formulation requirements, which decreases even more the nearly
nonexistent capacity for formulation by applicants; greater NGO participation in the
formulation, execution and supervision of subprojects requires greater flexibility in hiring
procedures, which would imply changes in FISE and IDA guidelines or greater training of
NGOs to increase their competitiveness; the latter two are beyond FISE' s scope.
During project implementation, the various financial agencies were on one end or
another of the above-mentioned contradictions.  However, the implementation of
operating mechanisms, systems, processes, and procedures and their auditability, as well
as the ability to negotiate the proper implementation of corrective measures by FISE,
facilitated coordination with IDA and other banks, minimizing the levels of imbalance in
the execution of this and other projects. Moreover, the support and high priority given to
the FISE program by the GON were also an essential element in the project's success.



MAP SECTION






REGIONAL POVERTY (1 985)
Percentage of households in poverty *                                                                                 Dmpolm
11111 50%- <60%   [1                   701  - ,80%                                   rp,_                                                                                                             rtnionboundaries
m    Region boundaries
[1111] 60% -  70%            11       >80%                                                                                                                                                  (1)    Notional capitl
Source: INEC bas.don Er-us  Soci-D--ogrcdfice Nicra.giense, 1985.                                                                                                                                   0      Cities and towns
The  cavrt0 indeo used to clessifl households was baseBd on the presence of one or more                                                                                                                   riernat/ona' Bonais
of he olbingconitons(i)ina  qute un i..,o hosn drAmie  by dir fl--r nnd/or -1hsJvr                                                                         r  H4R4                               Intemational Bundaries
rind cei lrgsd tin ovr waste manterials; (ii) crowding if four or more people sleep in the same room;-                               jA                             !t70
(ii)loweducation levlsifthereisatleastoneWschool-ge child cot
attending school; endtin) high dependency ratio, if therre areatleant                                                                                             Puerto- Cabezo s
hoe adindiduaus nenornicaly dependent on a head of hosehold                                                                                                              C Ruzs t1 -
who hasncot completed primary-school.                                                                                                                           KAUEVJ     OTEt  _ EU IONO A  RATA LA'C<-XtII  CAib LAN F SA
Os*               SEO0 A 1                                            ATIANTIC.O    <\
= ,         /  REt't14 ^>                         ~~~(RAAN)                       9           EWU4A4  O
Petoa0               Somotillo                                RA TA GA [PA                  {            /    J      9    ~QEGION                                      0                               I0 10 60  80         1 0
X- -    L 1 A  r  La LiaX                   ) Ramo \                  /r                       r 16' UE  |                   1= 1            |~~~~~~~~L  1 ILOMTER
PuerFo siondino C HoOMA    N   ALA                                                                                                                                               80 E      L0guf  HO
R E G zlO N e   ion Ubaldoz, f /                                                                                                                         >z1 f ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ht e~ r, en rpre)tr ir rira Drk' rftctcsf
M-,ilam                                                             REG fOjJtog  REGtr                                            a    r a       h      er
CHINAN                                                                                      0                                      Tho VV.   8-k C-W Tiw d-i..fi-  .d W th.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Te iirrterkGrs. ie iceeirelrs iei a Sa
0  AAalpoisiH                                         ZEL          YA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~errtrc leraetisre r atie4ce lepareOs
CorirvtoQ            0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~edeya eyadreerorecprr trektralcr
~~~~~~~~Lool5n                                                            Boono                      REGISON V ;1S  2
La          Pamo                                            j,   1,    BE~~~~~~~~~U2Ei     ra
Puerto Sandino 0                                              C  HCO N TA   E S                                                                                                                                          AHONOURAS
REG,PN                                                San
La Boqu   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Arao  Ap                                                                                     RAC   
RIVA                                 \0RCA14                                                                                                                       PAANr
'0                                   66'                                                                      0*'                                                     er-                                           '0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~*0COT
so                                                                                                                                                                                                 'Zr~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 0 10RC









IMAGING
Report No.:          16428
Type:     ICR



