CREDIT NUMBER 2434 NI
Development Credit Agreement
(Social Investment Fund Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated Za0u.     r  721    , 1993


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 2434 NI
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated    an vo r!j Z                    , 1993,
between REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
(B)   the Association has received a letter dated October 8,
1992, from the Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives
and policies designed to improve its social sector (hereinafter
called the Program), and declaring the Borrower's commitment to the
execution of the Program;
(C)   the Borrower intends to contract from bilateral and
multilateral aid and development organizations (Financiers) loans
and grants (the Funding) in an amount equivalent to $33,600,000 to
assist in financing the Program on the terms and conditions set
forth in agreements to be entered into between the Borrower and each
of the Financiers (the Funding Agreements);
(D)   the Borrower intends to contract from      the Inter-
American Development Bank (IDB) a loan in an amount equivalent to
$16,000,000 to assist in the financing of the Project on the terms
and conditions set forth in an agreement (the IDB Loan Agreement) o
be entered into tetween the Borrower aad IDB;
(E)   the Borrower intends to contract from the United Nations
Development Program (UNDP) technical assistance services to assist
in the e-cecution of the Project on the terms and conditions set
forth in a contract (the UNDP Technical Assistant Contract) to be
entered into between the Borrower and UNDP; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section   1.01.  The  "General   Conditions  Applicable  to
Development   Credit  Agreements"   of  the   Association,  dated
January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the
General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)   "Decree No. 59-90" means the Borrower's decree No. 59-90
dated N1ovember 21, 1990 and published in the Official Gazette on
December 13, 1990;
(b)   "INEC" means the Borrower's National Institute of
Statistics and Census;
(c)   "MOE" means the Borrower's Ministry of Education;
(d)   "MOF" means the Borrower's Ministry of Finance;
(e)   "MOH" means the Borrower's Ministry of Health;
(f)   "Municipalities Targeting Plan" means the plan contained
in the Borrower's document entitled Focalizaci6n y Distribuci6n de
Recursos, Reporte Trimestral No. 2 al 31 de Julio de 1992 (Targeting
and Distribution of Resources, Quarterly Report No. 2 as of July 31,
1992), which describes the procedures to be followed by SIF (as such
term is hereinafter defined) in channelling funds through the
financing of Subprojects (as such term is hereinafter defined) to
the Borrower's municipalities and sets forth the estimated amounts
to be channelled to each one of such municipalities;
(g)   "Operational Manual" means the manual to be adopted by
SIF (as such term in hereinafter defined), in form and substance
satisfactory to the Association, pursuant to the provisions of
Section 7.01 (d) of this Agreement;


﻿-3-
(h)   "Requesting Entity" means a    governmental or non-
governmental entity which meets the eligibility criteria set forth
in the Operational Manual and which proposes to carry out or is
carrying out a Subproject (as such term is hereinafter defined);
(i)   "SIF" or "Social Investment Fund" means Fondo de
Inversi6n Social de Emergencia, the Borrower's social investment
fund established as a public decentralized entity with juridical
personality purs;,ant to Decree No. 59-90;
(j)   "SIF Subsidiary Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and SIF pursuant to Section 3.01
(b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time,
and such term includes all schedules to such agreement;
(k)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
(1)  "Subproject" means a social infrastructure subproject,
an economic infrastructure subproject, a social services subproject
or a subproject for training in infrastructure maintenance, which is
eligible for financing by FIS in accordance with the provisions of
the Operational Manual; and
(m) "Subproject Agreement" means the agreement to be entered
into, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association,
between SIF and a Requesting Entity and, where applicable, a
contractor or supplier as the same may be amended from time to time,
and such term includes all schedules to the Subproject Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the
Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to seventeen million three hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 17,300,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable


﻿-4-
cost of goods and services required for the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
(b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in a
commercial  bank   satisfactory  to  the   Association  including
appropriate protection against set-off seizure or attachment on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association. Deposits into,
and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1995 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Association
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant
to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year
shall be applied from the next payment date in that year specified
in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as  the  Association   shall  reasonably  request;  (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such
other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.


﻿-5-
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on May 15 and November 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-
annual installments payable on each May 15 and November 15
commencing May 15, 2003 and ending November 15, 2032. Each
installment to and including the installment payable on November 15,
2012 shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal
amount.
(b)   Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years; and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the
Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the
Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, prs ided that, in the judgment of the Association,
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the
terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Condit-ons.


﻿-6-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end:
(i)    shall carry out:
(A)   Part B of the Project through INEC;
(B)   Part C of the Project through MOE and MOH;
and
(C)   Part D of the Project through MOF, all
with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate financial,
administrative and economic practices, and
shall provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for such Parts of the
Project; and
(ii)   shall cause SIF to carry out Part A of the
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate economic, financial,
administrative, managerial and environmental
practices, shall take or cause to be taken all
action, including the provision of funds,
facilities,   services  and   other  resources,
necessary or appropriate to enable SIF to carry
out Part A of the Project, and shall not take or
permit to be taken any action which would
prevent or interfere with the carrying out of
such part of the Project.
(b)   The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit
allocated for Part A of the Project available to SIF under a
subsidiary agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and
SIF, under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by
the Association, which shall include SIF's obligation to carry out
Part A of the Project in accordance with the provisions of this
Agreement and the Operational Manual.


﻿-7-
(c)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights and comply with
its obligations under the SIF Subsidiary Agreement in such manner as
to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Association, and to
accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and, except as the
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not change,
assign, amend, abrogate or waive the SIF Subsidiary Agreement or any
provision thereof.
(d)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Borrower and the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out Parts B, C and D of
the Project, and shall cause SIF to carry out Part A of the Project,
in accordance with performance targets and implementation indicators
acceptable to the Association.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultantsO services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Association and the Borrower hereby agree
that the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04. 9.05, 9.06,
9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use
of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports,
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of Parts
A of the Project shall be carried out by SIF.
Section 3.04. The Borrower undertakes that, unless the
Association shall otherwise agree, Subprojects shall be promoted,
identified, appraised, approved, carried out and monitored in
accordance with the procedures set forth or referred to in the
Operational Manual.
Section 3.05. Without limitation to its obligations under
Article IX of the General Conditions, the Borrower shall and shall
cause SIP in respect of Part A of the Project:
(a)   promptly inform the Association of any condition which
interferes, or threatens to interfere, with the progress of the
Project or the Subprojects, the accomplishment of the purposes of
the Credit, or the performance of SIP of its obligations under the
SIP Subsidiary Agreement, or the performance of SIP and the
Requesting Entities (or a contractor or supplier where applicable)
under their respective Subproject Agreements; and


﻿-8-
(b)   not later than June 30 and December 31 each year:
(i)    furnish to the Association a report, in form
satisfactory to the Association, containing,
inter alia: (A) a list of Subprojects approved
by SIF; and (B) the Borrower's and SIF's
progress made in meeting the performance targets
and implementation indicators referred to in
Section 3.01 (d) of this Agreement; and
(ii)   review  with   the  Association  the   standard
regionalized unit prices for goods and works
adopted by SIF;
Section 3.06. (a) Notwithstanding the provisions of Schedule
1 to this Agreement, the Association may refrain from approving
requests for disbursements for Subprojects in excess of the
following aggregate amounts financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit: (i) SDR 4,600,000 equivalent, within the period ending on
June 30, 1993; and (ii) SDR 9,200,000 equivalent, within the period
ending on February 28, 1994; provided, however, that, without
limitation to the provision of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, any action under this paragraph shall not affect
disbursements for Subprojects in respect of which any disbursements
from the Credit Account have been made before the taking of any such
action.
(b)   Not later than June 30, 1993, the Borrower and the
Association shall review the progress made by the Borrower in the
carrying out of the Program and the Project, such progress to
include, inter alia, the achievement of the following: (i) imple-
mentation of a targeting system, satisfactory to the Association, of
Subprojects and the goals thereof; (ii) an appropriate structure for
processing Subprojects including adequate staffing for evaluation
and supervision of Subprojects; and (iii) efficiency in Subproject
execution, procurement and contractual practices.
(c)   Not later than February 28, 1994, review with the
Association the progress made in the carrying out of the Program and
the Project, and in meeting the performance targets and imple-
mentation indicators referred to in Section 3.01 (d) of this
Agreement.


﻿-9-
(d)   If, at any of the reviews referred to in paragraphs (b)
or (c) above, the Association shall have considered as non-
satisfactory the progress made by the Borrower in the carrying out
of the Project or the Program, the Association may refrain (subject
to the proviso in paragraph (a) above) from approving requests for
disbursement for Subprojects until the Borrower shall have: (A)
prepared and furnished to the Association, an action plan, satis-
factory to the Association, as shall be necessary to achieve such
satisfactory progress, such action plan to be prepared: (i) not
later than July 31, 1993, with respect to paragraph (b) above; and
(ii) not later than March 31, 1994, with respect to paragraph (c)
above; and (B) commenced implementation of such action plans in a
manner satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.07. Without limitation to its obligations under the
General Conditions and under Section 3.01 (a) of this Agreement, the
Borrower shall: (a) allocate in its annual budget for SIF, and make
available promptly as needed, for the years 1993 through 1995, the
following minimum amounts, as counterpart funds for the financing of
Part A of the Project:
(i)    $3,650,000 equivalent for calendar year 1993;
(ii)   $2,666,000 equivalent for calendar year 1994;
and
(iii) $2,666,000 equivalent for calendar year 1995;
and
(b)   advance, from the amounts referred to in paragraph (a)
of this Section, and no later than the first day of each quarter,
amounts sufficient to cover the counterpart funding requirements for
the Project during such quarter.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall cause SIF:
(a)   to carry out the Municipalities Targeting Plan in
accordance with the terms of such plan; and
(b)   except as the Association shall otherwise agree: (i) not
approve funding of new Subprojects for the benefit of: (A) Managua
for amounts exceeding 18% of the total funds availabl;7 to FIS for
the financing of Subprojects; and (B) the other medium poverty
municipalities listed in the Municipalities Targeting Plan, for
amounts exceeding 7% of the total funds available to FIS for the


﻿- 10 -
financing of Subprojects; and (ii) not to change or waive the
Municipalities Targeting Plan.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall, not later than March 31,
1993 conclude implementation of the survey referred to in Part B.1
of the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained and shall cause SIF to maintain (in respect of Part A of
the Project) records and separate accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with sound accounting practices, the operations,
resources and expenditures in respect of the Project.
(b)   The Borrower shall, and shall cause SIF to:
(i)    have the records and accounts referred to in
paragraph (a) of this Section including those
for the Special Account for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with approporiate auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)    furnish  to   the  Association,   as   soon  as
available, but in any case not later than six
months after the end of each such year, a
certified copy of the report of such audit by
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
as  the   Association  shall   have  reasonably
requested; and
(iii)    furnish   to   the   Association   such   other
information concerning said records, accounts
and the audit thereof as the Association shall
from time to time reasonably request.
(c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall, and shall cause SIF to:
(i)    maintain   or  cause   to  be  maintained,   in
accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,


﻿- 11 -
records    and   accounts    reflecting    such
expenditures;
(ii)    retain, until at least one year after the
Association has received the audit for the
fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from
the Credit Account was made, all records
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts
and    other   documents)    evidencing    such
expenditures;
(iii)    enable the Association's representatives to
examine such records; and
(iv)    ensure that   such records and accounts are
included in the annual audit referred to in
paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
report of such audit contains a separate opinion
by said auditors as to whether the statements of
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
together with the procedures and internal
controls involved in their preparation, carn be
relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. Without limitation to the provisions of Section
4.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall cause:
(a)   SIF's operations to be audited every quarter during the
execution of the Project, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association, such audits to include a financial review of
Subprojects and a physical inspection of works in the field; and
(b)   SIF to furnish to the Association, as soon as available,
but in any case not later than two months after the end of each such
quarter, a certified copy of the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall
have reasonably requested.


﻿- 12 -
ARTICLE V
Other Covenants
Section 5.01. The Borrower shall cause SIF:
(a)   to take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or
to make other provision satisfactory to the Association for,
insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be
consistent with appropriate practice;
(b)   to carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in
accordance  with   sound   administrative,  economic,  financial,
managerial and environmental practices under the supervision of
qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in
adequate numbers;
(c)   without limitation to the provisions of paragraph (b)
above, to maintain a chairman of its board and an executive director
whose experience and qualifications shall be at all times acceptable
to the Association, and to obtain the Association's approval with
respect to the replacement of such chairman and an executive
director prior to any such replacement; and
(d)   at all times to operate and to maintain its plants,
machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to time,
promptly as needed, to make all necessary repairs and renewals
thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, financial and
economic and environmental practices.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Association
Section 6.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a)   Decree No. 50-90 or any provision thereof or the
legislation providing for the designation or establishment of a
successor to SIF shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated,
repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely, in the
opinion of the Association, the ability of SIF or the successor to
SIF to perform any of its obligations under the SIF Subsidiary
Agreement or under any Subproject Agreement;


﻿- 13 -
(b)   as a result of events which have occurred after the date
of this Agreement, a situation shall have arisen which shall make it
improbable that SIF will be able to perform its obligations under
the SIF Subsidiary Agreement or under any Subproject Agreement;
(c)   the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment
of SIF, or for the suspension of its operations before November 20,
1995;
(d)   the Borrower shall have failed to designate or establish
a successor to SIF, satisfactory to the Association, for purposes of
carrying out Part A of the Project in the event that SIF shall cease
to exist before completion of such Part of the Project or the
Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of such successor
of SIF, or for the suspension of its operations, before completion
of such Part of the Project;
(e)   the Funding Agreements referred to in Section 7.01 (b)
of this Agreement or the IDB Loan Agreement or the UNDP Technical
Assistance Contract shall have failed to become effective by
June 30, 1993, or such later date as the Association may agree,
provided, however, that the provisions of this paragraph shall not
apply if the Borrower establishes, to the satisfaction of the
Association, that adequate funds for the Project or the technical
assistance to be provided under the UNDP Technical Assistance
Contract are available to the Borrower from other sources, on terms
and conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under
the Funding Agreements, the IDB Loan Agreement and the UNDP
Technical Assistance Contract;
(f)   (i)    Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A)   The right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of any grant or loan made to the
Borrower for the financing of the Project
shall have been suspended, cancelled or
terminated in whole or in part, pursuant
to the terms of the agreement providing
therefor; or
(B)   any such loan shall have become due and
payable prior to the agreed maturity
thereof; and


﻿- 14 -
(ii)    Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not
apply if the Borrower establishes to the
satisfaction of the Association that:
(A)   such suspension, cancellation, termination
or prematuring is not caused by the
failure of the Borrower to perform any of
its obligations under such agreement; and
(B)   adequate  funds  for  the   Project  are
available to the Borrower from other
sources on terms and conditions consistent
with the obligations of the Borrower under
this Agreement;
(g)   the  Operational Manual   shall have been    amended,
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect, in the
opinion of the Association, materially and adversely the ability of
SIF to carry out Part A of the Project or to perform its obligations
under the SIF Subsidiary Agreement; and
(h)   SIF shall have failed to comply with any of its
obligations under the SIF Subsidiary Agreement.
Section 6.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a)   the events specified in paragraphs (d) or (g) or (h) of
Section 6.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a
period of thirty days after notice thereof shall have been given by
the Association to the Borrower;
(b)   the events specified in paragraphs (a) or (c) of Section
6.01 of this Agreement shall occur; and
(c)   any event specified in paragraph (f) (i) (A) of Section
6.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of
paragraph (f) (ii) of that Section.


﻿- 15 -
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
(a)   the SIF Subsidiary Agreement has been entered into
between the Borrower and SIF;
(b)   Funding Agreements have been entered into between the
Borrower or SIF on the one hand and the Financiers on the other
hand, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association,
for an aggregate amount equivalent to $3,500,000;
(c)   the IDB Loan Agreement and the UNDP Technical Assistance
Contract have been entered into between the Borrower or SIF on the
one hand, and IDB and UNDP, respectively, on the other hand;
(d)   the Operational Manual has been adopted by SIF; and
(e)   SIF has established, in a manner satisfactory to the
Association, a management information system satisfactory to the
Association and has submitted to the Association the reports and
performance indicators produced for use during the execution of the
Project by such management information system as of the Effective
Date.
Section 7.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association:
(a)   that the SIF    Subsidiary Agreement has been    duly
authorized or ratified by, and is legally binding upon the Borrower
and SIF in accordance with its terms;
(b)   that the Funding Agreements referred to in Section 7.01
(b) of this Agreement, the IDB Loan Agreement and the UNDP Technical
Assistance Contract have been duly authorized or ratified by, and
are legally binding upon the respective parties thereto, in
accordance with their respective terms; and


﻿- 16 -
(c)   that the Operational Manual has been duly adopted by
SIF.
Section 7.03. The date Apnf 12, 1                  is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General
Conditions.
Section 7.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections
3.01 (c) and 3.04 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the
date on which this Agreement shall terminate or on the date 10 years
after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VIII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 8.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministerio de Finanzas
Frente al Edificio de la
Asamblea Nacional
Managua, D.N.
Nicaragua
c/o Ministerio de Economia y Desarrollo
Carretera Masaya
Frente al Camino de Oriente
Apartado 8
Managua, D.N.
Nicaragua
Telex:
2410
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿- 17 -
Cable address:                  Telex:
INDEVAS                    248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.            82987 (FTCC)
64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA
By    j/ ER      S1To PALA2o Z     4r7.TADO
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated         % of
(Expressed in      Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)   Subprojects                     )       90% of amounts
)        disbursed by
(a) All Subprojects   14,510,000)       SIF for each
other than                 )        Subproject for
Maintenance                )        which a Sub-
Training Sub-              )        project Agreement
projects                   )        has been signed
)       on or before
(b) Maintenance          620,000)       December 31, 1994
Training Sub-              )
projects                   )
(2)   Consultants                     )
Services:                       )
(a) for Part A            70,000)
of the                     )
Project                    )
(b) for Part B           140,000)
of the                     )        100%
Project                    )
(c) for Part C           280,000)
of the                     )
Project                    )


﻿- 19 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(d) for Part D           490,000)
of the                       )
Project                      )
(3)   Auditor Services         140,000)        100%
(4)   Goods:                          )        100% of foreign
)        expenditures, 100%
(a) for Part A           210,000)        of local expendi-
of the                      )        tures (ex-factory
Project                      )       cost) and 75% of
)        local expenditures
(b) for Parts C          140,000)        for other items
and D of the                )        procured locally
Project                      )
(5)   Unallocated              700,000
TOTAL              17,300,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower;
(b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower; and
(c)   the term   "Maintenance Training  Subprojects" means
subprojects for the training of groups and individuals in the
maintenance of infrastructure works.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of: (a) payments made for


﻿- 20 -
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed SDR 1,040,000, may
be made on account of payments made for expenditures before that
date but after July 1, 1992; and
(b)   payments made under any Subproject costing more than the
equivalent of $250,000 and each of the first two Subprojects for
social infractructure, social services, economic infrastructure and
work maintenance training, unless the Association shall have
approved the respective Subproject.


﻿- 21 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (a) to assist the Borrower
sustain its poverty alleviation efforts and maintain social
cohesion; and (b) to strengthen the institutional capacity of INEC,
MOE and MOH.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     SIF
1.    Carrying out of Subprojects.
2.    Strengthening of FIS' capabilities in the appraisal, approval
and supervision of Subprojects.
Part B:     Living Standards Survey
1.    Implementation of a living standard measurement survey and
analysis of its results.
2.    Creation of a system to monitor living standards data,
including data on: (a) overall welfare levels in the different
regions of the Borrower's territory; (b) employment and cost of
labor; (c) price indexes; (d) preferences and functioning of the
informal sector; and (e) migration.
Part C:     Institutional Strengthening of MOE and MOH
1.    Strengthening MOE's and MOH's capabilities in: (a) preparing
Subprojects; and (b) developing and implementing maintenance systems
for its facilities.
2.    Preparation   of  infrastructure  maintenance   manuals  and
organization and training of local community groups in such
maintenance.


﻿- 22 -
Part D:     Social Sector Management
Strengthening of the budgeting and financial management
capabilities of selected institutions of the Borrower's social
sector.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1994.


﻿- 23 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I. Procurement of Works
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part C hereof, works shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank
in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
2.    To the extent practicable, contracts for works shall be
grouped into bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of
$500,000 or more for works.
Part B:     Preference for Domestic Contractors
In the procurement of works in accordance uith the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, the Borrower may grant a margin of
preference to domestic contractors in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Goods shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis
of comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three
suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Association.
2.    Works estimated to cost the equivalent of $500,000 or less per
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of
$17,500,000 may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
competitive  bidding  advertised  locally,   in  accordance  with
procedures satisfactory to the Association.
3.    Works estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or less per
contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $3,500,000, may be
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price
quotations obtained from at least three contractors eligible under
the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the
Association.


﻿- 24 -
4.    Works estimated to cost the equivalent of $30,000 or less per
contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent of $3,400,000, may be
procured under contracts awarded through direct contracting, in
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association,
provided, however, that after any of the reviews by the Association
of the standard regionalized unit prices adopted by SIF, the
Association shall not find such prices unreasonable.
Part D:     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
(a)  With respect to each contract: (a) procured pursuant to
the provisions of Part A hereof; (b) for works estimated to cost the
equivalent of $250,000 or more and for goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $150,000 or more; and (c) the first two contracts
procured pursuant to the provisions of Parts D.3 and D.4 hereof, the
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be
made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified
to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract required to
be furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d)
shall be furnished to the Association prior to the making of the
first payment out of the Special Account in respect of such
contract.
(b)  With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the
Credit Account are to be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure.
2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.


﻿- 25 -
Section II. Employment of Consultants
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be selected
in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the
Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.


﻿- 26 -
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1)
through (4) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
(b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount of
$2,500,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited in
the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for
a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests,
the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
Credit Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association
requests for deposits into the Special Account
at such intervals as the Association shall
specify.


﻿- 27 -
(ii)    Prior to or at the time of each such request,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Association
the documents and other evidence required
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the
payment or payments in respect of which
replenishment is requested. On the basis of each
such request, the Association shall, on behalf
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
Account and deposit into the Special Account
such amount as the Borrower shall have requested
and as shall have been shown by said documents
and other evidence to have been paid out of the
Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from
the Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by
said documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph      3  of  this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
(a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article
V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; or
(b)   once  the total unwithdrawn    amount  of the   Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall


﻿- 28 -
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from
the Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the
Association may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account
(or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association)
an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof
not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise
agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence
or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to
the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
(d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs
6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


