Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY F\j E
Report No. 2 5 7 7
PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
MEXICO FOURTH LIVESTOCK AND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 910-ME)
June 29, 1979
Operations Evaluation Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Project Performance Audit Report
MEXICO FOURTH LIVESTOCK AND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 910-ME)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
Preface                                                               i
Basic Data Sheet                                                     ii
Disbursement Table                                                  iii
Highlights                                                          iv
PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT MEMORANDUM
I.        Summary                                                    1
II.       Main Issues                                                4
A.  The Adequacy of the Project Design                     4
B.  Interest and Rediscounting Rates                       7
C.  Monitoring and Evaluation                             11
Annex 1:  Borrower's Comments                                        16
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
I.        Background                                                17
II.       Project Description                                       17
III.      Project Implementation                                    18
IV.       Project Impact                                            36
V.        Bank Performance                                          47
VI.       Special Issues and Conclusions                            49
Annexes 1-4
Map
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without IFC authorization.






- i -
Project Performance Audit Report
MEXICO FOURTH LIVESTOCK AND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 910-ME)
PREFACE
This is a performance audit of the Fourth Livestock and Agricul-
tural Development Project in Mexico for which Loan 910-ME was approved in
June 1973 in the sum of US$110 million. The final disbursement in respect
of this loan was made on October 29, 1975.
The audit report consists of an audit memorandum prepared by
the Operations Evaluation Department and a Project Completion Report
dated August 11, 1978. The PCR was prepared by the Latin America and
Caribbean Regional Office on the basis of a country visit in November
1976. The audit memorandum is based on a review of the Appraisal Report
(No. PA 133A) dated May 25, 1973, the President's Report (P-1240A) of
May 30, 1973, the Loan Agreement dated June 18, 1973 and the PCR;
correspondence with the Borrower and internal Bank memoranda on project
issues as contained in relevant Bank files have also been consulted and
Bank staff associated with the project have been interviewed.
A copy of the draft report was sent to the Borrower on
May 3, 1979. The response received is at Annex 1 of the PPAM.
On the basis of this abbreviated review process, the audit finds
no reason to question the accuracy and adequacy of the PCR with respect
to the project's principal achievements and shortcomings. The points
discussed by the audit have been selected because of their importance to this
and other agricultural credit projects.






- ii -
PROJi.ECT iF:RRFRMANCE AUIDIT RfEorT BASI:C DATA SllEE1T
MEXICO FO0RTHII I_VESTOCK D)EVEL.OPME:NT PROJECT (LOAN 910-'E)
iiEY PROJECT DATA
Appraisal              Actual or
Item                                        Expectation         Current Estimate
Total Project Cost (US$ millioni)                         271.7                  302.4
Overrun ()                                                                     11
Loan Amount (1I'$ million)                                110.0                  110.0    /I
Disbursed       )                                                             110.0
Cancelled       )   March 31, 1979                       -                      0
Repaid to       )                                        -                      5.8
Outstanding to )                                         -                    104.2
Date for Cconpletion of P'hysical Components              n.a.                    n.a.
Proportion Completed by Appraisal Target Date (Z)        -                     n.a.
Proportion of Time Underrun ()-                                                60
Incremental Econiomic Rate of Return (Z)                   29                     18
OTHER PROJECT DATA
Original                               Actual or
Item                           Plan            Revisions        Current Estimate
First Mention in l'iles or Timietable      -                  -                 05/11/77
CGoverionene t 's AppI icnt ion            -                   -                05/11/72
Nh,-gt i:lt i..s                        05/14/73              -                 05/14i/3
Roard Approval                          06!12/73                                06/12/73
loan Agreemf-nt1 D.ate                  06/1/73              -                 06/18/71
Effectiv.neFs Date                      10/21!73           11!20/73             10/,24/73
Closing Date                            06/30/78          (18/'1 /75            10/274/75
Borrower                                            Nacional Financiers S.A.
Exercut ilng Agency                                 Foo'do dIe (:l ant in y Ioe'.ento
Fisc nl Y,-it' Ic, Lot r-wr                        Jan',:,ry I - I-:cvnlrber 31
Follow-oln) Project:-' Nanmes                       Fiftl Aj ni(lt irnIl & Live stock Dev.
and Sixth Agric,-ltural Credit
Loan Num'-r.c                                    121 7-MIE .:mJ I 561-'i
&Asao,,,ts (UiS C., i I I i,n)                   li:SI25.0 ani i;.iiu
Loan Agreenme-t Dates                            03/11/76 wint 09/?7/78
MISSI0N PDlATA
Monthh        No. of         No. of                         Dnat, of
Mi.ssion /I         Year          W,-,ks        Persols        Menneets         PIelpt-
Appraisal               10/72           5              8             40             05/25/73
Spnpervision    1       06/73           2              1               2            06/18/73
S,.pervision  II        11/73           2              4               8            01 /04/74
Su.pervision  III      04/74            2              1               2            ol4/15/74
Suipervis ion  IV      09/74            3              2               6            10/21/74
Sopereision    V        12/74           4              2               8            12/23/74
S.pervisiont  VI       t)6/75           5              3              15            06/13/75
Supervisioin VII       05/76            1              ?               2            06/07/76
Supervisiwi VIII        11/76           3              2               6            01 /05/77
Complet iom             11/7t6         10              2              20            08/1J/7lt
Total                                                             69
COUIN'ritY EXCIIANGE RATES
Name of Curreincy (Abbreviation)                       Peso                    (M.-xS)
Year:
Appraisal V-ir Averag.-                           Fxchang,: Rat,:: IT:ES;I  12.5
Intervsen ing Y Yns Average                                       1Is-,.]  1?.'.
Com.pl Cetion Year Averi,ge                                       iUS$1 = 12.5
/] P1; oc!. exrh::eg. aIjn.. tmee!t of 0.'34.






- iii -
Project Performance Audit Report
MEXICO FOURTH LIVESTOCK AND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 910-ME)
Disbursement Table
(US$ million, cumulative)
Appraisal          Actual            Actual as %
Period ending        Estimate        Disbursements        of Estimate
12/31/73             4.0                                    0
06/30/74            13.9                -                   0
12/31/74            29.2               57.9               198
06/30/75            54.8               78.3               143
12/31/75            77.1              110.0               143
06/30/76            94.3                -                  -
12/31/76           107.2
06/30/77           110.0






- iv -
Project Performance Audit Report
MEXICO FOURTH LIVESTOCK AND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 910-ME)
HIGHLIGHTS
The Fourth Livestock and Agricultural Development Project provided
funds for medium and long-term lending for agricultural, livestock and agro-
industrial investments. Funds were channeled through the Fideicomisos
Institutidos en el Banco De Mexico en Relacion con la Agricultura (FIRA).
The Fourth project contained two main subcomponents, one, to finance invest-
ments judged feasible for commercial financing on a country-wide basis and
two, a new program designed to provide development credit and extensive
technical assistance to small farmers in poor agricultural regions.
The project financed a large and diverse set of investments.
Nearly 11,000 subloans benefitted 54,000 subborrowers in the two sub-
components. Deviation from appraisal forecasts of investments, away from
land improvements and towards more breeding stock, occurred in both sub-
components. Inadequate attention to research, and an insufficient number
of agricultural technical agents in Mexico, resulted in a lack of suitable
applied technology for implementation during the project. The economic rate
of return is tentatively estimated at 18 percent, lower than the appraisal
estimate of 29%.
Points of special interest are:
- success in establishment of a new project subcomponent for
lending to small farmers (PPAM paras. 2, 28, 37,.
PCR para. 6.05);
- Bank's acceptance of low interest rates on subloans to
small farmers led to reduction in lendings and technical
assistance to this group (PPAM paras. 25-39);
- inadequacy of the project design for the fourth loan
(PPAM paras. 14-24);
-  FIRA's progress in development of research and demonstration
facilities led to reduction in production costs (PCR
para. 3.10);
- difficulties and high costs of establishing a monitoring and
evaluation system for project subloans (PPAM paras. 40-55,
PCR paras. 3.04-3.09, 5.02, 6.04);
- FIRA's need to participate in project identification for
agro-industrial subloans at an earlier stage (PCR paras.
3.27-3.28).






Project Performance Audit Memorandum
MEXICO FOURTH LIVESTOCK AND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 910-ME)
I. SUMMARY
Background
1.         Since 1965 the Bank has approved six loans totalling US$600
million equivalent to Mexico to support an agricultural credit program
providing medium and long term funds for livestock, agricultural and
agro-industrial development. All six loans have been channeled through
the Fideicomisos Institutidos en el Banco de Mexico en Relacion con la
Agricultura (FIRA), an administrative body providing common management
for a group of three trust funds within the Bank of Mexico (BANXICO).
These three funds jointly promote the flow of credit to the agricultural
sector.
2.         The fourth program was designed as a continuation of efforts
financed under the first three projects. It contained two main sub-
components:
i) the General Sub-project (GSP) which supported livestock,
crop production and agro-industrial investments judged feasible for
commercial financing on a country-wide basis. Participating credit
institutions, both public and private, extended loans to producers
and received refinancing from FIRA; and
ii) the Low Income Producers Sub-project (LIPSP) which
initiated a new program to assist small farmers, both ejidatarios and
individual proprietors, through the provision of development credit
and extensive technical assistance. A small fund for agro-industrial
financing was included in this subcomponent. In addition the project
provided additional funds for 1) production oriented studies and
demonstrations and 2) technical training for FIRA and participating
banks' staff, and for project farmers.
3.         FIRA continued to build upon its growing project experience
and performed as an able and efficient institution. It strengthened
the technical capacity of its staff through training abroad,
transferred 130 technical staff to work full time on the PIPSP sub-
component, added to its agro-industrial staff and continued the
regional decentralization of its operations.



- 2 -
4.        The Loan Agreement required FIRA to measure the on-farm and
agro-industrial impact of project investments. This is an area in
which FIRA has been relatively weak. After an initial slowness, largely
based on its concern with the cost of the effort which was proposed by
the Bank, FIRA took steps to fulfill its commitment. A monitoring and
evaluation unit was established in early 1976. Its efforts have
focused on sub-borrowers under the LIPSP subprogram, producing two
useful reports. More effort is needed, however, particularly regarding
the impact of subloans within the GSP subcomponent. As the cost of the
monitoring and evaluation effort has been high, a re-examination is
merited to clarify goals, methodology, and the incidence of the costs
of evaluation.
5.        A set of graduated interest rates were established for
project sub-borrowers ranging from 10 to 12 percent for commercial
borrowers under the GSP subproject. Interest rates to LIPSP sub-
borrowers were set at 7.6 percent, the rate established by Government
for low-income producers throughout Mexico. The Bank was concerned
that this rate was too low, and that the funds used for interest rate
subsidy would better be spent on agricultural research and technical
assistance. The Bank did not press the Government sufficiently on
this issue, either during negotiations or during implementation.
6.         Because of rising inflation in Mexico, all sublending rates
(both GSP and LIPSP) were negative by the time the project became
effective. Rising costs, associated with inflation and higher technical
assistance costs to LIPSP sub-borrowers, resulted in two small
modifications of the interest and rediscounting rates for the GSP
subcomponent. The rates for LIPSP sub-borrowers were not changed. All
on-lending interest rates have remained negative throughout the last
six years.
7.        The Loan Agreement stipulated that FIRA encourage all agro-
industrial sub-borrowers to obtain several price quotations from several
countries for any contract for equipment and associated services financed
out of the loan. The formula employed was designed to ensure inter-
national "shopping" without the formal procedures of ICB. FIRA had
difficulty meeting the project agreement formula and expressed the
judgement that this regulation was both too inflexible and time
consuming. The Bank agreed to relax the formula and allow approval
when the sub-borrowers had evidenced reasonable effort at shopping.
The new system seems to have worked well.
8.         Disbursement of funds proceeded quickly and was completed
in October 1975. The project financed 10,900 subloans, compared
with 12,600 forecast at appraisal.    The project reached 54,000



- 3 -
beneficiaries under the two subcomponents. There were 30,500 beneficiaries
under the GSP program, nearly triple appraisal predictions. A much greater
than expected number of subloans were made to ejido groups, private
sociedades, and to private grupos solidarios.     This pattern reflects the
income disparities which exist among ejidos, as well as the Government's
policy to encourage loans to farmer groups. There were 23,500 beneficiaries
under the LIPSP program, essentially the number forecast at appraisal. However,
during project implementation the volume of lending to low income producers
was reduced from appraisal forecasts by about 30 percent because the low
rediscount rate and higher technical costs for this subcomponent placed
a severe financial strain on FIRA.
9.        The average size of the GSP subloans was about 50 percent higher
than projected, at US$22,000. The average size of the LIPSP subloans was
about 33 percent below the appraisal estimates, at US$19,200. Livestock
operations absorbed 53 percent of the total investment items financed with
project funds. Within livestock loans, 66 percent of the investments
were for breeding stock. Thus, investments deviated from appraisal
assumptions by placing much less emphasis on land improvement and irrigation
investments (4 and 5 percent of livestock investments, respectively).
For annual crops, which accounted for 23 percent of total project investments
40 percent of the subcomponent investments went to machinery, 39 percent
to land improvement and 14 percent to irrigation.
10.       The pattern of systematic deviations away from appraisal forecasts
for investment by category reflects the lack of appropriate applied
technology in Mexico for recommending to sub-borrowers, and the continuing
reluctance of farmers and ranchers to invest in land improvements due to
agrarian reform legislation and pressures. Data from FIRA's monitoring
system indicate that project investments have caused additional land
to be brought into production, but the investments have caused little
increase in the crop yields or in livestock herd technical coefficients.
11.       The economic rate of return estimated at appraisal was 29
percent. This was a weighted average of the returns to a diverse set of
investments in different production activities. Insufficient evidence
is available to permit a precise measure of actual investment impact,
and some loans have not yet matured. The PCR tentatively estimates
the rate of return at 18 percent. However, as beef cattle investments
have had the lowest rate of return, and have assumed a greater than
predicted importance, this estimate may be too optimistic.



- 4 -
II. MAIN ISSUES
A.         The Adequacy of the Project Design
12.       The first agricultural and livestock credit project was designed
to increase private bank participation in lending to the agricultural
sector. Because most private banks, in 1965, were not accustomed to working
in the agricultural sector, had little or no staff specialized in this
area, and viewed the sector as being highly risky and of low profitability,
Bank funds were to be on-lent through FIRA, and the participating banks,
to farmer-s. The participating banks, through the discount mechanism,
were thus enabled to make a volume of loans much greater than the amount
of funds committed from their own resources, and the rate of return on their
own funds was sharply increased. Further, the appraisal of individual farm
investments, originally carried out chiefly by FIRA agents, did much to
reduce bank costs and to reduce the risk of the loans made.
13.       The agricultural and livestock credit program has evolved
considerably from this beginning. Public as well as private banks now
participate. The agricultural staffs of the participating banks have
grown markedly and improved in quality. These staffs now take responsibility
for most on-ranch investment appraisal and supervision. FIRA technicians
have become increasingly specialized, concentrating on staff training,
program promotion, coordination, and new technology. FIRA has decentralized
its activities into ecologically similar regions, and provided its local
offices with greater independence. The scope of the program has grown
enormously in terms of the number of loans made, the total volume of
lending, the special distribution of loans, and the variety of investments
for which funds are offered. In addition, FIRA manages other credit
programs, some within the context of other Bank projects (with additional
Bank support) as well as having growing amounts of domestic funds available.
Both the private and, especially, the public banks also lend to agriculture
from their own resources, i.e., funds which are not discounted through FIRA.
14.       The growing complexity and volume of FIRA's lending, and the
increase in total credit to the agricultural sector, suggest that a number
of changes would perhaps be made in the way in which the agriculture and
livestock credit projects are appraised and supervised. Project staff
has been aware of this need for some time, and received, as early as 1976,
strong opinions from FIRA and the Banco Nacional de Credito Rural (BNCR)
that they were in agreement. However, several factors have impeded the
design of a new approach acceptable to the Bank and the Governmentl/.
1/ The Region comments that at the time of appraisal the Bank was not
willing to use a sector approach to agricultural lending. A region
specific project as an alternative would not have been accepted
by FIRA and BNCR.



- 5 -
Both the fifth and the sixth projects followed a similar approach.
The proper solution is not wholly clear, but several problems evident
in the fourth project are related to what appears to be currently
unsatisfactory design.
15.       While the first project was limited in scope, it sought to
induce private bank participation in the sector and, almost on a
pilot basis, tried to introduce specific new techniques through on-
farm investment. The fourth project came much closer to being a
sector loan in substance. However, although not fully recognized
in the first project, by the fourth project some Bank staff knew that
Mexico 1) simply did not have adequate agricultural technology, 2) sector
policy deficiencies were crucial to arresting the deteriorating food
supply situation, 3) it was not longer sufficient to limit the Bank's
focus to FIRA, but rather the agricultural credit system as a whole
had to be analyzed, and 4) Bank staff were simply unable to provide
proper supervision to the increasingly large and complex agricultural
credit program.
16.       Nonetheless, the Bank persisted in applying the same project
design again during the fourth loan. The principal problems
resulting are evident in the appraisal report design. The emphasis
was placed on the elaboration of individual on-farm investment models
instead of on limiting sector policies and deficiencies. As for those
projects which preceeded it, the fourth appraisal report contained a
set of models presented in the annexes. These models purported to
indicate the impact of representative investment packages which would
be carried out under the projec.t. The models indicated, in shorthand
form, the technology which was to be applied and provided a standard
against which actual project results were to be compared. In their
aggregate, they also provided an expected project economic rate of
return upon which Board approval of the project was partly based.
17.        Given the diversity of Mexico's agricultural conditions,
and the volume of FIRA's lending, a large number of separate models
were required to cover the range of investment activities which were
to be financed. The staff effort to develop all of these models
was enormous. Moreover, and this was a much more fundamental problem,
the technologies represented in many of the models were of questionable
existence or were at least uneconomic under the conditions then
prevailing in Mexico.
18.        In appraising the fourth project, some Bank staff wished to
avoid the preparation of the detailed farm investment models which
they felt were largely artificial. The models required much effort,
there was little evidence that such models actually reflected the
investments which were being made, and Bank staff could, in the absence



- 6 -
of having to prepare the models, work on more fundamental problems.
However, the staff was told that the models formed an essential
part of the appraisal process and were required for Board presentation.
The models were therefore constructed again, although in somewhat
abbreviated form.
19.       The Bank has moved to increasingly utilize quantitative
techniques in its work. This is important. However, it is clear that
normal operational pressures on Bank staff can induce staff to follow
the path of least resistance even if, as in this case, the normal
procedures do not appear to have been the most appropriate.
20.       The design of the appraisal report implied that Mexico had
a set of viable technologies for agriculture and livestock which,
when applied through on-farm investments under then current sector
conditions (prices, farm management, technical assistance) provided
very high financial and economic returns. The economic rate of return
on the GSP and the LIPSP were estimated in the appraisal report at 26
and 41 percent, respectively.    Thus, although project staff felt that
the models were not representative of actual investment opportunities,
they risked convincing other staff within the Bank, and the Government,
to the contrary.
21.        It is important to note that the appraisal missions for both
the third and fourth projects (in 1970 and 1972) had tried to convince
the appropriate officials of the Government to focus more on the need
to develop technology appropriate to its d.iverse agriculture. The
missions indicated that the lack of appropriate improved technology
to recommend to sub-borrowers was limiting the effectiveness of the
Bank-supported credit projects. Both missions returned feeling that,
despite clear evidence from FIRA's experience that there was a need
for well directed applied research, especially in livestock and rainfed
agricultuy1, that virtually nothing was being done to improve the
situation- . The missions indicated that the Bank might be prepared
to help organize and finance such an effort. Nonetheless, neither in
the Government, nor at other levels within the Bank, does there seem
to have been a consciousness of the severity of the problem. Only
after the crop shortfalls, and large imports of basic grains required
in 1972-733, did the Government begin to re-examine its agricultural
policy. The Bank did the same.
1/  FIRA did move to fill this gap, to the extent possible.     It
increased its budgetary and staff committment to applied and
demonstration programs.   Although not established as a research
agency, it has achieved some very impressive results which are
now recognized internationally. These results have been most
significant in the area of low-cost livestock production systems,
for both cattle and dairy units. Efforts by Bank staff to
encourage and assist FIRA's work in this direction have been
especially important.



- 7 -
22.        It is clear, with hindsight, that a large number of other
factors were also hindering growth in agriculture. Among the most
important were low agricultural product prices, a shortage of technical
assistance, neglect of small farmers, inadequate water pricing and water
use efficiency on irrigation projects, inappropriate land reform
legislation, and a need for rural infrastructure. Additional funds for
the sector were needed, but for this credit to have been fully effective
a set of policy changes was advisable. Accordingly, the fourth loan
should have been treated more as a sector loan because of both its size
and complexity, and also the importance of sector as opposed to project
issues. Less emphasis was due to the elaboration of individual investment
models and more to the design of the macro-system which was the principal
determinant of whether the sector was to develop.
23.        The need for sharply different agricultural policies has now
been recognized and, in harmony with Government efforts, the Bank has
moved to assist in this direction. A number of recent Bank reports
on Mexican agriculture are impressive in this regard. However, the
project design has so far been continued for both the fifth and sixth
agriculture and livestock credit projects. Two alternatives would seem to
offer potential improvement. In one, funds would be provided to FIRA for
sector lending with only broad guidelines as to the expected activities
and technologies to be financed. The Bank's efforts would be placed on
institutional and sectoral policy improvement such as (i) the identification
of research and extension priorities, (ii) the monitoring of investment
impact on important variables like financial and economic rate of return,
income distribution, employment, and (iii) important barriers to efficient
investment like price distortions, and the need for improved land and water
policies.
24.        In the other, although not necessarily mutually exclusive, the
Bank's lending program would be disaggregated into smaller projects, which
would be appraised by type of activity and perhaps for different regions.
Lending would be used to achieve more limited and more specific goals, like
the introduction of individual technologies, the provision of credit to
individuals under special conditions (small farmers), rural development, and
the like. As the funds which Mexico will need from the Bank are likely to be
smaller, relative to domestic resources, in the future, the latter approach
would permit Bank staff to work cooperatively with Mexican officials and
technicians more closely on specific development issues.
B.         Interest and Rediscounting Rates
25.       As in previous projects, subloans were provided at graduated
interest rates. Within the GSP subcomponent, larger loans bore higher
interest rates, ranging from 10 to 12 percent, on the supposition that
they Would be received by larger and wealthier farmers. The selection



- 8 -
of one rate, for sub-borrowers within the GSP instead of the set of
graduated rates by loan size, would probably have reduced administrative
costs without significantly affecting sector equity or allocational
efficiency. Within the LIPSP subcomponent, all subloans were made
at 7.6 percent. The lower rate for this subcomponent was proposed by the
Government as part of a general policy of reduced interest rates to small
farmers. The Government argued that (i) the loan beneficiaries were
"very poor" and merited the implied income transfers and (ii) potential
loan recipients controlled valuable land and labor resources which could
be brought into production only by offering low interest rates.
26.       A substantial discussion took place within the Bank during loan
preparation regarding the acceptability of the low rate proposed for
LIPSP sub-borrowers. On the one side, it was argued that a higher rate,
such as 10 percent, was preferable on both equity and efficiency grounds.
The data available indicated that rural incomes in Mexico were skewed,
with about 40 percent of the rural poor having (in 1969) per capita
incomes lower than US$86. The definition of a small farmer, which
FIRA then intended to use for those who would qualify for LIPSP subloans,
was a net family income of less than US$2,000. This was about US$360
per capita, or four times as large as that earned by the lower 40
percent. Under the higher limit, 90 percent of the rural population
qualified for LIPSP loans. Because the poorest of the rural population
were mostly landless, and unlikely to be good prospects for credit, Bank
staff expected that most LIPSP funds would go to borrowers having rela-
tively high incomes by rural standards. Accordingly, subsidiza Ron on
account of poverty as defined in the case appeared inappropriate-
27.        It was also pointed out that there was great demand for credit
among small farmers, that considerable amounts were currently being
borrowed from money lenders at very high interest rates, and that
substantially more credit would be sought by small farmers at 7.6 percent
than the project could supply. Low interest rates were not needed to
induce investment among small farmers. Instead, it was argued that
higher interest rates would result in improved allocation within the limits
of the credit which could be made available.
28.       On the other side, it was argued that the Government was simply
not willing to negotiate the interest rate for small farmers. A general
policy announcement on this issue had just been made. Bank staff believed
that the Government would prefer to forego Bank assistance for the LIPSP
subcomponent (which had been designed independently by the Government
1/ The Region states that the project definition was not designed
to serve the absolute poorest of the rural population. However,
it did reach poor farmers.



- 9 -
previous to its inclusion in the fourth project), rather than reverse its
policy. Because of the importance of the project, it was argued that the
Bank should not delay by entering into discussions, but rather proceed
with the loan, evaluate the consequences, and subsequently return to
the issue if it then seemed merited.
29.       The issue within the Bank was not one of fact regarding the
appropriateness of the low interest rate for the LIPSP subcomponent, but
of strategy regarding what the Bank could accomplish. Some staff believed
that the issue was so important that it should be pressed on the Government,
while others were content to let it pass while concentrating on other
problems. Prior to negotiations it was agreed, however, that the strong
economic arguments against the use of low interest rates to LIPSP would
be given to the Government. The Bank's argument would emphasize the limited
resources then available for agricultural investment in Mexico, both in
terms of credit and of research1 nd technical assistance, and the imperative
need to do something about this- . However, if after a strong argument
had been made to the Government, and pressed to a high level, the Government
refused to change its position, the Bank was prepared to accept 7.6 percent.
30.       During negotiations the issue of interest rates was raised
perfunctorily, but was not strongly pushed to the Government. The Bank
accepted the low interest rate for LIPSP borrowers without making a strong
case. This was a different position than the Bank had initially agreed
before or than it had assumed in negotiating agricultural or livestock
credit projects with most other countries in the region. Particularly
where inflation had been a serious problem, the Bank had worked strenuously
for higher interest rates to sub-borrowers. Thus, an opportunity was
passed for substantial discussion with the Government regarding the
advantages and disadvantages of interest rate subsidies for achieving
the goals which the Government had established and other related factors
important to agricultural sector development were not raised. It is
unlikely that higher interest rates for low income borrowers could have
been obtained at the time, but the issue could have been discussed in
considerably greater degree in the hope of influencing future policy
actions.
31.       As it turned out, the low interst rates charged to LIPSP sub-
borrowers resulted in less actual lending to this subcomponent and to
1/ As is mentioned in the discussion of the design of appraisal report
models, projects staff felt that there was very little new technology
available in Mexico that would be used either to increase agricultural
production, particularly in rainfed areas, or to increase livestock
and dairy production.



- 10 -
provision of less technical assistance than would otherwise have occurred.
Thus, a policy which the Government hoped would benefit the rural poor
worked to their disadvantage. The reasons for these developments are
related closely to the high cost of making loans to this component, and
to the relatively high level of inflation prevailing in Mexico during the
project.
32.        In 1972, during appraisal of the fourth project, inflation in
Mexico was about 5 percent. Inflation began to increase significantly
at the beginning of 1973, reflecting the lagged effect of large increases
in public sector demand and in the money supply which had taken place in
1972. Thus, during negotiations, April/May 1973, inflation was rising
rapidly and the interest rates being charged to LIPSP sub-borrowers turned
negative in real terms. Following 1973, domestic inflation was exacerbated
by international inflation. It averaged 21 percent between 1974-77.
33.       As pointed out in the PCR (para. 3.13) two interest rate
adjustments were requested by FIRA during the period of loan implementation.
In May 1974, a supervision mission discussed with FIRA the fact that the
latter was operating at a financial deficit on the amounts discounted for
LIPSP loans. FIRA discounted participating bank's loans at 4.6 percent while
borrowing part of the required funds from the Bank at 7.25 percent, with
the balance from its own funds or from the Bank of Mexico at an average rate of
about 4.6 percent. This deficit, of course, was inherent in the original
design of the project. However, rising technical and administrative costs
associated with promotion, organization, technical appraisal and supervision
of the LIPSP loans were adding to FIRA's deficit. Government subsidies to
cover the technical assistance costs to low income farmers had been agreed
during appraisal and incorporated into the Loan Agreement (Guarantee
Agreement, Section 2.03 and Loan Agreement, Schedule 2.D), but were proving
inadequate. FIRA indicated that it did not wish to request a higher
Government contribution to cover the higher administrative costs and
resulting deficits. It feared that this transfer payment would grow
rapidly (the more successful LIPSP became, the greater would become
FIRA's deficit), and the Government would then either become unwilling
to further underwrite the program or would wish to interfere more
directly with FIRA operations. FIRA's concern for its operating
independence was a major consideration.
34.       FIRA and the Bank agreed subsequently that the only adequate
solution was to try to obtain Government agreement to a general increase
in interest rates to farmers of all categories, and of the corresponding
discount rates to increase FIRA's margins. In December 1974, despite
growing awareness of the need to raise interest rates, the Government
decided that it did not wish to raise them for small farmers. FIRA
was permitted to raise rates on loans within the GSP program. FIRA
also informed the Bank at this time that it had abandoned its earlier
intention to seek a reallocation of project funds from GSP to LIPSP
because the financial strain imposed by the LIPSP program.



- 11 -
35.        In August 1975, FIRA again requested an increase in on-lending
rates, this time to improve the operating margins of participating banks.
The Bank again agreed. The Government refused again to allow rates
to be increased by the LIPSP, but rates within the GSP were further
increasedl/ .
36.        Although lending for the LIPSP subcomponent had originally
occurred more rapidly than predicted at appraisal, and although FIRA
had considered reallocating funds from the GSP to the LIPSP component,
the final allocation, with Bank approval, was reversed in the opposite
direction. Only 13 percent of funds in the fourth project were disbursed
to small farmers, as opposed to the 19 percent allocated at appraisal.
37.        FIRA made a determined effort to lend to small farmers.
By early 1974 it had transferred 27 percent of its technical staff to
work full time on the LIPSP subcomponent and made available most of
the remaining staff to assist on a part-time basis. Nonetheless, FIRA
was also concerned with its financial position. Once the institutional
cost of lending to small farmers became too great, FIRA reduced this
lending.
38.        The low interest rate also resulted in less technical
assistance being made available to borrowers. The Bank noted in its
review of the fourth project (PCR mission, April 1977) that, although
Loan 910-ME had been disbursed 12 months ahead of schedule, there had
been a lowering of technical standards (relative to past projects) in
order to expedite lending operations. Bank staff felt this was
particularly serious in the case of loans made for beef development
where investments in breeding stock, as opposed to infrastructure
and pasture improvements, had risen disproportionately.
39.        At least part of the reason for the decline in technical
assistance provided is that FIRA was still being squeezed financially
as a result of higher costs associated with the LIPSP program, and of
inflation. It tried to compensate for higher costs by increasing
its lending volume, although potentially reducing the productivity
of the loans being made. In short, the lending program was harmed,
not helped, by the fact that interest rates were fixed at low real
levels, and poorer farmers, who needed additional funds and additional
technical assistance, were hurt the most. The Bank did not pursue the
case as strenuously as the evidence indicates was merited.
C.        Monitoring and Evaluation
40.        Starting with the second project, FIRA was required to
measure the impact of product investments on selected farms and
agro-industries. The Bank requested information on the financial
1/ Interest rates were held at 7.6 percent for LIPSP sub-borrowers
during the fifth project as well (Loan 1217-ME, effective August 1976),
and interest rates to GSP borrowers were increased only marginally.



- 12 -
and economic rates of return on different investments, and on the various
factors affecting profitability, both of which might permit improved
project planning and implementation in the future.
41.       FIRA agreed, reluctantly, to undertake the requested evaluation.
The analysis carried out during the second project fell short, however,
of what the Bank desired, and the Bank pressed for an improved effort
during the third project. Funds were made available in the third loan
for a consultant who could assist FIRA in the design of a monitoring and
evaluation system, as it was recognized that FIRA had no experience in
the task that was being requested. The Bank also had no staff which it
could make available on a continuing basis to assist in the evaluation.
42.        During the third and fourth projects, FIRA conducted a detailed
survey of a sample of farms/ranches which had received project subloans.
A pilot system of permanent record-keeping on a sample of commercial
farms was also initiated. The consultant assisted in both of these efforts.
OED also sampled a set of farmslyhich had made investments in the second
project, and analyzed this data- . The information on project impact
which these various efforts produce9 were discussed in some detail in the
OED evaluation of the third project- . In essence, subloan investments
were found to have had a positive effect on farm production, but, although
producing a satisfactory economic rate of return, profitability was
significantly below that which had been predicted in the third appraisal
report. Investments permitted an increase in production principally at
the extensive margin, rather than at the intensive margin. New lands were
brought into cultivation, or into livestock production, but crop yields
were not significantly increased, nor were livestock technical coefficients
on existing herds markedly improved. Within the sectoral context then
prevailing, the path of development which occurred was probably the most
economical.
43.        The PCR provides a good description of progress made in monitor-
ing and evaluating investments made during the fourth project. FIRA's
efforts in this period were focused almost exclusively on sub-borrowers
within the LIPSP program, and a record-keeping system for a sample of
these farms was initiated. Of the two reports issued to date, one is
especially useful. It contains an analysis of a sample of nearly 400
individual smallholders and ejido enterprises, and indicates candidly
the significant degree to which operational difficulties affect these
enterprises. The most important problems are identified, at least
qualitatively. The information obtained in the effort will likely
permit an even more productive flow of credit to this set of sub-borrowers
in the future.
1/ Used in "Evaluation of Agricultural Credit Programs." OED Report No.
1357 dated November 12, 1976.
2/ OED Report No. 1573, dated April 27, 1977.



- 13 -
44.        It is important, however, that no additional monitoring and
evaluation has been done of investments carried out within the GSP
subcomponent. This subcomponent contains the bulk of the funds disbursed
in the successive projects to date, and most new funds are also going to
this group. Despite previous evaluation efforts, a great deal of additional
information is needed on the functioning and impact of investments financed
within this subcomponent. There has been inadequate effort to draw policy
implications from the evidence obtained, so that the feedback desired has
not been fully achieved. Further, while the LIPSP subloans have been
made more recently, and have not fully matured, there are many GSP sub-
borrowers who received their first loans over ten years ago, and who have,
in some cases, received repeater loans. Thus, subloan impact can now be
measured more completely.
45.        FIRA's recent emphasis on LIPSP sub-borrowers is explained
largely in terms of how it perceives the costs and benefits of monitoring
and evaluation to itself. The cost of the monitoring and evaluation
program is significant. The special unit established to undertake this
task commenced operation with a total of 32 technicians, 7 percent of
FIRA's total technical staff. They were assigned to work full time on
the project, and other staff assisted part time. Given that this
evaluation staff has worked solely on small farmer loans during the
fourth loan, and that the total FIRA staff assigned to the LIPSP sub-
component totalled 130 technicians, the monitoring staff amounted to
fully 20 percent of the staff assigned to the LIPSP program.
46.        Monitoring and evaluation is important, but its costs,
particularly to the on-lending agency which bears these can be quite
large. The Bank has perhaps not given full consideration to this
issue. For example, FIRA's original reluctance to undertake a major
evaluation effort was made quite clear to the Bank. FIRA did not
believe that the benefits which would accrue to it, as an institution,
would justify the costs which it would have to bear. FIRA believed
that the results, when obtained, would be valuable principally to
the Bank, and thus that the Bank should pay.
47.        Part of the problem is that the Bank did not explain to
FIRA in sufficient detail the precise information which could and
should be obtained in the monitoring effort, and how this information
would be of use in planning future activities, and improving subloan
appraisal and supervision. The Bank perhaps did not fully recognize
the magnitude of the task which it was proposing. The concept of
monitoring and evaluation was relatively new in Bank agricultural
projects when FIRA was first approached. However, even after FIRA
understood what was wanted, it remained reluctant to spend large amounts



- 14 -
on an evaluation of the FSP subcomponent. It agreed to do this only
when the Bank made it a condition of the third loan. FIRA became more
positive towards evaluation only after it switched its emphasis to the
smaller farmers in the LIPSP program.
48.        FIRA's institutional position is an important reason for
explaining its perspective on monitoring and evaluation. FIRA, as a
banking agency depends on the Bank of Mexico, and yet enjoys considerable
autonomy and separate prestige. It is a non-profit institution whose
income from its portfolio is expected to only cover its current expenses.
Nonetheless, FIRA believes that a small operating surplus is important
to the continuation of its autonomy. A deficit, such as that which might
be caused by a large expenditure on monitoring and evaluation, would
require FIRA to request a subsidy from outside sources. Although it has
accepted some funds to finance the additional costs of technical assistance
provided to small farmer sub-borrowers, as have also been made available to
the private and public banks operating in the agricultural sector, FIRA
was unwilling to see this subsidy grow too large. Rather than risk political
interference in its operations, it chose to limit the growth of the LIPSP
subcomponent during the fourth loan. For similar reasons, it earlier
resisted the major additional expenses which it believed the monitoring
and evaluation of subloans to commercial producers would involve.
49.        FIRA also did not perceive large benefits from such an evaluation.
Its commercial portfolio was sound. Nearly all loans within the GSP sub-
component appeared good and the collateral pledged against the loans was
generally adequate. Further, as FIRA is a rediscounting agency, the
participating banks stood to bear any losses, with FIRA suffering only
if these banks themselves defaulted. Loan productivity might have been
improved through evaluation, but FIRA perceived that an increased volume
of lending was probably more important to it so long as at least satis-
factory productivity was obtained on the loans which were being made.
50.       The situation was different, however, with respect to the
LIPSP subcomponent. First, the small farmer portfolio was a genuinely
new activity, perceived as more risky, and certainly more costly. The
efforts involved in organization of farmers, loan appraisal, and technical
assistance were much more extensive than those directed to commercial
producers. A large political emphasis in Mexico has been placed in recent
years on increasing lending to small farmers, and FIRA knew that the
Bank might direct an increasing proportion of its future project support
in this direction. For all these reasons, FIRA felt it important to
learn as much as possible 9 out this group, and the factors most
important in lending to it- .
1/ The actual risk from LIPSP subcomponent is still extremely small.
It composed only 13 percent of the fourth project and small farmer
subloans comprise only about 7 percent of all the Bank-assisted
subloans made since the first project began.



- 15 -
51.        Second, the monitoring and evaluation of small farmers qualifies
for subsidies established to reimburse the expenses associated with technical
assistance provided to small farmers. Thus, FIRA could obtain support for its
monitoring and evaluation efforts to this end, which it could not have done
for similar efforts aimed at larger commercial producers.
52.        The lesson is simple.   The Bank must be increasingly sensitive to
the high cost of monitoring and evaluation. It must also respect the
institutional interests of the agencies through which it lends when monitoring
and evaluation systems are desired. It may be appropriate to include funds
within Bank loans to pay a larger part of any evaluation costs, thereby making
the direct cost to the agency itself less onerous.
53.        In the case of the Mexican agricultural and livestock credit program,
however, additional evaluation of the GSP component is still desirable. In
this effort, focus should be placed on subloans made for the purchase of beef
cattle breeding stock. This is substantially the largest subloan item. The
evaluations carried out indicate that beef cattle subloans have had little
impact on herd technical coefficients, and a relatively low economic rate of
return. The rate probably does not exceed 12 percent. This is only barely
adequate and higher benefits might be achieved if funds which are now destined
to livestock could be redirected to other more profitable investments. This
is being attempted in the sixth loan in which a lower ceiling has been placed
on the proportion of loan volume allocated for livestock and, within livestock,
for breeding stock.
54.        It is important that potential loan substitution is also highest
for this subloan category. Loan funds placed in breeding animals are highly
liquid and, once obtained, are extremely difficult to control. Ranchers may
hold the new animals purchased, selling other animals previously owned on the
pretext of financial need, and thus gain net funds at low interest rates for
alternative investments. FIRA has done a good job of administering livestock
loans, but even its controls are inadequate to deal with this problem. Now
that real interest rates on subloans have been negative for six years in a
row, the market mechanism can no longer be depended upon as a guarantor that
the funds lent will be allocated efficiently.
55.        It must be recognized, however, that the subloans for livestock
development, including the purchase of breeding animals, are very important
to FIRA's institutional viability under current conditions. Without the
volume of lending which this activity generates, at relatively low staff
cost in terms of appraisal and supervision, it is unlikely that FIRA would
be able to provide intensive staff assistance to other agricultural sub-
sectors in its lending program. Thus, a re-examination of FIRA's discount
margins on subloans may be required to ensure that it is reimbursed
appropriately to the cost which its bears on each type of loan.



Annex 1
NACIONAL FINANCIERA S.A.               - 16 -
Office of the General Manager                                              TRANSLATION
Official Financing                    June 7, 1979
Mr. Shiv S. Kapur,
Director,
Operations Evaluation Department
International Bank for Reconstruction
and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433, USSA
Dear Mr. Kapur,
I wish to refer to your letter dated May 3, 1979 requesting our
opinion on the draft project performance audit report on the Fourth Livestock
Development Program (Loan 910-ME) prepared by your Department.
I would like to inform you that after having analyzed the document
we agree in general terms with the Bank's opinion, in the sense that the
stated project objectives were achieved with success. I consider it appro-
priate, however, to emphasize some points of view presented in the report,
which deserve special consideration.
1. In a strict sense, FIRA's interest rates policy is oriented
towards guaranteeing thatthey permit the effective promotion of agricultural
and livestock development; however, the rates are established so as to eli-
minate the possibility of reducing the Fund's resources. The modifications
and adjustments in the interest rates for the various credits granted under
Loans 910-MR, 1217-ME and 1569-ME respond to such objective.
2. Regarding technical assistance, the Fund has tended to operate
as a second tier bank, based on a large participation of the private banking
sector in providing these services, which relatively diminishes the cost to
the Fund on such account. This situation does not preclude, however, studying
the establishment of a specific program of technical assistance of a larger
scope.
3. Finally, I would like to emphasize the desirability of a more
active and direct participation in future evaluation reports on the part of
the technicians of the executing organization as well as of the Nacional
Financiera S.A. This would allow the Bank a larger, direct experience which
would serve as a basis for reorienting its evaluation policies from the point
of view of the fulfillment of the stated project objectives.
Hoping that our comments will be useful, I remain,
Sincerely yours,
Pedro Galicia
General Manager



- 17-
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO FOURTH LIVESTOCK AND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (LOAN 910-ME)
I.   Background
1.01      Since 1965, the World Bank 1/ has made a series of six loans
totalling US$600 million equivalent to Mexico in support of an agricultural
credit program providing medium and long term funds for livestock, agricul-
tural and agro-industrial development. All six loans have been channeled
through the Fideicomisos Instituidos en el Banco de Mexico en Relacion con
la Agricultura (FIRA), an administrative body providing com mn management
for a group of three trust funds within the Bank of Mexico (BANXICO), which
jointly promote the flow of credit to the agricultural sector. The Fondo
de Garantia y Fomento para la Agricultura, Ganaderia y Avicultura (FONDO)
was the first trust fund established in 1955, to provide a combination of
credit and technical assistance to the public and private banks and commer-
cial producers. The Fondo Especial para Financiamientos Agropecuarios (FEFA)
was created in 1965 specifically as a channel for loan funds from the IBRD
and IDB. The Fondo Especial de Asistencia Tecnica y Garantia para Creditos
Agropecuarios (FEGA) was set up in 1975 to defray the technical assistance
costs associated with the financing of ejidatarios and other low-income
producers and to guarantee, in substantial part, the recovery of past due
principal balances of such loans granted by private credit institutions.
1.02      Due to the rapid implementation of the Third Livestock and Agricul-
tural Development Project (Loan 747-ME), the Mexican government contacted
the Bank in August 1972 to initiate the development of a fourth loan to
support the on-going investment program under FIRA, and to include for the
first time a component for low income producers. After discussions with
FIRA personnel in Washington in September 1972, the appraisal of the Fourth
Project 2/ took place in October 1972, followed by negotiations in mid-May
1973. The definition of an innovative component to reach low-income
producers was accompanied by discussion centered on interest rate policy
towards this group. The Bank agreed that the project should conform to the
government's sectoral interest rate policy in Mexico, which set 7.6% as
the interest rate for low-income producers throughout Mexico.
II. Proiect Description
2.01      The Fourth Project was designed as a continuation of the program,
financed under the first three livestock and agricultural development
projects (Loans 430-ME, 610-ME, and 747-ME) to provide financing and
technical services to the agricultural sector. This program was created to
provide medium and long term funds to agricultural producers and processors,
and simultaneously to widen the role of the private and official bankinxg
system in technically assisted lending for on-farm development. In addi-
tion, the Fourth project reflected closely the policy priorities defined
by the Mexican government for the agricultural sector: (i) a rapid increase
1/   Referred to as the Bank throughout the report.
2/   Refers to the Fourth Livestock and Agricultural Project (Loan 910-ME)
throughout the report.



- 18 -
in the production of foodstuffs both for domestic and international markets
and (ii) an improvement in the distribution of income.
2.02      The project consisted of two main subcomponents:
(a)  The General Sub-Project (GSP) which was designed to continue
the investment program developed under the first three Bank-
financed projects. Livestock, crop production and agro-
industrial investments, judged feasible and sound by FIRA
technicians were eligible for financing under the GSP on a
country wide basis. Participating credit intitutions extended
loans to producers and received refinancing from FIRA; and
(b)  the Low Income Producers Sub-Project (LIPSP) which initiated
a new program aimed to assist ejidatarios and other small
farmers through the provision of medium and long term credit
and extensive technical assistance for on-farm development.
A small agro-industrial sub-component was also included.
In addition, the project provided for studies, training and demontration
aimed at: (i) providing technical services to farmers particularly ejidatarios
and other low-income producers; (ii) production-oriented studies and demonstra-
tions; and (iii) technical training for FIRA and participating banks' staff
and for project farmers. The project was declared effective on October 24,
1973 after a delay of several months needed in the finalization of legal
agreements and documents specifying the rate of commission which NAFINSA
would charge FIRA, during project implementation.
III. Proiect Implementation
Institutional Development
3.01      The Fourth project was implemented by FIRA, the administrative
organization within the Bank of Mexico (BANXICO) responsible for the admin-
istration of three trust funds for agricultural development (para 1.01).
FIRA acts as both a technical assistance agency as well as the rediscounting
arm of BANXICO. All project sub-loans were made on the basis of development
plans evaluated by FIRA technicians. FIRA staff also provided on-farm
supervision and training, as well as developed specialized demonstration
units.
3.02      FIRA's performance as implementing agency for the first three Bank-
financed livestock and agricultural development projects has been good. Under
the Fourth project, FIRA continued to build upon its growing project experi-
ence, and performed as an able and efficient institution. FIRA was able to
successfully undertake the implementation of the new LIPSP sub-component.
The rapid rate of fund commitment under the LIPSP was in part the result of
FIRA promotion of the project among small farmers and ejidatarios six months
before project effectiveness. FIRA also transferred some 130 technical
staff to work full time on the LIPSP and made additional staff available
on a part-time basis to assist in the promotion, organization and technical



- 19 -
assistance of small-holders and ejidos. These measures were complemented
by the training of staff in the Banco Nacional de Credito Agricola (BA)
and the Banco Nacional de Credito Ejidal (BE) who were involved in
LIPSP implementation, through courses organized by FIRA at the Chapingo
Agricultural School, and through direct training in the field. However,
despite these efforts, FIRA was faced with higher manpower per loan require-
ments for the evaluation and supervision of LIPSP operations particularly for
individual smallholders although less so for Ejido groups.
Training
3.03      FIRA continued to strengthen the technical capability of its staff
through training programs abroad. In addition FIRA moved to strengthen its
agro-industrial technical staff, a department which had been judged weak at
appraisal. The project agreement required, as a condition of effectiveness,
that FIRA employ an agro-industrial specialist to evaluate projects and to
provide staff training. FIRA met this condition without delay and also
further strengthened its agro-industrial technical staff by recruiting
five new staff members who were chiefly assigned to field offices and by
sending two project technicians abroad for specialized training. In order
to process the expanding program, as well as to continue the decentralization
of operations, FIRA expanded its total number of rural offices from 99 to
122 and increased the total number of its technical staff. FIRA efforts
to provide low-income producers with adequate technical back-stopping also
were substantial. However, the increased proportion of sub-borrowers in
the low-income category, increased FIRA costs as low-income producers required
more technical assistance per sub-loan than commercial borrowers (para. 3.13).
Monitoring
3.04      One weakness in FIRA's performance was the failure to fully imple-
ment the monitoring activities required under the project agreement (Section
2.07(b), which were designed to measure the on-farm and agro-industrial impact
of project investments. Initially, FIRA was slow to establish a permanent
continuous record keeping system and had not fully complied with provision
2.07(b) of the project agreement when the loan was fully disbursed in October
1975. However, FIRA was taking steps towards fulfilling its commitment in
the latter part of 1975. A small group of FIRA technicians were selected
to initiate the monitoring program, and a consultant engaged to assist this
core of technicians in establishing a data recovery system, drawing up the
necessary forms, and advising on the selection of sample farmers. The project's
closing date was extended to cover establishment of the unit.
3.05      The unit commenced operation in January 1976, with a field staff
of 25 technicians in addition to 7 headquarters' staff technicians. Initially
it was decided to concentrate on the low-income producers sub-sector (LIPSP).
The decision to concentrate the initial monitoring efforts on the LIPSP was
based on the judgement that the low-income producer component was a more
problem prone and risky operation, and thus could most benefit from the
feedback which early monitoring would provide. At the same time, this
decision greatly increased the difficulty of establishing the system, as
low-income farmers are the least likely to keep on-farm records. Initial



- 20 -
monitoring activities centered on a stratified random sample of 276 indi-
vidual small farmers (Pequenos Propietarios) and 117 collectives (ejidos),
willing to participating in the program. These represented 12% and 17.5%
respectively of the two LIPSP groups financed (during the 12 months July 1,
1974 to June 30, 1975), under IDB loan 298SF/ME and IBRD Loan 910-ME.
3.06      The initial system comprised keeping records on a continuing basis
of the sample farms over the development period of the sub-loan and is based
on (i) a daily diary kept by the borrower; (ii) frequent farm visits by the
technician (every 2 to 4 weeks); (iii) three monthly and annual progress
report to headquarters by each field technician; and (iv) coordination of
the field activities and processing and interpretation of the data by the
headquarters staff. Field Officers were located country-wide in 18 FIRA
offices selected on the basis of those having the highest concentration of
LIPSP. The unit was officially designated "Sistema de Registros Continuos y
Asistencia Tecnica Empresarial" and was located within FIRA's
Producer Organization and Cooperative Development.
3.07       Considering the lack of previous experience in on-farm evaluation
by almost all the technicians appointed to the program 3/, the unit has
functioned surprisingly smoothly and has made considerable progress in
its operations. The units' staff are young and qualified and the field
technicians have been quick to develop a rapport with the pequeno pro-
pietarios and ejidatarios. In-service training of field technicians has
been carried out on an informal basis during the course of visits by
headquarters staff to the field offices. This is to be strengthened by
the appointment of two field coordinating officers to the headquarters
staff with specific responsibility for supervision of field staff activities.
On a formal basis, in-service training was given through a one-week seminar
held by the unit to discuss progress to date in September 1976 and attended
by all its technicians. The future program calls for the expansion of
the sample to concentrate in key regions of FIRA operations and main produc-
tive activities.
3.08      One additional bottleneck in the unit's work has been in the
programming of data and subsequent processing by FIRA's computer unit.
The monitoring unit's demands are but one of many within FIRA and the
computer is fully extended. FIRA has taken steps to correct this,
however, and future data processing should be accomplished in a timely
manner. Two studies were completed in June and August 1977 based on data
and information obtained from the sample farms as follows: (i) changes
in net worth and (ii) a subjective evaluation of the key technical and
managerial aspects on on-farm performance (para. 4.09).
3.09      Thus, the establishment of a monitoring unit within FIRA proceeded
more slowly than anticipated at appraisal. Although FIRA initially did
not share the Bank's emphasis on the establishment of a continuous monitoring
3/   However, most technicians had previous operational field experience
within FIRA.



- 21 -
unit, commitment to the unit grew over the life of the project. Clearly,
FIRA staff and resources were constrained by the heavy commitment necessary
to implement on-going lending programs, particularly with the added staff
requirements created by the growth of low-income sub-projects in FIRA's
portfolio. In addition, the establishment of a comprehensive computerized
monitoring unit required more time and effort than envisaged at appraisal.
The Bank's insistance on the establishment of such a unit was sound, but
more technical backstopping could have been provided FIRA at an earlier
stage during project implementation in order to assure the success of the
system. FIRA's program is both large and complex, comprising a large number
of sub-loans of many different types. Therefore, the establishment of a
monitoring unit requires the testing and evolution of both techniques
and institutional experience. In addition, due to the relatively long
period required for the maturity of on-farm investments, little meaningful
data can be generated immediately upon sub-project financing. Several years
of lead time result in more useful time-series data, more accurately
reflecting longer term project impact.
Research and Demonstration
3.10      FIRA made considerable progress in improving its research and
demonstration facilities under the project. FIRA demonstration farms for
perennial and annual crops were improved and operated smoothly. In addi-
tion, FIRA financed and operated demonstration centers for low-cost milk
production in wet and dry tropical and temperate zones are excellent.
These demonstration farms were particularly innovative in providing
evidence that milk production can be economically and financially feasible
in the wet and dry tropical and temperate zones, by developing systems
maximizing the use of improved grass and legume pastures thereby reducing
the use of expensive concentrate feeds. Using the full FIRA technology
package, milk production is feasible in any region in Mexico with reductions
of about one-third of the traditional cost.
On-lending Operations
Participating Institutions
3.11      As under the first three Bank-financed projects, FIRA acted as the
rediscounting facility for sub-loans granted by participating private and
official credit institutions. At appraisal, it was forecast that GSP
component funds would be channeled through private credit institutions
and the Banks of the Banco Nacional Agropecuario (BANAGRO) system. LIPSP
funds would be channeled through private and BANAGRO Banks, and in addition
through the Banco Nacional de Credito Ejidal (BE) and Banco Nacional de
Credito Agricola (BA) systems. During the project lifetime, two modifica-
tions in the appraisal on-lending arrangements were made. First, in
August 1974, the Borrower requested that the Financiera Nacional Azucarera
(FINASA), a Government owned financiera with the sole and exclusive
responsibility for meeting all the credit needs of cane farming and sugar
production, be made eligible for rediscounting under the project. The
Bank agreed to the amendment of project agreements,      providing a modest



- 22 -
contribution to the Government's planned sugar development program, by
supporting medium- and low-income cane producers term credit needs for the
replanting of cane, new planting of cane, new planting development and
farm equipment. The Bank's agreement to FINASA participation was limited
to US$4.5 million for on-farm cane production and subject to FINASA and
FIRA both establishing separate accounts for project activities. At
project closing only US$1.4 million had been disbursed for cane production
through FINASA. The shortfall in actual disbursements was due to the low
Government fixed prices for cane in an inflationary setting which resulted
in a reduction on the demand for funds for these types of investments.
3.12      The second modification in on-lending arrangements took place
in April 1975. According to Schedule I of the original Project Agreement,
the Banco Nacional de Credito Agricola (BA) was an eligible channel for
sub-loans under the LIPSP component. In November 1974, the BA requested
the modification of the Agreement, granting BA eligibility for GSP funds.
The Bank agreed to the change, as FIRA funds for LIPSP were fully committed
at that time, and it was judged a reasonable mechanism for augmenting BA's
funds thereby allowing the bank to serve additional farmers. Of a total of
Mex$ 2,564 million rediscounted by FIRA under the project, Mex$ 846 million
(33.5%) was channeled through the public banks participating under the
project.  A total of Mex$ 411.6 million     was discounted through the public
banking system to low-income producers; a total of Mex$ 447.1 million     was
rediscounted under the GSP component through the participating public banks.
Interest and Rediscounting Rates
3.13      During the project lifetime two modifications in the interest and
rediscounting rates occurred (Table 1). The first was requested by FIRA
in December 1974, and approved by the Bank effective January 1, 1975. FIRA
requested the first revision in rate structures to cover increased
expenditures on staff salaries and transportation for field staff necessitated
by the increasing proportion of FIRA operations oriented to low-income producers.
The slow start-up of FEGA, designed to cover the technical assistance costs
associated with low-income producers, contributed to FIRA's perception that an
increase in interest rates was justified. Thus, the first revision increased
the rediscount and on-lending rates for project beneficiaries in the GSP
component in order to improve FIRA's overall financial position. A second
revision was requested by FIRA and approved by the Bank in August 1975 and
served to improve the operating margins of participating banks by increasing
the on-lending rates to beneficiaries, without further revision in the
rediscount rates. The Bank's judgment in approving the revision was that:
(i) the investment being financed under the project had adequate financial
rates of return to absorb an increase in interest rates without discouraging
further applications; and (ii) higher interest rates to sub-borrowers
reflected a positive movement towards real rates of interest in the agricul-
tural sector, and were therefore attractive on overall policy grounds.
However, interest rates to LIPSP producers remained unchanged at 7.6% through-
out the life of the project.



MEXICO
COMPLETION REPORT
FOURTH LIVESTOCK AND AGRICULTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LOAN 910-ME
INTEREST AND DISCOUNTING RATES
Rediscount        Rediscount
Rstes to Pwticipating     Rates        Interest Rates to   Interest Ratoe to    Interest Rates to
Sze of Lo-nros             Percantsg$ of Loan    Institutlcns          First           Beneficiaries       bensficiarlor       BEneficiaries 2/
B(Pesos)-jrfe              Discounted         Appraisal           Revision-         Appraisal        First Revisim        Second Revisioir
Up to 150,000                 Up to 90            7.5                 8.75                10.0                11.25               11.5
150,001-250,000               Up to 85            6.0                 9.75               10.5                 12.0                12.25
250,001-500,000               Up to 70            9.0                10.5                 11.5                12.5                13.0
SO0,001-1,000,000             Up to 70            9.0                 11.0                11.5                13.0                13.5
1,000,001-5,000,000           Up to 70           10.0                11.50                12.0                13.0                13.5
5,000,001-10,000,000          Up to 70           10.0                 12.25               12.0                13.5                14.0
10,000,001-15,000,000         Up to 70           10.0                12.75                12.0                13.5                14.5
All LIPSP subloans            Up to 90            4.6                 4.6                  7.6                 7.6                 7.6
1/ As of January, 1975 (proposed in December, 1974).
2/ As of September, 1975.



- 24 -
Total Project Costs and Financing
3.14      Total project costs were Mex$ 3,780 million (US$302.4 million) as
compared with appraisal estimates of Mex$ 3,396 (US$271.7 million). 4/
Table 2
Total Project Costs and Financing
(US$ millions) 1/
GSP                  LIPSP         Studies    Training
Appraisal   Actual    Appraisal   Actual    Appraisal   Actual
Producers               33.4       34.0        2.6       2.8          -           -
Participating Banks     34.3       55.1        5.3       3.7          -           -
FIRA                    65.2       81.1       19.2      14.0        1.7          NA
IBRD                    82.8       89.0       25.0      19.8        2.2         1.2
TOTAL BY COMPONENT     215.7      259.2       52.1      40.3        3.9         2.9
TOTAL PROJECT:
Appraisal           271.7
Actual              302.4
1/   At US$1=Mex$ 12.5
Source: FIRA.
Increased project costs resulted, in part, from high rates of price increases
for key investment items, experienced during the project period.
3.15      Financing of GSP and LIPSP components deviated only slightly from
appraisal projections:
4/   Includes an estimated figure for total costs under Studies, Training
and Demonstrations, which matches appraisal estimates and IBRD disburse-
ments to this category. Thus, the total sum attributable to the category
is Mex$ 36.3 million (US$2.9 million). Data on actual expenditures are
not available as FIRA budgeting for these activities is on an annual
rather than project-by-project basis.



- 25 -
Table 3
Project Financing
(% of Total)
GSP                     LIPSP
Appraisal      Actual     Appraisal     Actual
Producer                  16           13            5            7
Participating Banks       16           21            10           9
FIRA                      30           31            37          36
IBRD                      38           35            48          48
TOTAL               100          100           100         100
The deviations can be analyzed by component; under the GSP, producers contri-
buted slightly less to total project costs and participating banks 5% more
than forecast at appraisal. The Bank loan financed a slightly lesser per-
centage of total project costs, 35%, as compared with 38% forecast at
appraisal. In the three previous loans 5/, one of the Bank's major concerns
had been to encourage participating private banks to rediscount a smaller
proportion of their loans with FIRA and thus make larger contributions to
sub-loan financing. As the OED audit report of the Third Project (Loan 747-ME)
noted, the Bank had utilized the gradual reduction in the proportion of
funds discountable through FIRA as one mechanism for increasing the private
banks contribution to project lending. This mechanism was repeated under the
Fourth Project in which the maximum percent of the loan discountable was
reduced from 80% (Third Loan) to 70% under the Fourth Project, for loans of
between Mex$ 250,000 and Mex$ 500,000 (US$20,000-40,000). The average size of
loans granted under the GSP component was US$25,337; therefore, the decrease
in the percent of loans rediscountable by the private banks for loans of
US$20-40,000, provides a partial explanation for the increase in participating
bank financing of project lending. Under the LIPSP component, producers
financed a slightly higher proportion of project costs (7% as compared with
appraisal estimates of 5%), at the expense of participating banks and FIRA's
contribution.
Procurement
3.16      Under the Third Livestock and Agriculture Development Project
(Loan 747-ME), the Bank had required that FIRA "encourage sub-borrowers to
seek several bids from local suppliers and contractors wherever possible." 6/
5/   Loans 430, 610 and 747-ME.
6/   Schedule 2C to Project Agreement, Loan 747-ME.



- 26 -
In addition, all sub-loans exceeding US$400,000 were referred to the bank
for approval. However, subsequent reviews of agro-industrial investments
made under the Third Project revealed that however small, each sub-loan
generally involved some imported machinery or equipment, and that procure-
ment of this machinery had generally been made on the basis of one quotation.
Therefore, the appraisal mission of the Fourth Project concluded that
more extensive shopping by the sub-borrowers would be beneficial to agro-
industrial investments. The Loan Agreement for the Fourth Project thus
required FIRA to encourage all sub-borrowers to obtain several price quota-
tons, preferably at least three, and for any contract for equipment and
associated services for agro-industries to be financed out of the loan,
and estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, that the sub-
borrower be required to obtain quotations from not less than 5 suppliers
of such equipment produced in not less than three countries. The formula
was adopted to ensure international "shopping" without the formal procedures
of ICB. In addition, to assist FIRA in developing its technical capability
to evaluate quotations, the hiring of an agro-industrial specialist by FIRA
was a condition of effectiveness.
3.17      FIRA did hire the agro-industrial specialist and began to strengthen
its agro-industrial department (para. 3.03). FIRA also agreed with the Bank's
judgement that one of the obstacles for sub-borrowers to obtain several
quotations was the lack of information on a range of manufacturers. To help
solve this problem, FIRA prepared a catalogue listing foreign and local equip-
ment manufacturers, indexed by agro-industry for distribution to all participa-
ting banks. Unfortunately, this assistance was not immediately available at
the beginning of the project period. In addition, FIRA technicians did
relatively little in the promotion of agro-industries in various regions,
instead relying on participating banks to bring clients to them. The partici-
pating banks in turn did not advise prospective borrowers of the need to
obtain several quotations and FIRA intervention was late in the loan cycle,
at the stage when loan documents had already been prepared. Furthermore,
many sub-borrowers had chosen machinery even before seeking a loan. As a
result, FIRA submitted sub-loans for Bank approval which did not comply with
the procurement regulations of the Project Agreement. FIRA clearly had
difficulty meeting the project agreement formula, and expressed the judgment
that this regulation was both too inflexible and time-consuming, causing
considerable delays in sub-loan processing. In addition to prospective
borrowers' tendency to have already chosen equipment on the basis of their
own inquiries before approaching the Bank, FIRA defined as additional problems:
(i) that equipment from certain countries is particularly suitable and well-
developed for certain specialized activities; (ii) strong inflationary
trends make quotations valid for only short periods of time, making firms
reluctant to bid and increasing the time required and difficulty in getting
the required five quotations; and (iii) some foreign manufacturers have no
servicing facilities in Mexico, and are therefore not viable candidates
for equipment contracts. FIRA therefore requested the relaxation of the
procurement formula, on the grounds that it was both time-consuming and
required too many bids under Mexican conditions. The Bank, faced with



- ii -
delays in approving agro-industrial sub-loans due to non-compliance with
procurement requirements, responded by relaxing the formula so that sub-
loans would be acceptable even if they did not meet the five quotations
from three countries rule, provided that a sufficient number of legitimate
suppliers had been contracted and given reasonable time, (defined by the
Bank as approximately one month) to make a response. The Bank indicated
that provided that FIRA could detail why the five quotations from three
countries could not be obtained, sub-loans would be approved with fewer
quotations. After this relaxation of the procurement terms, which occurred
in January 1975, FIRA provided information on number of bids received, and
from'what sources,for agro-industrial sub-loan. Overall, Bank approval
for these sub-loans was speedy. Although the vast majority did not meet
the five bids-three country formula, FIRA did provide adequate evidence
that a reasonable number of bids have been reviewed, and a justification
existed for choosing from less than the required number of bids.
3.18      With hindsight, it appears that although sub-borrowers were not
in fact receiving quotations from five firms in three countries, in most
cases, the choice of machinery had been adequately researched by the sub-
borrower. FIRA's role in loan processing was therefore essentially a
passive one; technical evaluations were based on projects basically already
prepared by prospective borrowers, including the choice of equipment.
Prospective borrowers had considerable entrepreneurial ability and experi-
ence, and in fact the greatest emphasis in GSP agro-industrial sub-loans was
on the expansion and improvement of existing plants, rather than the
development of new facilities. Within this context, it would appear that
the Bank's insistence on a set formula for procurement of agro-industrial
machinery was too inflexible and unsuited to the Mexican conditions.
Clearly, sub-borrowers could well use some advice and assistance in seeking
a variety of quotations for machinery purchases, in order to achieve poten-
tial cost reductions. In the absence of such direction, prospective
sub-borrowers were most likely to purchase machinery easily viewable and
accessible in the United States. But the "five bids from three countries"
formula was too rigid and proved too cumbersome to implement. Further,
sub-borrowers had strong preferences and beliefs about the type of machinery
they wished to purchase before applying for the loans. The Bank's subse-
quent decision to modify this clause and allow approval of subloans in
which the borrower had evidenced reasonable efforts at shopping for equip-
ment, and made a prudent choice, was a sound and appropriate one.
Accounts and Audit
3.19      At negotiations, assurances were obtained that FIRA would continue
to submit certified statements of operating results and financial condition
not later than three months after the end of each FIRA fiscal year. FIRA
did comply with this assurance, and in addition produced quarterly reports
on the progress of the Fourth Project. However, these often were received
several months after the quarter closed. Audited balance sheets were well
prepared and received on a timely basis.



- 28 -
Disbursements and Reallocation of Funds
3.20      Disbursement of funds proceeded quickly, with project funds fully
disbursed in October 1975, one year ahead of schedule (Annex 2). Two
reallocations of funds were requested by FIRA during project implementation.
The first, approved January 1, 1975, reflected the inclusion of FINASA as an
institution eligible for project funds, for up to $4.5 million. The second
reallocation approved September 30, 1975 was necessary due to overdrafts
in categories 2a and 3a (GSP components for crop production and agro-industries)
(Table 4).
Project Lending Program
3.21      The lending program financed under the project totalled
10,881 sub-loans as compared with 12,589 forecast at appraisal. Thus the
project reached some 54,017 beneficiaries under the two sub-components
(Annex 4). The distribution of loan size reveals that 70% of the loans made
under the GSP component were less than US$20,000, and 19% were between
US$20-40,000. For the LIPSP component, 80% of the sub-loans were for less
than US$20,000 and only 7% were between US$20-40,000. Thus, of the total
beneficiaries receiving sub-loans about one-fourth under each sub-component
received less than US$20,000 under the project; the average loan size within
this category was US$10,300 for the GSP component, and US$5,600 for the
LIPSP component. The average loan size for each component as a whole was
US$25,337 for the GSP and US$19,162 for the LIPSP.
The GSP Component
3.22      The total number of loans financed under the GSP component was
slightly lower than appraisal estimates totalling 8,971 compared with a
forecast of 10,843; consequently, the average size of investment per sub-
loan was somewhat higher at US$29,100 compared with appraisal estimates of
US$19,900.
GSP - Number of Sub-loans
Average Size of Investment
(US$'000)
Number of Sub-loans           Average Size of Investment
Enterprise              Forecast       Actual           Forecast 1/        Actual
Livestock                6,489          5,151             20.3              27.2
Crops                    4,290          3,420             14.8              23.5
Agro-industries             64            114            318.8             312.8
Unclassified                 -            286                -              18.0
TOTAL                10,843          8,971             19.9              29.1
1/   Includes total price contingency of about 9%.



MEXICO
COMPLETION REPORT
FOURTH LIVESTOCK AND AGRICULTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LOAN 910-ME
ALLOCATIONS AND DISBURSEMENTS ($ Million)
Original        First                          Second                      total
Category                 Allocation    Reallocation         2        Reallocation          X       Disbursed          2
(January 1, 1975)             (Sept. 30, 1975)
I. Medium and long
term loans for live-
stock production:
(a) GSP component              50.9           50.9            47             51.4          47            51.2         99.6
(b) LIPSP component            14.4           14.4            13              9.6           9             9.6        100.0
II. Medium and long
term loans for
crop production:
(a) GSP component              24.5           21.2            22             25.3          23            25.3        100.0
(b) LIPSP component             8.9            7.7             8              8.6            8            8.6        100.0
(c) Part 1 bis (a)!'            -              4.5                            1.3            1            0.1)        31.0
(d) Part 1 bis (b)                                                            0                           1.3)
rll. Medium and long
term loans for
agroindustries:
(a) GSP component               7.4            7.4             7             12.3           11           12.4        101.0
(b) LIPSP component             1.7            1.7             1               .3            -            0.3        100.0
IV. Studies, training
and demonstration            2.2            2.2             2               1.2           1            1.2        100.0
TOTAL                 110.0          110             100            110.0          100          110.0
1/  Category II   parts (c) and (d) were added to the project agreement October 31, 1974 to provide
for NAFSINA's participption in the project.



- 30 -
The average size of the loan financed under the GSP component was also
higher than appraisal estimates. For the livestock category, the average
sub-loan totalled US$23,600 as compared with appraisal estimates of US$17,300.
In the crop category, the average sub-loans totalled US$19,700 as compared
with forecasts of US$12,500. Agro-industrial loans reached an average size
of US$296,491 as contrasted to appraisal estimates of US$254,700. None-
theless, funds loaned as a percent of investment closely paralleled appraisal
forecasts:



GSP - TOTAL INVESTMENT AND FUNDS LOANED
FORECAST - ACTUAL
(US$ Million)
% of Loans         Amount of Investment      Amount of Funds Loaned      Loans as % of Investment
Enterprise         Forecast  Actual      Fcrecast      Actual      Forecast        Actual      Forecast          Actual
Beef                    39        41          74.2         96.7         63.1           84.8         85                88
Dairy                   14         10         42.8         26.1         36.2            21;5        85                83
Other Livestock          7          7         15.1         17.5         12.8            15.5        85                88
Total Livestock         60         58        132.1        140.3        112.1          121.8
Annual Crops            32         30         50.1          61.9        42.6            51.8        85                84    1
Perennial Crops          7          8         13.2         18.3         11.2            15.6        85                86
Total Crops             39         38         63.3         80.2         53.8            67.4
A-roindustries           1          1         20.4          35.7        16.3            33.8        80                95
Unclassified             -          3           -            5.1         .-              4.4         -                86
TOTAL       100       100        215.8         261.3       182.2           227.4
Ln



- 32 -
The only substantial deviation from appraisal estimates was experienced
under the agro-industrial sub-loan category in which loans constituted 95%
of the investment, or an increase of 15% over appraisal estimates.
3.23      An analysis of project sub-loans by enterprise type reveals a
sectoral distribution of sub-loans which closely parallels appraisal esti-
mates. Thus, in terms of absolute numbers of sub-loans, livestock absorbed
58% of the sub-loans granted as compared with 60% forecast at appraisal, and
crop development 38% as compared with 40% forecast at appraisal. However,
certain deviations did occur within investment categories; thus 71% as
compared with 65% forecast at appraisal of livestock sub-loans were for beef
development, with a resulting decrease in the percentage of sub-loans for
dairy development (17% vs. 23% forecast at appraisal). In terms of total
funds loaned under the component, actual lending by investment category
closely paralleled appraisal estimates. Thus, 54% of total funds on-lent
were utilized for livestock sub-loans as compared with 60% forecast at
appraisal. The crop development category accounted for 30% of on-lent
funds as compared with 29% forecast at appraisal (Annex 1).
The LIPSP Component
3.24      The total number of loans financed under the LIPSP component was
slightly higher than appraisal estimates totalling 1,910 as compared with
a forecast of 1,746. The average size of the investment per sub-loan was,
correspondingly, slightly lower at US$20,600 as compared to appraisal fore-
casts of US$29,800.
LIPSP - Number of Sub-loans
Average Size of Investment
(US$ '000)
Number of Sub-loans        Average Size of Investment
Enterprise               Forecast    Actual         Forecast 1/         Actual
Livestock                   372        828             80.6                25.5
Crops                     1,368        920             13.5                18.7
Agro-industries               6          1            600.0                80.0
Unclassified                  -         161               -                 5.3
TOTAL                1,746      1,910             29.8               20.6
1/   Includes price contingency of about 9%.



- 33 -
The average size of the loan financed under the LIPSP component was also
lower than appraisal estimates at US$19,162 as compared with US$28,350 fore-
cast at appraisal. However, within the component itself substantial devia-
tions occurred. Due to the large increase in the number of sub-loans for
livestock development, 828 as compared with 372 forecast at appraisal, the
average loan size within this category was considerably below the appraisal
forecast of US$76,700, instead totalling US$23,900. The number of loans
for beef development registered the largest increase within the livestock
category, totalling 505, or more than two and one-half times the appraisal
total of 149. Dairy development sub-loans increased by approximately 60%
to a total of 274 under the sub-project. The number of sub-loans for crop
development totalled 920, as compared with appraisal forecasts of 1,386.
The average, however, is skewed by the large decrease in sub-loans for
perennial crop development, as sub-loans for annual crop investments approxi-
mated appraisal forecasts. Sub-loans for perennial crops totalled only
147 with an average loan size of US$19,500; the appraisal report forecast
sub-loans of an average of US$6,800 and totalling some 645 investment. The
deviation away from crop development investments, particularly for perennials,
in favor of livestock development, further reflects the sectoral problem of
continuing uncertainty over Government land tenure policies and programs,
resulting in a reluctance to make longer term fixed investments in land develop-
ment. Total funds loaned, as a percent of investment, closely parallel
appraisal forecast; thus, in both the livestock and crop development categories
loans as a percent of investment were 93% as contrast to 95% estimated at
appraisal.
LIPSP - Total Investment and Funds Loaned: Forecast - Actual
(US$ million)
Percent of Loans    Amount of Investment   Amount of Funds Loaned
Enterprise    Forecast   Actual   Forecast      Actual    Forecast        Actual
Livestock        21       43        30.0          21.20     28.5            19.70
Crops            78       48        18.5          17.20     17.6            16.00
Agro-industries   1        -         3.6            .08      3.4              .08
Unclassified      -        9           -            .90        -              .80
TOTAL     100       100        52.1          39.40     49.5            36.60
3.25      Total amount of investment and total funds loaned under the LIPSP
components were approximately 76% and 74% of appraisal estimates, respectively.
At appraisal, furthermore, it had been foreseen that the LIPSP sub-project
would include 6 agro-industrial sub-loans for the development of logging and saw-
mills, with a total investment of US$3.6 million, and total funds lent of US$3.4
million. However, the agro-industrial component of the LIPSP fell far short



- 34 -
of appraisal expectations at approximately US$800,000 total funds loaned.
The reasoa for the shortfall was due to the failure of the government agency
involved to complete project preparation (para 3.26).
ARro-industries
3.26      The Fourth Project included a sub-component for the financing of
agro-industrial investments in both the GSP and the LIPSP. Total investments
under the GSP agro-industrial sub-component were forecast at US$20.4 million,
with Bank financing totalling US$7.4 million. A reallocation of funds occurred,
however, in September 1975, increasing the Bank's contribution under the GSP
to US$12.3 million, and decreasing the LIPSP to US$300,000. Actual loans
for agro-industries totalled 114 under the GSP, as compared with appraisal
estimates of 64. The average size of investment per loan was slightly below
appraisal estimates, and the average sub-loan size slightly above as follows:
GSP - ARro-industries
(US$ Million)
Forecast       Actual
Number of Loans                                    64.0          114.0
Amount of Investment                               20.4           35.7
Amount of Funds Loaned                             16.3           33.8
Loans as % of Investment                           80.3            95.0
Average Size of Investment (US$'000)              318.8          312.8
Average Size of Sub-loan (US$'000)                254.7          296.5
Approximately 11% of the total IBRD loan under the project financed agro-
industrial investments. At appraisal, it had been envisaged that six
sub-loans would be processed under the LIPSP component for six logging
and saw mills for a total investment of US$3.6 million. These projects
were to be prepared by the "Forestal Vicente Guerrero" for investments
in the state of Guerrero. However, preparation of requests for financing
never materialized. Thus, less than one million dollars was on-lent for
low-income agro-industrial investments.
3.29      FIRA financed agro-industrial projects are generally of good
quality, and are only approved after an evaluation process carried out
by FIRA technicians, which eliminates 10-20% of total loan applications.
However, the success of the program is attributable not only to FIRA
technical staff, but also to the fact that prospective borrowers have
considerable entrepreneurial ability and are able to prepare sound
investment packages. FIRA's role is basically limited to a review based



- 35 -
on information prepared by prospective borrowers. As a result, FIRA financing
has tended to concentrate on large established agro-industrial producers;
intervention in the ejido sector is practically non-existent due to the ejidos
lack of experience in identifying and preparing projects for submission to
FIRA. Furthermore, the lack of useful and easily accessible data on existing
agro-industries, collected according to uniform standards among all FIRA
branches, is an area where considerable gains in time efficiency and analytical
strength could be accomplished.
3.28      FIRA has a total staff of 36 technicians with expertise in agro-
industries of which 35 are graduate agricultural engineers. The regional
distribution is well matched to sectoral requirements:
FIRA Agro-industrial Technicians
Region                                 Number of Technicians
Central Office (Mexico City)                          8
Northwestern                                          4
Northern                                              6
Northeastern                                          4
Western                                               3
Central                                               3
Southern                                              3
Guerrero-Michoacan                                    I
Yucatan Peninsula                                     1
TOTAL                                           36
Future strengthening of FIRA's agro-industrial unit should provide for FILRA's
intervention earlier in the project cycle. Although FIRA technicians do
an effective job in assuring that only viable projects are financed, earlier
participation in project identification could not only provide technical
assistance to borrowers in assessing alternate sources for equipment, but
also could lead to less capital intensive projects which increase the
potential for much-needed employment in Mexico. In addition, FLRA tech-
nicians should follow-up on industries financed in order to develop a
perception of the start-up and operational problems in sub-loan projects.



- 36 -
IV. Project Impact
On-farm Investment
4.01      FIRA records reporting investment items financed under the project
reveal certain systematic deviations from appraisal forecasts. However,
FIRA data have been revised in this report as FIRA includes certain plant
materials in the breeding stock category, thereby tending to overinflate
these figures. Based on a revised classification, the following pattern
was observed:
GSP Component
Analysis of Revised Reported
Investment Items    (US$ Million)
Land                     Machinery   Constructions   Breeding
Enterprise   Improvement   Irrigation  and Equipment   Installations   Stock     Total
Livestock         4.900      6.300          11.400        18.300         80.4    121.2
Annual Crops     20.100      7.300          20.600         3.700           -      51.6
Perennial Crops   8.600      2.900           2.800         1.300           -      15.6
Agro-industries   2.900      0.032          31.500         0.008           -      34.4
Unclassified      0.088      0.248           0.872         0.376          2.8      4.4
TOTAL      36.500      16.800         67.200         23.600        83.3     227.3
1/   Totals may not sum due to rounding.
Of the investment financed with loan proceeds, 53% of the total is attribut-
able to livestock operations; within these units, 66% of the investment
financed breeding stock and 4% and 5% respectively were attributable to
land improvment and irrigation. For annual crops, which accounted for 23%
of the financed investment, 40% of the total is attributable to machinery,
39% to land improvement and 14% to irrigation. The total number of units
financed under the component was as follows:



- 37 -
GSP Component
Units Financed
Land Improvement                         299,251
Irrigation                                 3,897
Machinery and Equipment                    3,476
Construction and Installations            12,731
Breeding Stock                           221,985
For livestock units, this represents a strong particularly deviation of
investment away from land improvement and irrigation in favor of breeding
stock.
GSP Component
Analysis of Reported Investment Items
Forecast - Revised Reported
Percent
Livestock Enterprises
Forecast       Reported
Land Improvement                         21              4
Irrigation                                4              5
Machinery and Equipment                   7             10
Construction and Installations           13             15
Breeding Stock                           55             66
TOTAL                              100            100



- 38 -
4.02      A similar pattern occurred under the LIPSP sub-component:
LIPSP Component
Analysis of Revised Reported Investment
Items (US$ Million)
Land                     Machinery    Constructions   Breeding
Enterprise   Improvement   Irrigation  and Equipment   Installations   Stock     Total
Livestock          0.248       0.576         2.200          3.200        13.500  19.700
Annual Crops       2.900       4.500         5.400          0.312          -     13.200
Perennial Crops    2.300       0.248         0.256          0.096          -      2.900
Agro-industries    0.016         -           0.088            -            -      0.104
Unclassified       0.016       0.032         0.272          0.008          0.400  0.816
TOTAL         5.400       5.400        .8.200          3.600         13.900 36.500
Thus, 54% of the total investment financed is attributable to livestock enterprises,
and for these units, 69% of the total was attributable to the breeding stock category.
36% of the total LIPSP investment was classified as annual crop units; within these
units, 41% of the investment financed machinery and equipment. Again, the deviation
from appraisal forecasts is clear:
LIPSP Component
Analysis of Reported Investment Items
Forecast - Revised Reported
Percent
Livestock Enterprises
Forecast        Reported
Land Improvement                         24              1
Irrigation                               -               3
Machinery and Equipment                  17             11
Construction and Installations           21             16
Breeding Stock                          38              69
TOTAL                              100            100



- 39 -
The total number of units financed through the LIPSP on-lending program was:
49,448 for land improvement; 528, irrigation; 1,170, machinery and equip-
ment; 3,389, construction and installation; and 46,986, breeding stock.
4.03      The pattern of systematic deviation away from appraisal forecasts
for investment by category reflects the continuing reluctance of farmers to
invest in land improvements due to the uncertainty over the agrarian reform
law. This trend was observed in previous projects and will continue so
long as the sectoral issue of land tenure is largely unresolved in Mexico.
In addition, as the LIPSP component was initiated by the project, it was
more difficult to anticipate the investment pattern in these units.
4.04      Project loans were utilized to purchase 269,000 head of cattle
worth approximately US$108 million equivalent (US$401 per head) or about
135,000 head worth US$54 million equivalent per year (Annex 3). Cattle
imports during 1974 and 1975 totalled 57,000 head valued at US$34.6 million
(US$532 per head) but complete data is not available to indicate FIRA financed
imports. In 1972 the national beef and dairy cattle herd was estimated at
26.3 million head, and the annual increment from 1972 to 1975 is estimated
to have averaged about 700,000 animals. This data suggests that FIRA was
financing about 19% of the annual increment to the national herd. On the
basis that 50% of the annual herd increment comprised breeding animals,
on average FIRA would have financed about 40% of these. Based on the
following assumptions: 40% cows in national herd, and an 18% heifer
replacement rate, about 2 million heifer replacements would be needed
in 1975 in order to maintain the national herd. Thus, FIRA financed cattle
represented about 7% of annual heifer replacements.
On-farm Development
4.05      Under the Fourth Project, a total of 10,881 sub-loans were granted
on the basis of farm development plans prepared by FIRA technicians. The
monitoring of the on-farm impact of the program was to be undertaken by
the monitoring unit established under the project in FIRA. Establishment
of the unit (para 3.04) proceeded extremely slowly, and methodological as well
as analytical problems have been encountered in its operation. Consequently,
data on the actual impact of on-farm investments are in a preliminary stage
of development at the time of project completion.
4.06      FIRA completed a preliminary survey of on-farm technical and mana-
gerial skills and services among small farmers and ejido groups. The study
was particularly geared to assess: (i) the existing quality of on-farm record
keeping; (ii) the quality and adequacy of technical assistance provided by
lending banks to the farm; and (iii) the degree to which the farm development
plan prepared by the technicians was being followed after sub-loan appraisal.
The study was based on a total of 273 pequenos proprietarios and 117 ejido
farms. The results of the survey closely parallel observations made in
earlier evaluation efforts. 7/ The study showed most sample farms had inade-
quate or non-existant systems for farm record keeping despite technical assist-
ance received from the participating banks and FIRA at appraisal. Within the
7/   See OED report Sec M77-353.



- 40-
pequenos proprietarios group, 81.% of the farms were classified as having no
record control systems at all, or systems which were ineffective. Some 15%
of the farms had systems which were classified as fair, while only 4% were
considered to have systems regarded as satisfactory. Within the ejido group
the pattern was similar--68% of the ejidos had either non-existent or in-
effectual systems, while 38% were classified as fair and only 4% as satis-
factory. Within both groups the standard of record keeping was best for
annual crop farms and dairy enterprises and worst for perennial crop farms
and beef enterprises.
4.07      The survey also investigated the quality and quantity of technical
assistance provi-ded by participating banks to borrowers, particula-rly within
the context of the implementation of on-f atm development plans. Within the
pequenos proprietarios group, the level of technical assistance was poor--
only 15% of the farmers were judged as having received adequate technical
assistance with the credit package, and only one farm out of the total was
judged as having implemented its development program as prescribed by the
investment plan. Ejido investments had a better record, receiving more
technical assistance from FIRA and the participating banks--54% of the
sample were classifie-d as having received satisfactory assistance, although
only 7% were found to have carried out their development plan as prescribed.
Collectivized ejido operations were more efficient in the use of scarce
technlical manpower resources indicating that the grouping of low-income
farmers might provide one mechanism for conserving limited technical assis-
tance efforts in future operations. However, it is clear that FIRA, as a
banking institution, is constrained in its ability to allocate resources
and personnel for technical assistance to small farmers. FIRA continued
its efforts to shift some of the technical assistance burden onto the
participating banks, and provided training to BE and BA staff in sub-loan
appraisal (para 3.02). However, the FIRA study clearly indicates that
technical assistance is required and in its absence, considerable deviation
from farm investment plans is likely to occur. The technical assistance
required by low-income producers will increasingly have to be provided
through the development of research and extension facilities complementary
to FIRA. Such assistance will be required to ensure that the technical
changes in productivity envisaged at sub-loan appraisal actually occur.
4.08      In September 1977, FIRA prepared a first report summarizing the
monitoring unit's survey of 276 lown-income producers and 117 ejidos. The
data are based on information from 1973-74, before the farms received credit,
and December 1976, the second year of the respective sub-loans. These data
are hardly indicative of the impact, at full development, of project sub-loans,
as they reaflect a poinat in time relatively early in project implementation.
However, they provide some financial information on low-income farms and
data reflecting productivity.



- 41 -
4.09      The FIRA monitoring unit also generated data on the physical and
technical progress experienced on sub-loan farms. The data on livestock opera-
tions is far from complete, particularly for ejido operations, but it does
provide information on basic changes in certain productive activities on-
farm. Smallholder beef ranches increased their carrying capacity relatively
little from 0.7 A.U./ha. to 0.8 A.U./ha; dairy farms did somewhat better
increasing their carrying capacity from 0.5 A.U./ha. to 0.8 A.U./ha. (Table 7).
Milk production per cow showed little change, although the value of milk
and meat output showed substantial increases. The average herd size
increased from 31 to 54 cows on the beef enterprise, and from 21 to 28 on
the dairy farms. Ejido beef enterprises increased their average improved
pasture area from 1,989.4 to 4,147 ha; however, carrying capacity rose
only marginally from 0.7 A.U./ha to 0.9 A.U./ha. Ejido dairy farms were
all new operations and therefore no "before project" comparisons can be
made. Output per cow in ejido dairies averaged 10.3 liters per cow per day.
4.10      The data on crop farm investments indicates that the expansion
in areas cultivated was substantial for all categories except ejido beef
farms which registered a decline for both annual and perennial crops (Table 8).
For smallholder enterprises the percentage increases were as follows:
Smallholder Sample
Percent Increase in Area Cultivated (ha)
Enterprise                Annual Crops             Perennial Crops
Beef                         106                        106
Dairy                         13                        -27
Annual Crops                  12                        212
Perennial Crops               20                        140
Mixed                         47                        248



LOAN 910-ME: FOURTH LIVESTOCK AND AGRICUL1URAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ANALYSIS OF CROP INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES ON SAMPLE FARMS
Value of Output        Value of Output in                                 Value of               Increased labor use
Area in               In Annual Crops         Permanent Crops       Area in Permanent         Crop Sales          per farm (man/years)
Farm Type              Annual Crops (ha)     (constant ,000 pesos)    (constant .000 pesos)        Crops (ha)       (constsnt ,000 pesos)     Family        Hired
Before      After    Before          After     Before          After    Before      After    Before          After           Permanent  Temporary
Smaliholders
Beef Cattle           411.0      850.1      586.9          789       177.0          460.6      83.9      172.8                               0.2      0.3        0.3
Dairy                 258         291.2     418            312.9      50.0           75.4      20.4       16.0                                -       0.5        0.6
N/A
Annual Crops        2,205.9     2,466.5   3,298.5        3,683.7      84.8          167.7      18.1       56.5                               0.1       -         0.2
Permanent Crops        55         66        119.5          103.2     530.4          812.1      78.9      189.6                               0.5       -        -0.2
Mixed                 274.9      403.1      617.3          937.5     143.7          176.7      28.2       98.3                               0.3      0.1        0.7       4-
Average             3,204.8     4,076.9   5,040.7        8,569.0     985.9        2,389.2     229.5      533.2    5,936.8         7,353.0    0.2      0.2        0.2
FRidos
Beef Cattle           800        150      1,482.5           37.6     650.7           28        96         29                                 1.9      0.2        3.1
Dairy               2,460       3,483    13,491.7       22,710.2   1,317.6        1,004.2     500        434                                -1.4      1.2        4.9
Annual Crops        2,886       5,039    12,243.4       16,594.9     204.9           64.1       67        134              N/A               2.7      0.2        0.9
Permanent Crope       577        223        501.4          184.8      66.4        1,030.6      41         318                                0.1      4.3        2.1
Mixed                 178         176       286.7          164.9      -             117.5      61         83                                -0.6      1.6        2.4
Average             6,902       8,971    28,007.7       39,693.0   2,239.6        2,244.6      704       998      29,613.5       30,644.0    1.2      0.8        1.9
Source:  FtUO, Primer Informe Sobre la Evolucin de la& Empresas Acteditadas Balo el Programs de Productore. de Bae oo Ingreeo      Segunda Porte, Agoeto, 1977.



MEXICO
LOAN 910-ME: FOURTH LIVESTOCK AND AGRICULTUIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Analysis of Livestock Investment Activities on Smple Farms
Value of Milk and   Heat and Milk Sales
Total Pastures (ha)              Carrying Capacity  Mtlk Production     Meat Output/ha          per farm           Average Herd Size
before                After             (A.U./ha)        (It/cow/day)      (constant pesos)    (constant ,000 pesos)        (A.U.)
Fare Type             Natural   lrvd       Natural   Improved   Before      After   Before    After   Before      After   before        After      Before      After
Smaelholdera
Beef hattle            52.2      23.7        55.1      28.7     0.7         0.8      2.7      2.6      337        516     32.4         51            31         54
Dairy                   5.8        -          3.3       2.3     0.5         0.8      6.1      5.7    2,691      4,153     64.1        104.2          21         28
Annual Crops                                                                         1.8      2.1      232         350     16.2         24.8         19         23
Permanent Cropa                                                                      N/A      2.1      501        916      -           47.9           -         50
Mixed                                                                                3.4      3.4      721      1,393     24.8          54.5         18         28
Kuidos
Beef Cattle         5,623.1   1,989.4    4,442.0    4,147.      0.7         0.9                                           27.5         174.9         84        212
Dairy                                                                                N/A     10.3                         N/A          559.3        N/A        146
Annual Crops
Permanent Crops
hixed
So rce   FONDO, Primer Informe Sobre Ia Evelueain de la% Elpreas Acredttadas Bala el Programa de Productores de Bhaos Ingresos- Sesunda Parte, A8osto, 1977.



- 44 -
Increases in cropped area were substantial then, on smallholder beef enter-
prise as well as mixed, annual and perennial crop farms. Dairy enterprises
performed worse registering only a 13% increase in annual crop acreage.
The ejido farms showed a similar pattern, although the beef units registered
a lesser increase, while dairy units performed relatively worse with an
increase in perennial crop acreage of 36% and a slight decrease in annual
crop acreage.
Eiido Sample
Percent Increase in Area Cultivated (ha)
Enterprise                Annual Crops              Perennial Crops
Beef                         -81                        243.0
Dairy                         42                        -16.2
Annual Crops                  75                         50.0
Perennial                    -60                         13.0
Mixed                          -                         36.0
The ejido sample reflects more extreme changes in patterns of cultivation;
however, total land under cultivation increased in all units except for
beef enterprises and perennial crop farms.
4.11      Yield data are organized by crop and on the basis of a small
sub-sample of both smallholders and ejido units. In general, changes in
yields on smallholder farms were not large:
Smallholder Sub-sample
Yields (ton/ha)
Enterprise             Units Sampled           Before         After
Crop: Maize
Beef                      13                   2.1           2.1
Dairy                      6                   2.4           2.1
Annual Crops              26                   1.4           1.6
Perennial Crops            5                   1.5           1.2
Mixed                     12                   2.5           2.8
Crop: Beans
Annual Crops              10                   0.6           0.6
Crop: Sorghum
Annual Crops              13                   3.6           4.6
Crop: Alfalfa
Annual Crops               8                  49.9          38.2
Crop: Wheat
Annual Crops               6                   1.6           1.8



- 45 -
It is clear from the proceeding table despite problems of the exact compara-
bility of before and after situations that changes in yields have not been
substantial; for sorghum, wheat, and maize some improvement was registered.
However, it also must be noted that the project sample is extremely small,
and was taken within the first two years of sub-project investments. In
addition, as in the case of alfalfa, the sub-sample does not cover the
most relevant type of sub-project, (dairy rather than annual crop units)
where technical improvements in productivity would be most likely to
occur.
4.12      With the ejido units, a similar pattern can be viewed:
Elido Sub-sample
Yields (ton/ha)
Enterprise             Units          Before          After
Crop: Cotton
Annual Crops           13             2.5            2.6
Dairy                   9             2.3            1.8
Crop: Maize
Annual Crops            6             2.9             2.2
Beef                    5             1.3             0.7
Again it is clear that the data are both tentative and incomplete; however,
changes in productivity have been minimal and even negative in some cases.
4.13      While the monitoring system has produced some useful data on
financial performance and technical productivity, few comprehensive conclu-
sions can be drawn from these preliminary results. The sample is a small
one, taken early in the life of the project, and the data collected are
expressed in financial terms which in the absence of more detailed tech-
nical information on the physical progress of sub-loans are not adequate
indicators of on-farm development. In addition, the deflation of figures
by the consumer price index is a conceptually less than optimum mechanism
for determining constant dollar changes in the value of input and output.
Clearly these early data reflect only modest changes in on-farm productivity
and tight financial and cash flow positions of low income producers. How-
ever, whether these modest gains will improve during the development period,
or not, cannot be directly extrapolated, particularly in the absence of
supporting information analyzing why such patterns have occurred.
4.14      The system of data collection itself, as is clear from these early
efforts, will require certain modifications in methodology. FIRA is planning
to increasingly measure physical rather than financial measures of on-farm
change, while limiting its sample to main areas of FIRA financing. Expansion



- 46 -
of the sample to cover medium income farmers is also planned. In addition,
technical coefficients for sub-borrower performance will have to be made
more complete and linked to the utilization of loan funds and on-farm develop-
ment plans prepared at the time of sub-loan appraisal.
Rates of Return
4.15      The Appraisal Report estimated the economic rate of return of the
project at 29%. In attempting to estimate the actual rate of return, yield
and production data were taken from the latest information collected by
the monitoring unit in 1977 from samples of ejido and smallholder units,
and from a special study undertaken by the livestock department of FIRA on
productivity in animal production units. Input and investment cost data
are based on the information presently available which was also utilized
in preparation of the Sixth Credit Project (Loan 1569-ME) which was appraised
at the end of 1977. Given the incomplete nature of the data available from
the monitoring unit and the fact that it is still too early to judge the
results of some types of lending (such as perennial crops), the overall rate
of return for the project can only be tentatively estimated; the best
judgement is that it is about 18%. As under the Third-Project, investments
in beef cattle continued to have the lowest rate of return, but to constitute
the largest category of lending once again reflecting farmers' reluctance
to invest in fixed assets such as land improvement in view of the unresolved
situation with regard to the agrarian reform law.
Beneficiaries
4. 16     Although the total number of GSP loans fell short of appraisal
estimates, the number of beneficiary families under the component totalled
30,465, far exceeding appraisal forecasts of 11,000 families (Table 6). The
increase in beneficiaries was due to a deviation away from appraisal expec-
tations that under the GSP loans would nearly always be made to individuals.
In fact, 68 sub-loans were made to ejido groups, 136 sub-loans were made to
private sociedades, and 1,526 sub-loans to private grupos solidarios. Such
a pattern reflects the income disparities which exist between ejidos, as
well as the Government's policy during the project implementation period to
encourage loans to farmer credit unions and other groups of farmers. Thus,
some 40% of the total funds loaned under the GSP were received by some
23,220 farmers organized into groups. It is probable that the large number
of members in sociedades is due, in part, to the inclusion of the agro-
industrial component in the figures, which may tend to inflate the figures
slightly.
4.17      Under the LIPSP, 792 out of a total of 1,910 sub-loans were attri-
butable to group lending. Thus, 86% of the total funds lent were received by
groups of various kinds. The component reached slightly more beneficiaries



- 47 -
(23,552) than appraisal forecast at 22,600. The ejidatarios received 74% of
the total, and accounted for 21,371 beneficiaries. Although the "Grupos
Solidarios" received a larger number of loans (314), the "Sociedades Locales
de Credito Ejidal" received the largest amount of funds, totalling Mex$ 236.9
thousand, and accounted for the largest number of beneficiaries, 16,456 or
70% of the total under the sub-project. The Government policy to organize
large ejidos in the southeast region contributed to the importance of credit
societies as a channel for medium term credit ejidatarios.
4.18      The GSP sub-project was envisaged as countrywide in scope at appraisal;
in fact, the distribution of project costs was quite even, with the South
accounting for the smallest proportion, 8%, and the Northeast the largest
portion of total project costs at 22%. The LIPSP, in contrast, was expected
to be concentrated in the "poorest regions", such as the states of Oaxaca,
Guerrero, Queretaro, and Aguas Calientes. In fact, 36% of total project
costs were attributable to the north region, 20% to the west, and 15% to
the south indicating a slight deviation from appraisal forecasts.
V. Bank Performance
5.01      The appraisal mission for the Fourth Project concentrated its
efforts on the preparation of an innovative component for lending to low-
income farmers, but also continued to address itself to FIRA's overall
financial and institutional development. As in the Third Project, the
Fourth Project appraisal report contained a number of detailed representa-
tive farm models for beef, crop and agro-industrial investments. Supervision
of the project absorbed a total of 47 manweeks, with missions focusing much
of their attention on institutional development within FIRA, particularly
the operation of the monitoring unit, problems encountered with the procure-
ment of agro-industrial machinery (para 3.15) and the progress of the on-
lending program to GSP and LIPSP sub-components. Supervision missions had
neither the time nor resources to directly follow up on the progress of
on-farm investments, nor to make field assessments of the level of tech-
nical assistance being received by farmers and its impact on farming
practices.
5.02      An important issue faced by the Bank during the otherwise smooth
and rapid implementation of the project was the establishment and operation
of the monitoring unit. The Bank's goal in requesting the creation of
such a unit was based on experience in the previous three projects, which
was marked by a lack of information on the impact and effectiveness of the
investment program on-farm. Data collected through a consultant's evalua-
tion in 1972 indicated that, although the financial gains experienced by
producers appeared satisfactory, there was a need to gather more compre-
hensive data on the physical productivity of sub-borrowing farms. Certainly,
given the size and importance of the FIRA program, the creation of a monitoring
unit within FIRA was a sound objective. However, the appraisal report did
not take into account the practical difficulties inherent in the establish-
ment of such a unit, particularly in following small scale farmers who keep
few or no records. The report also did not attempt to outline the basic
principles and objectives of such a program at the outset of the project



MEXICO
LOAN 910-ME-FOURTH LIVESTOCK AND AGRICULTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Loan Distribution by Type of Borrower
Number                           Number of
of         Number of          Beneficiaries    Loan      Average      Average per
Loans      Beneficiaries        per Loan        Total     per Loan     Beneficiary
____________--------Mex$ Million------------------       ---------Mex$ '000-------
GSP
Ejidatarios                  123            7,658             62            156.3      1,270.7         20.4
Sociedades                  36           7,413             206            130.7      3,630.6         17.6
Grupos Solidarios           32             190               6             19.9        621.9        104.7
Individuales                55              55               1              5.7        103.6        103.6
Peguenos Propietarios      8,848          22,807               3          2,685.5        303.5        117.7
Sociedades                 136          11,737              86            409.2      3,008.8         34.9
Grupos Solidarios        1,526           3,880               2            514.4        337.1        132.6
Individuales             7,186           7,190               1          1,761.9        245.2        245.0
Total                      8,971          30,465             3.4          2,841.8        316.8         93.2
Forecast Total            10,843          11,000               1          2,695.0        228.7        228.7
LTPSP
Ejidatarios                  552           21,371             39             337.1       610.7          15.8
Sociedades                 238          16,456              69            236.9        995.4         14.4
Grupos Solidarios          314           4,915              16            100.2        319.1          20.4
Peguenos Propietarios      1,358            2,181              2             120.3        88.6          55.2
Sociedades                  53             480               9              32.9       620.8         68.5
Grupos Solidarios          187              584              3              22.4       119.8          38.4
Individuales             1,118           1,117               1             65.0         58.1         58.2
Total                      1,910           23,552            12.3            457.4       239.5         19.4
Forecast Total             1,746           22,600             13             651.3       340.0          26.2



- 49 -
and to assist FIRA at a working level in defining those objectives and means
to achieving them. Additional supervision resources, furthermore, would
have been useful early in project implementation particularly in assisting
FIRA in the design of the monitoring program.
VI. Special Issues and Conclusions
Substitution
6.01      The Bank is concerned with the degree to which lending supported
by the Bank substituted for funds from different sources which would have
gone to the same producers with only marginally different results. Although
the evidence on the Mexican agricultural credit system is incomplete, OED,
in its study of the Bank's agricultural credit program in Mexico, concluded
that substitution had been substantial. II/ However, the Fourth Project
introduced an innovative program for lending to low-income farmers; by
definition these farmers had little access to credit prior to the project.
Therefore, for this group of sub-borrowers, substitution of funds, in our
opinion, has been minimal. In addition, as the FIRA program of lending to
commercial producers has been expanding rapidly and thereby reaching a
growing group of producers, although we have no quantitative data, it is
our judgment that substitution has been of declining importance in the
Fourth Project.
6.02      The Fourth Project reflected few changes in the basic project
design utilized in the Bank-FIRA program. The project did introduce the
LIPSP component and the establishment of the monitoring system, reflecting
the Bank's judgment that the program must expand into new areas of lending,
as well as begin to develop the capacity for a self-evaluation of the
on-going program. The project continued to provide for the expansion of
an innovative program linking agricultural credit and technical assistance
in the agricultural sector. Certainly the project can be judged as timely;
the demand for credit has continued to be strong, and the rapid rate of
fund commitment indicates that FIRA was well able to expand its lending
program to process a growing portfolio.
6.03      The ex-post evaluation of project impact is characterized by a
degree of uncertainty due to incomplete data on technical and financial
changes.  However certain patterns are clear.    Farmers continued to
prefer investments in livestock enterprises despite preliminary indications,
particularly for smallholder dairy units, that the financial returns have not
been relatively more attractive than crop production investments. Further-
more within the livestock category, substantial deviations from appraisal
forecasts occurred as farmers purchased a higher percentage of breeding
stock and invested relatively less in land improvement. Within the crop
production category, farmers revealed a preference for investments in
equipment and machinery, again, with a slight decline in land improvement.
This pattern closely follows that experienced under the Third Project and
reflects the continuing uncertainty over land tenure and the agrarian
reform law which resulted in farmers' reluctance to make fixed long term
investments in land development.
11/ Report SEC M77-353.



- 50 -
6.04      Although the Bank was justified in its pressure to establish a
monitoring unit in FIRA, the appraisal report did not provide the broad
outlines and objectives of such a unit and supervision missions were not
able to devote sufficient technical resources to closely monitoring FIRA's
early start-up efforts. Clearly, the institution-building and training
effects of the establishment of the monitoring unit within FIRA have been
substantial and could have been greater had the Bank been able to devote
more resources to its development. Institutional growth under the project,
was also significant in the strengthening of FIRA's agro-industrial unit.
Again, future programs should stress the follow-up of agro-industrial
investments by FIRA in order to monitor progress and assess likely problems.
The quality of farm investment appraisal in general improved over the
project lifetime although the standard varies regionally. FIRA training
courses have fdcused on providing participating bank technicians with
loan appraisal procedures and techniques; further training is needed in
pasture and animal management and farm production to strengthen the
evaluation of on-farm progress as well as to provide technical assistance.
6.05      The Fourth Project introduced a new component for lending to
low-income producers and ejidos. The implementation of this program by
FIRA has been satisfactory and the number of sub-loans granted slightly
exceeded appraisal estimates. However, several lessons can be drawn from
the preliminary evaluation completed by FIRA on the implementation of
these sub-loans. Although it appears that early financial indicators are
generally positive for LIPSP producers, technical data indicate that little
change may be taking place in on-farm management practices. In addition,
in FIRA's own assessment (para 4.07), the majority of LIPSP participants
were not receiving adequate technical assistance and, in the absence of this
support, reported substantial deviations from their on-farm development
plans. FIRA's role in initiating an increased flow of funds to low income
producers naturally necessitated a large effort by the institution as
participating banks had little experience and few staff trained in this
area. Thus FIRA carried a larger burden in organizing training efforts,
and preparing materials necessary to the implementation of the project.
However, future expansion of FIRA's portfolio with low income farmers will
require the increased shifting of technical assistance onto the participating
banks and supporting agencies.



HEX ICO
LOAN 910-HE-FOUR1l'i LIVESTOCK AND AGRICULTURE IEVELOPHENT PROJECT
GSP & LISP Forecast and Actual Breakdown ot Project Subloanis by Enterprise Type
---A-ctual---------------------Forecast---------------------------------                   --------------------A-tua-------              -ct-a------------ -- --- ------ ------------
Number      Percent      Amount          Amount        Loans as      Percent                Number    Percent        Amount        Amounit      Loans as        Percent
of          of            of          of Funda      Percent of    ot Funids                 of         ot            of         of Funds     Percent of      of Funds
terprise                        Loans       Loans      Investment        Loaned      Investment     Loaned                  Loans      Loans       Investment      Loaned      InvestmIeL1t     Loaned
-----lillon of Pesos--                                                                    ----Hilliou of Pesos--
vestuck
Beef                           4,400         35          1,053           909            86            31                   4,145       38            1,316         1,159          88             35
Dairy                           1,663         13            725           632            87           22                   1,166       11              455           389          85             12
Other                             798          7            248           216            87            8                     668        6              248           220          89              7
Subtotal                    6,861         55          2,026         1,757            87           61                    5,979       55            2,019         1,768          88             54
ops
Annwal                         4,203          33            800           697            87           24                   3,450       32              951           812          85             24
Perennial                       1,455         12            222           195            88            7                     890        8              266           231          89              7
Suibtoual                   5,658         45          1,022           892            87           31                    4,340      40             1,217         1,043          86             31
,r.- lndustrie'                     72         -             300           247            82            9                      114        1             447           423          95              13
classi fled                        -           -             -             -              -            -                      448        4               75            65          87              2
'IOTAI. GSP &LIPSP             12,591        100         3,348          2,896            86          100                  10,881      100            3,758         3,299          881           100



- 52 -
ANNEX 2
MEXICO
COMPLETION REPORT
FOURTH LIVESTOCK AND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Disbursements
Loan 910-ME
IBRD
Fiscal
Year and           Total Actual         Appraisal          Actual Disbursements
Quarter           Disbursemeuts        Estimates         X of Appraisal Estimates
1973/74
2nd                                    4.0
3rd                                    8.7
4th                                   13.9
1974/75
1st                16.9               19.5                     86
2nd                57.9               29.2                    198
3rd                57.9               41.4                    140
4th                78.3               54.8                    143
1975/76
1st                94.7               70.4                    135
2nd               110.0               77.1                    143
3rd                  -                85.3
4th                  -                94.3
1976/77
1st                  -               105.5
2nd                  -               107.2
3rd                  -               109.5
4th                  -               110.0
Closing Date:                        6/30/78
August 1, 1977



MEXICO
LOAN 910-ME-FOURT11 LIVESTOCK AND AGRICULTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Dlatribution of Loan Size
CSP & LIPSP          GSP 6 LIPSP       GSP b LIPSP          CSP b l.IlSP            GSP & LIPSP
Bene-              Loan                                          Average Loan              tn
Loan Size                                       Loans            ficiaries            Total              Average Loan Size        per Beneficiary             W
Hex$                             US$                       No.       %         No.      %       Hex$S        X       Hex$        US$        Mex$          uS$
Less than             250,000     Less than    ;    20,000           6,318      70.4     7,906     25.9      815.4     31.7     129,100      10,300     103,100      8,250
from    250,001 to    500,000     from  20,001 to  40,000             1,674     18.7     2,726      9.0     674.6      23.9     403,000     32,250      247,500     19.800
from    500,001 to 1,000,000      from  40,001 to  80,000              683       7.6     3,248     10.7      541.6     17.6     793.000     63,450      166,750     13,350
from  1,000,001 to 1,500,000      from  80,001 to 120,000               173      1.9       873      2.9      233.0      7.6   1,346,800    107,750      266,900     21,350
More than           1,500,001     More tban        120,001              123      1.4    15,712      51.5     577.2     19.2   4,692,700     375,400      36,700      2,950
SUBTOTAL              8,971     100.0    30.465    100.0   2,841.8     100.0     316,800     25,350       93,3W       7,450
Less than             250,000     Less thal        20,000             1,531     80.2     6,134     26.0      107.3     23.5      70,100      5,600       17,500      1,400
from    250,001 to                from  20,001 to  40,000               138      7.2     2,112      9.0      44.5       9.7     322,700     25,800       21,100      1,700
from    500,001 to 1,000,000      from  40,001 to  80,000               113      5.9     4,029     17.1       63.8     13.9     564,700     45,200       15,800      1,250
from  1,000,001 to 1,500,001      from  80,001 to 120,000                30      1.6       944      4.0       24.7      5.4     821,600     65,700       26,200      2.100
More than           1,500,001     More than       120,001                98      5.1    10,333     43.9      217.1     47.5   2,225,300     178,000      21,000      1,700
SUBTOTAL              l.910     100.0    23.552    100.0     457.4     100.0     239,500     19,150       19,400      1,550
IOTAL              10.881       -      54,017      -     3,219.1       -       295,850     23.650       59,600      4,750       M



MEX ICO
lOAN 910-NE-FOUliTH LIVESTOCK AND AGRICULTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECI
Princl   l IndIcators_ot!f FLR s EvoluLiun. 1962-1976
2/
1962      1968       1969      1970      1971      1972      1973       1974      1975      1976
Assets                                             336.6 1/                      2,288.6   3,105.8   3,538.1   4,160.9   7,226.7    8,672.9   11,759.2
Discounted Total Funda                             189.6 1/ 1,141.1   1,225.4    1,374.0   1,513.1   1,518.0   2,388.9   4,018.9   4,507.9     6,700.0
Portfolio                                          285.1 1/                     2,056.3    2,394.2   2,594.0   3,422.4   5,070.8   6,603.5     9,413.2
Short tern loan                                 712.5 1/                       423.2     442.7      421.6     696.0   1,281.3    1,369.4    2,070.9
Medlum and Long term loans                      212.6 1/                     1,633.1    1,951.5   2,172.4   2,726.4   3,789.5    5,234.1    7,342.3
Nuiber of Participating Inatt-
tutions in FIRA credit programs                 42                             120        142       147       165       150        156        155
Private Banks                                   30                              82         93        95       102        97        99         103
Financieras                                     12                              29        42         42        52        41        43          38
Officlal Batks                                                                    9         7        10        11         12        14         14
Number of Borrowers receiving
loansa each year (including
both short & long term loans)                4,906      27,229    30,863    31,543     26,594    30,656    46,636    91,048    101,103    104,640
Program for low Income producers
Elidatarios, small free-
holders & mlnifuuidistas                     3,391      20,783    22,136    23,719     20,132    22,532    37,100    77,159     82,180     84,518
General Prograw
C:omercial producers                          1,515      6,446     8,727     7,824     6,462      8,124     9,536    13,885     18,923     20,122
Number of technical staft                           58                            320        378       402       457       604        670        720
11 Mex$ millions
2/ Preliminary figures
Source:  FIRA



I B R D 11789R
110'                              lao'                                    -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0  MARCH  157B
i11-_ UNITED STATES
MERICALI I
U N   IT   E D              S  T A   T E   S
)AMA CA
E, S ik 01 r, *.a.      HEM- LntCtQ\                                               ,sr                                             ~~JA  CAON 
'N                                                                                                        HELITE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.HNUA
30-                                                                                                                    G CUATEMALA ' 9NICARAGUA
a.     G-de,                                                            30 o              EL SALVADOR  ZONG
O c e a n   <  ATA gAZ   XACAN<D U R A N G O  'X |  1, >  4   l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~COTARIA~-.,~,
N~ ~ V\ AHROSL                                                                                                90'AGSA5,  I  XM 
W  ) I               fl =    F   FRe5nil6S,>1~'  S  I J I \ J TCHPHUAHJA
- - - - - -  ~ ~ ~ -OCd C-b,.-                     P o- N.g- Ct\
| M-d- 0,1                        _
~~~~~COhc,9en5          COHIM  ,9i - jH,ACU.'- H EU MA L/i  -il
-*- InPernatiocoIJ n* I                                      A        N    MATCeS-cc
|O  ~   -,  OP~ Du  Mocdc                                                I C         t
KlLO^,IIETERS ~~ ~        ~       ~NEV .;~ ,G ,,;,                               TPlf l                  ONUA
_~  I    ~    ,  0Gcn,ace               I TORREON     OMONTERRC d  V ATAMO9OS
0~~~~
'-C            ---a '~~                                                          -~
-5-     '                                          AlT  /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~YUC 
-v    DARANGO    TAI,,cAE aHIDA L./411                                               -A N C-0
A        SC0CEAA 0AHI                                                              AT        I. 0
0        Cd. IG LN Z
ZACATICAT  LU-  C ~~~~~~~~~~~~dord  RACUZAnUITA
MEXICO                  I~~~~~~~VI. N  ~~~~~~CALIENTILIMAI  P                                          CHETUMALi
0  ,   o~~~~~        ~ CHOAC   C,/ A
- - - - -  State Boundaries                                                              M.OTEIC--  TELN    MEID
DISTRIBU~~~ltIrOtinOF Budries'  OFFCE0f.,AARI)                ,     dA.~JI  0          A CA                                      BELIZE,
BY00    30 REGIO   500                                                                                     GUAATAEAMALAo R,O~O~c 
KILOMETERSJA               L IS  C O                                                    T. 
CHOACATNi  '-~~~~~~~-  ~~1j~~~ERAHON                      URA
o  Age cies                            -'--' M           CAENAAA~ -pt-.lcn-et bRTd-A
lio,                              100,~~~~~~~~~O ccln  A X 
0    OOAXACA  MoSot 'eco  TAXTRA GVTIERREZ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E



