Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 16640
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
POLAND
ENVIRONMENT MANAGEMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 3190-POL)
May 30, 1997
Energy, Environment and Transport division
Central Europe Department
Europe and Central Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Zloty
AVERAGE EXCHANGE RATES
1990      1991      1992      1993      1994       1995      1996      1997
(April)
US$1.00  Zloty       9,500    11,100    13,630    17,000    22,500       2.44       2.70      2.88
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BITS               Swedish Board for Investment and Technical Support
CAS                Country Assistance Strategy
ECA                World Bank's Europe and Central Asia Vice Presidency
EU                 European Union
EU Phare           European Union Assistance Program for Central and Eastern Europe
GOP                Government of Poland
ICR                Implementation Completion Report
IPPC              Integrated Pollution Prevention and Control
LIU                Local Project Implementation Unit
MoEnv              Ministry of Environment
National Fund      National Fund for Environment and Water Protection
RWMB               Regional Water Management Board
PIU                Project Implementation Unit
SAR                Staff Appraisal Report
USAID              United States Agency for International Development
Vice President                              Johannes Linn
Director (acting)                     :     Hans J. Apitz
Division Chief (acting)                     Henk Busz
Task Manager                          :     Helmut Schreiber



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
POLAND
ENVIRONMENT MANAGEMENT PROJECT
(Loan 3190 POL)
CONTENTS
Preface
Evaluation Report                                                                           ii
Part I. Project Implementation Assessment
A.    Project Objectives                                                             1
B.    Achievement of Project Objectives                                              2
C.    Major Factors Affecting the Project                                            3
D.    Project Sustainability                                                         5
E.     Bank Performance                                                              5
F.     Borrower Performance                                                          7
G.    Assessment of Outcome                                                          8
H.    Future Operations                                                              8
I.     Key Lessons Learned                                                          10
Part II. Statistical Annexes
Table 1:      Summary of Assessments
Table 2:      Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3:      Project Timetable
Table 4:      Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5:      Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6:      Key Indicators for Project Operation
Table 7:      Studies Included in Project
Table 8A:     Project Costs
Table 8B:     Project Financing
Table 9:      Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 10:     Status of Legal Convenants
Table 11:     Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table 12:     Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Appendix:
A.    Project Implementation Unit Contribution to the ICR
B.    Letter from Government of Poland, Ministery of Environment on the ICR
Map: IBRD 22138
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



N



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
POLAND
ENVIRONMENT MANAGEMENT PROJECT
(Loan 3190 POL)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the ENVIRONMENT MANAGEMENT
PROJECT in Poland, for which loan 3190 POL in the amount of US$18 million was approved in April
1990 and made effective in July 1990.
The loan was closed on December 31, 1996; December 31, 1994 was the original closing date. It was
fully disbursed, and the last disbursement took place in December 1996.
Cofinancing for the project was provided by the European Union, the United States and Sweden.
The ICR was piepared by Mr. Helmut Schreiber], EC2ET, of the Europe and Central Asia Region and
reviewed by Mr. Henk Busz, Acting Division Chief and Mr. Franz Kaps, project adviser. The borrower
and cofinanciers provided comments that are incorporated in the ICR and included as appendixes to the
ICR.
Preparation of this ICR took place in March and April 1997. It is based on material in the project file. The
borrower contributed to preparation of the ICR by preparing its own evaluation, attached as Appendix A,
of the project's execution and initial preparation and commenting on the draft ICR.
The ICR was drafted by a Bank mission to Poland in March/April 1997 composed of Julia Bucknall, David
Hanrahan, Naushad Khan, Stephen Lintner, Piotr Wilczynski and Helmut Schreiber.



N



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
POLAND
ENVIRONMENT MANAGEMENT PROJECT
(Loan 3190 POL)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction. The objectives of the Environment Management Project (Project) were to provide an
umbrella framework for analysis of a selected number of high priority environmental concerns in Poland
and to support demonstration of a decentralized approach to environmental management. The Project was
designed to provide assistance to Poland, on an accelerated basis, to strengthen its capacity in analysis
and design of policy, regulatory, institutional and investment actions to improve environmental quality. It
was the first project of this kind in Poland and in the Europe and Central Asia Region (see para. I in the
main text.)
Project Objectives and Components. The Project addressed key issues at the national level and on
operational activities in three officially designated "ecological disaster" areas of Katowice, Krakow and
Legnica. It was also intended to serve as a catalyst for effective use of multilateral and bilateral
environmental assistance. The Project comprised four components (see para. Iff):
• Component I - Management Systems and Specialized Support. The Component supported a
series of complementary measures to assist the Ministry of Environment (MoEnv) and
cooperating parties in the development of new management systems and preparation of model
studies. This component was modified during implementation to meet emerging priorities of
the MoEnv, in which emphasis was placed on a major review of the structure and functions of
the MoEnv and its research institutes; review of its regulatory and enforcement programs;
evaluation of the use of economic incentives; assessment of communication and information
technology requirements; special studies on management of saline water from coal mines and
advisory support for management of mineral and petroleum leasing.
* Component 2 - Industrial Efficiency and Environmental Reviews. Through a cooperation
agreement with the Ministry of Industry and Trade which served as the implementing agency,
the Project supported the introduction of environmental audit techniques in Poland, trained 8
"trainers" and 130 local specialists through practical field based courses, and prepared a series
of 22 full and 18 training audits for major industrial and energy facilities in excess of that
anticipated. Specialized training at facilities in Denmark, Sweden and the United States was
received by 34 Polish specialists.
* Component 3 - Air Quality Management. This component established a modem system of air
quality monitoring, linked to environmental management programs, for the Katowice and
Krakow regions. A network of fully compatible air quality monitoring stations was
implemented with 10 stations in Katowice region with Project funding, 2 additional stations in
Katowice region with supplemental Polish funding and 6 stations in Krakow region with
funding from the United States.



iii
Component 4 - Water Resources Management. This component supported demonstration of
an integrated approach to water resources management in the Upper Vistula River Basin, and
establishment of Regional Water Management Boards (RWMBs) in Katowice and Krakow.
Three complete Geographic Information System (GIS) facilities were developed in the
RWMBs and in Institute of Meteorology and Water Management in Warsaw.
Implementation Experience and Results and Sustainability (see para. 6-12).
* Institutional Development. The MoEnv and cooperating parties were successful in
strengthening a series of institutions and developing a diverse range of professional skills. The
Project enabled a large number of Polish specialists to successfully adapt their knowledge of
science and technology to the types of environmental management issues associated with an
emerging market economy.
* Physical Objectives. The physical objectives of the Project were met and even exceeded.
Through the significant cost savings and provision of supplemental funding from the National
Fund, EU (Phare) and bilateral donors the project was expanded.
* Overall Implementation and Operation. The management units responsible for the Project
were fully effective in their implementation activities despite the significant administrative
and economic changes which occurred in Poland.
* >Costs and Implementation Timetable: While disbursements generally followed the Project
Disbursement Plan, the closing date for the Project was extended to December 31, 1996. Two
extensions were required to allow for implementation of an enhanced program of Project
supported activities funded with savings realized through competitive procurement procedures
and as a result of supplementary grant resources from EU (Phare) and bilateral donors. The
Project stayed within the envisaged cost limits.
* Performance of the Bank and the Borrower. The overall performance of the Bank in all stages
of the Project was highly satisfactory. Project preparation took place on a compressed cycle
with a combined identification and preparation mission in September 1989, followed by an
appraisal mission in November 1989. Following Board Approval in April 1990, the
implementation of Project proceeded smoothly. The overall performance of the Borrower in
all stages of the Project was highly satisfactory.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned. The outcome of the Project is
assessed as highly satisfactory since it achieved its major objectives, exceeded its physical objectives and
is highly likely to achieve sustainable development results. The Project provided the basis for accelerated
demonstration and adoption of new approaches to environmental management in Poland, strengthening of
institutions and programs to support their functioning and implementation, and provision of new types of
equipment for environmental management at the field level.
Future Operations and Recommendations. Follow-up operations, funded domestically, will be undertaken
by a number of implementing organizations on a decentralized basis. This will be reflected in the
individual work plans of the key organizations based in Katowice, Krakow, Tarnow and Warsaw, which
were significantly strengthened under the Project and have the critical human and material resources to
undertake their functions provided adequate funding is available for staff salaries, operational activities
and equipment operation and maintenance.
Key Lessons Learned.



iv
* The Project benefited significantly from development of a shared vision between the
Borrower and the Bank concerning the challenges of integrating environmental issues into the
economic transition process. This provided the critical basis for the design and
implementation of a Project which focused on "cooperation" rather than "assistance."
* The sustained high level commitment by the Borrower and the Bank was critical to the
success of the Project. The Borrower, despite several successive Ministers of Environment
and changes in local governments, remained strongly committed to the objectives of the
Project. Bank management provided adequate resources during all stages of the Project,
including supervision, to maintain a core "project team" of experienced Bank staff and highly
qualified consultants.
* Project preparation was based on a field review process which led to clear identification of
institutional and professional priorities; a large number of representatives of these institutions
were effectively involved in the process.
* A major factor contributing to the sustained quality of the Project during all phases of design
and implementation was the careful selection of the primary Borrower and Bank staff and
their high level of continuity.
* Both\ design and implementation were facilitated by the cooperative development of work
plans; including schedules, budgets and procurement plans. Joint preparation of these work
plans allowed the Borrower and the Bank to have a clear understanding of the common goals
and key actions necessary to achieve successful implementation.
* In a technical assistance project, the Bank should expect that intensive support will be
required in the early phases of implementation. The successful start-up of the Project involved
extensive use of experienced Bank technical and procurement staff. This support proved to be
critical in making the transition from the "design phase" to the "implementation phase."
* Bank support for technical assistance projects and activities can accelerate the rate at which
Borrowers can prepare and implement their environmental management programs and serve
as a catalyst for the mobilization of donor resources.
* It should be anticipated, given the dynamic conditions in countries in economic transition, that
the timely availability of counterpart funds would be a problem even when the Government is
highly committed to the Project.
* The high level of attention paid to procurement and disbursement issues in the appraisal
process and initial phase of the Project, including the training of Borrower staff and
preparation of procurement plans, had a significant positive impact on the quality of
implementation and resulted in cost savings.
* The Project clearly demonstrated that it is possible in the ECA context, when strong
professional interest exists and resources are well targeted, to shift the focus of institutions
and individuals from applied research to environmental management.
* The Project demonstrated that it is possible to compress the cycle for development of
technical assistance projects if there is strong Borrower commitment.



\I



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
POLAND
ENVIRONMENT MANAGEMENT PROJECT
(Loan 3190 POL)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A.    Project Objectives
1.    Introduction. The objectives of the Environment Management Project (Project) were to provide
an umbrella framework for analysis of a selected number of high priority environmental concerns in
Poland and to support demonstration of a decentralized approach to environmental management. The
Project was designed to provide assistance to Poland, on an accelerated basis, to strengthen its capacity in
analysis and design of policy, regulatory, institutional and investment actions to improve environmental
quality. A major focus was development of a large cadre of Polish specialists with knowledge of new
approaches to environmental management and experience with new technologies. The Project addressed
key issues at the national level and on operational activities in three officially designated "ecological
disaster" areas of Katowice, Krakow and Legnica. It was also intended to serve as a catalyst for effective
use of multilateral and bilateral environmental assistance. It should be noted that the Project was
developed during the very beginning of the economic transition process in Poland and prior to the
availability of significant grant support for technical assistance, training and equipment procurement.
2.    Linkage to Priorities. The Government of Poland (GOP) gave high priority to addressing
environmental issues as a fundamental element of its economic reform process. Thiswas reflected in the
Country Assistance Strategy of the Bank and selected actions were addressed through the Project. Strong
support for the Project from the GOP and local governments continued during the entire course of
implementation. The objectives of the Project proved to be well formulated and reflected the priorities
established by Poland for strengthening environmental protection through adoption of new management
techniques and use of innovative technologies. The objectives of the Project were realistically established
with regard to the ability of cooperating organizations to upgrade their management and technical
capacity at national and local levels.
3.    Project Demands. The Project was demanding for Poland in that it required development of a
new management structure for design and approval of activities; coordination and supervision of their
implementation; and allocation of local and international resources. Completely new procedures for
procurement of goods and services, based on a competitive and transparent process, were also necessary.
Despite these novel challenges, Polish experts were very well prepared to address the scientific and
technical aspects of the Project and proved to be highly successful in applying their existing skills to
environmental management issues.
4.    Project Complexity. Project complexity was considerable both with regard to the range of priority
environmental management and technical actions it covered and their locations, which included Warsaw



-2 -
and three regions. Project risks included the sustained commitment of the GOP to support environmental
measures as a priority, and its willingness to adopt policy and institutional changes and innovations.
Another risk was Government commitment to provide counterpart funds in a timely manner and to
allocate supplemental funding from EU and bilateral grants for Project activities. Project demands were
considered to be within the capacity of Polish counterparts and the risks were viewed as acceptable given
overall government and public support for environmental improvements.
5.    Flexibility in Implementation. The Bank and Borrower maintained an open dialogue throughout
Project implementation. This allowed rapid identification and approval of modifications in project scope
and design to reflect both rapid changes occurring in Poland and opportunities stemming from donor
interest to provide supplemental funding. During implementation changes occurred in the administrative
status of the Project Implementation Unit (PIU), adjustments were made in implementation schedules due
to periodic problems with availability of local counterpart funds, and the Project was enhanced and
expanded through cost savings and grant funds from donors.
B.    Achievement of Project Objectives
6.    Overview. The Project successfully achieved its overall institutional development and physical
objectives. This was especially the case with regard to institutional strengthening, human resources
development, adoption of innovative environmental management approaches and the use of new
technologies. In addition, the Project helped develop, on a demonstration basis, several complementary
institutions at the national and regional level with capacity to collect, analyze and disseminate high
quality environmental data. Major activities were conducted in Katowice and Krakow, while limited
specialized support and training was provided to Legnica. The design of the Project proved to be
appropriate for achieving the objectives. The Memorandum of the President did not provide criteria for
judging the achievement of the objectives; however, the primary outputs were quantified. The Project did
not include measures to address macroeconomic or financial objectives, poverty or other social
objectives, or private sector development. As a technical assistance project , it was not subject to
calculation of economic or financial rates of return.
7.    Project Management and Coordination. The PIU structure, established under the Project and
further expanded by the MoEnv and later the National Fund for Environmental Protection (National
Fund), provided a mechanism for coordination and oversight of multilateral and bilateral support. The
reputation gained by the PIU for effective management and supervision of foreign funds, including
efficient procurement and transparent accounting procedures, allowed for a sustained flow of funds to
Poland and their effective use for environmental improvements. The PIU was complemented by a set of
Local Implementation Units (LIUs) which coordinated activities at the local level and supported the
decentralization of planning and management activities. The provision of office equipment, including
computer hardware/software, fax machines, photocopiers and phones, etc., contributed to effective staff
performance in the PIU and LIUs. During project implementation, the PIU was transferred from MoENV
to the National Fund. The Bank accompanied this critical period constructively.
8.    Component 1 - Management Systems and Specialized Support. The Component supported a
series of complementary measures to assist the MoEnv and cooperating parties in the development of
new management systems and preparation of model studies. This component was modified during
implementation to meet emerging priorities of the MoEnv, in which emphasis was placed on a major
review of the structure and functions of the MoEnv and its research institutes; review of its regulatory and
enforcement programs; evaluation of the use of economic incentives; assessment of communication and



- 3 -
information technology requirements; special studies on management of saline water from coal mines and
advisory support for management of mineral and petroleum leasing. Through a cooperation agreement
with the Ministry of Health which served as the implementing agency, activities were undertaken to
modernize its ability to evaluate environmental health risks and support was provided for preparation of
studies identifying areas of high environmental health risk. The component also included preparation of
model studies for management of municipal and hazardous waste. With project savings and through
bilateral support, the component funded full computerization and installation of a modern telephone
system in the MoEnv. Major advisory support and funding was provided by the United States with
supplemental support from the Netherlands and World Health Organization.
9.    Component 2 - Industrial Efficiency and Environmental Reviews. Through a cooperation
agreement with the Ministry of Industry and Trade which served as the implementing agency, the Project
supported the introduction of environmental audit techniques in Poland, trained 8"trainers" and 130 local
specialists through practical field based courses, and prepared a series of 22 full and 18 training audits for
major industrial and energy facilities in excess of that anticipated. Specialized training at facilities in
Denmark, Sweden and the United States was received by 34 Polish specialists. While legislation requiring
environmental audits has not been approved by the Parliament to date, a number of the recommendations
made in the audits are being implemented, personnel trained under the program are using their skills in
their current positions and some are working as auditors outside Poland. A review prepared in late 1994
found that US $5.0 million had been invested at that point by participating industries in implementation of
recommendations from audits. It is anticipated that this trend has continued with the continued recovery
of the Polish economy. This component was complemented by coordinated operational and training
activities and industrial audits funded by Norway and the United States. The cooperation between the
Ministry of Industry and the MOEnv, which was established during the implementation of this
component, has unfortunately not continued after the completion of this component; the Borrower has not
been able to maintain this important objective of the project.
10.   Component 3 - Air Quality Management. This component established a modern system of air
quality monitoring, linked to environmental management programs, for the Katowice and Krakow
regions. A network of fully compatible air quality monitoring stations was implemented with 10 stations
in Katowice region with Project funding, 2 additional stations in Katowice region with supplemental
Polish funding and 6 stations in Krakow region with funding from the United States. A comprehensive
inventory of sources of air pollution was prepared, a review of risks conducted, a data bank of pollution
measurements established, and operational management plans developed. Significant support was
provided to strengthen the institutional and technical capacities of implementing organizations in
Katowice and Krakow. Polish experts participated extensively in preparation of design studies and
development of models for system operation. An emergency air pollution warning system was introduced
in Krakow and public information programs established in Katowice and Krakow. The component
included technical support from Italy, the Netherlands and United States, and major investment support
from the National Fund and United States.
11.   Component 4 - Water Resources Management. This component supported demonstration of an
integrated approach to water resources management in the Upper Vistula River Basin, and establishment
of Regional Water Management Boards (RWMBs) in Katowice and Krakow. Three complete Geographic
Information System (GIS) facilities were developed in the RWMBs and in Institute of Meteorology and
Water Management in Warsaw. It also supported modernized environmental laboratories in Katowice and
Tarnow and introduced new computer based quality control systems in these laboratories. New
techniques for groundwater monitoring were demonstrated on an operational level, and 10 emergency
warning stations and a flood forecasting and management system were established. A successful program



-4 -
was developed for leak detection and control. An in-country training in regional water resources planning
and management was conducted for 45 specialists from all of the RWMBs in Poland. International
training in selected issues was provided in France, the Netherlands, Germany, Switzerland and United
Kingdom for 65 Polish specialists. The component included technical support from France and Sweden,
and major investment support from the National Fund, EU (Phare) and Sweden.
12.   Procurement and Disbursement Skills. An important achievement of the Project was the
successful introduction and general adoption of competitive and transparent procurement procedures
which led to substantial cost savings. Polish counterparts successfully learned to prepare technical
specifications, terms of reference, tender documents, and contracts, and developed negotiation and
contract supervision skills. They also established procedures for preparation of procurement documents
and review of proposals by teams of experts from the PIU and cooperating organizations. The
disbursement staff of the PIU also received substantial training in disbursement and general accounting.
C.    Major Factors Affecting the Project
13.   Extension of Closing Date. While disbursements generally followed the Project Disbursement
Plan, the closing date for the Project was extended to December 31, 1996. Two extensions were required
to allow for implementation of an enhanced program of Project supported activities funded with savings
realized through competitive procurement procedures and as a result of supplementary grant resources
from EU (Phare) and bilateral donors.
14.   Factors Not Generally Subject to Government Control. Two legal changes had been anticipated
during project preparation which continue to be under review by the Polish Parliament:
(a)    Water Law. While Parliament has requested the MoEnv to prepare and propose
amendments to the existing water law, the absence of an updated law limits full adoption
of many planned administrative and financial features of the system of RWMBs
established by MoEnv in 1990. This situation has affected all the RWMBs and
influenced availability of direct financing of the RWMBs in Katowice and Krakow
developed under the project. Under an amended law, these offices, which are able to
perform a wide range of functions, would not be dependent, as they currently are, on
multiple sources of funding. It is not clear, if and when the Water Law will pass
Parliament.
(b)    Mandated Audits. The MoEnv has proposed that the new environment law include
provisions for routine environmental audits of industrial facilities. If such legislation
were enacted, the public and private sector auditors trained and licensed under the Project
would be available to fully utilize their skills as originally anticipated by the Government.
In the medium-term, implementation of the EU Directive on Integrated Pollution
Prevention and Control (IPPC) and expanded interest of accreditation by industries by
the International Standards Organization will increase the demand for preparation of
industrial audits and result in expanded implementation of their recommendations.
15.   Factors Subject to Government ControL The lack of timely availability of counterpart funds
from the national and local governments was the main factor in delaying implementation of selected
activities under Components 3 and 4. This affected the acquisition of land and construction of buildings
for the air and water monitoring stations. The PIU anticipated these changes and effectively made
adjustments in schedules for delivery and installation of equipment and training of personnel. The



- 5 -
problem of local financing was successfully resolved through mobilization of supplemental bilateral
resources by the PIU; provision of government contributions by the National Fund; and careful use of
significant cost savings realized under the competitive procurement process. An unanticipated problem
was a decision by Polish customs authorities in 1992 to impose duties on scientific equipment, which had
not previously been the case. This delayed delivery and installation of selected equipment until the
MoEnv was able to resolve this issue in its favor.
16.       Factors Subject to Implementing Agencies' ControL Implementation of the Project was not
adversely affected by any factors under the control of the MoEnv or other cooperating parties. Project
implementation was structured to effectively involve representatives of all concerned parties on a regular
basis. This was greatly facilitated by the appointment of four full-time component coordinators within the
PIU. One innovation in Project implementation was the conduct of coordination meetings on a rotational
basis at different locations: While the PIU had overall responsibility for procurement, it systematically
involved all cooperating parties in all phases of the procurement process.
D.    Project Sustainability
17.   Overview. It is likely that Project achievements will be sustained by the MoEnv and cooperating
parties given their continued commitment, strengthened institutions with improved planning and
management skills, and the considerable interest of key professional and technical staff in the
continuation of project initiated activities. A strong potential exists for continued financial support from
the MoEnv, cooperating agencies, the National Fund and Wojewodship Environment Funds which
collectively have significant resources with which to pay staff salaries, meet operation and maintenance
costs and to support new activities and investments on a phased basis. It is important to note that the
cooperating agencies have already mobilized funds, from traditional and non-traditional sources, to
undertake project related activities and to upgrade and enhance monitoring systems and equipment
provided under the Project. The Environmental Laboratory in Katowice, which operates under special
authority on a semi-commercial basis, and the regional leak detection program have established markets
for their services and should be sustainable under current conditions in Poland.
E.    Bank Performance
18.   Introduction. The overall performance of the Bank in all stages of the Project was highly
satisfactory. Project preparation took place on a compressed cycle with a combined identification and
preparation mission in September 1989, followed by an appraisal mission in November 1989. Following
Board Approval in April 1990, the implementation of Project proceeded smoothly.
19.   Identifcation and Preparation. The Project was developed consistent with the established
priorities of the Government of Poland and the Bank. Identification and preparation was undertaken as an
element of ajoint Polish-Bank field based review of major environmental issues. The Project was the first
of its kind in the ECA Region and represented an innovative approach in addressing environmental issues
as an integral part of the economic transformation process. Rather than focus on large scale investments,
the joint Polish-Bank review identified the need to strengthen environmental management capacity at the
national and local level in priority areas under environmental stress. The Project provided a range of
incentives to the participants including development of management and professional skills; access to
new technologies; and opportunities for formal and informal training within and outside Poland.



- 6 -
20.    Team Development. The identification/preparation process was used to establish an effective
interdisciplinary team of Polish and international specialists. The Polish team members were nationally
recognized experts with broad experience in their field of expertise who had a deep commitment to
achieving successful results. Bank staff and consultants were carefully selected for their professional
knowledge, experience in environmental issues, and ability to work effectively with counterpart
personnel. The quality of the team, strong interest of all cooperating parties and high level commitment
allowed preparation to be successfully completed in a short period of time.
21.   AppraisaL The Polish and international team which participated in the identification/preparation
mission continued to work together during appraisal and was expanded to include additional specialists in
key technical areas and procurement. The use of the same core team permitted more effective use of time,
higher quality design of components and faster agreements between the parties. The ability of Polish
experts to undertake management, scientific and technical aspects of the Project was confirmed during
appraisal. During the period between the identification/preparation and appraisal a senior local consultant
provided interface support between Polish authorities and the Bank.
22.    Working Papers and Procurement Packages. During appraisal detailed working papers and
procurement packages were developed for each component, including descriptions of activities,
implementation and procurement plans, cost tables, and an illustrative schedule. These were key tools for
the PIU Director, Project Coordinators and their counterparts in the cooperating agencies. The plans were
used by the PIU for organization of activities and for tracking implementation progress. Formal training
of Borrower personnel in Bank procurement and disbursement processes was also initiated. During the
appraisal the Borrower and Bank identified and defined Project needs in goods and services, packaged
them in suitable contracts, agreed on appropriate procurement methods and developed detailed
procurement plans. These efforts allowed the PIU to start procurement activities immediately after loan
effectiveness.
23.   Resource Mobilization. The Project was designed to provide adequate funding for a series of
complementary demonstration activities that could be expanded if supplemental funds became available
from EU (Phare) and bilateral donors. It was agreed during appraisal that the Government would have the
option of using EU (Phare) and bilateral grants to fund Bank approved elements of the Project. The
appraisal team received support from the Governments of France, Sweden and the United States. In
conjunction with the appraisal mission, the Government of Poland and the Bank held consultations
concerning the Project with representatives of various donor organizations.
24.   Supervision. Bank management recognized that the project would require extensive supervision,
especially during the early phases of implementation, and made adequate provision for use of both Bank
staff and consultants for this purpose. In particular, special resources were allocated for the start-up phase
so that Bank staff and senior level Polish experts could facilitate establishment of an effective
management structure and launch the components. Once the Resident Mission was established in
Warsaw, regular support was also provided by the specialist assigned to coordinate energy and
environmental activities. Furthermore, the PIU allocated funds to retain senior-level project advisors who
were Polish expatriates with significant operational experience in Western Europe and North America.
These advisors provided an interface between the Polish and OECD countries' experience in management
and technical aspects of project implementation.
25.   Mid-Term Review. The mid-term review was conducted by a joint PIU and Bank team that
included individuals involved in the preparation and appraisal process. The review noted the significant
progress achieved in strengthening institutions and implementing technical aspects of the components.



-7 -
The major issues identified during the mid-term review included: the timely availability of local currency
for implementation of.components 3 and 4, which was addressed through provision of supplemental
funding from the National Fund and EU (Phare); and the need to develop procedures to allow the MoEnv
to legally transfer ownership of the equipment procured under the project to Wojewodship governments,
RWMBs, and environmental laboratories.
26.   Reporting. The PIU  submitted progress reports regularly on implementation progress,
procurement and disbursement activities. The highly interactive relationship between the Borrower and
Bank staff responsible for the project led to extensive and regular formal and informal communications
that assisted in early identification and resolution of potential implementation issues. The ratings provided
in Form 590 accurately reflected the implementation status of the project. As the Project proceeded, Bank
task managers and other specialists worked closely with PIU staff to adjust the scope of activities in
different components, allowing more effective implementation and incorporation of lessons learned.
F.    Borrower Performance
27.   Project Preparation. Overall performance of the Borrower in all stages of the Project was highly
satisfactory. The Project has greatly benefited from the sustained strong commitment of the MoEnv,
National Fund and the cooperating parties throughout preparation and implementation. The Borrower
allocated all necessary resources for Project preparation, and in full collaboration with the Bank, prepared
the required documentation on an accelerated basis. The direct leadership of the preparation process by
the Minister of Environment with active participation by the Deputy Governors of the concerned regions
demonstrated the high level of Borrower commitment. The GOP made available a wide range of highly
qualified specialists who worked as members of teams responsible for identification of priorities,
development of working documents and preparation of estimated budgets for local expenditures. An
innovative and helpful element of the preparation process, in 1989, was the series of review meetings
held in key locations, at which representatives of the MoEnv, cooperating parties and the Bank publicly
reviewed and discussed the scope and objectives of the Project with administrators, technical experts,
local NGOs and the media.
28.   Project Implementation.
(a)   Institutional Development. The MoEnv and cooperating parties were successful in
strengthening a series of institutions and developing a diverse range of professional
skills. The Project enabled a large number of Polish specialists to successfully adapt their
knowledge of science and technology to the types of environmental management issues
associated with an emerging market economy. Participating institutions at the national
and regional level successfully established modern management systems, adopted new
approaches, and effectively used new types of equipment in an operational context. The
Borrower successfully used competitive procurement, combined with careful
supervision, to achieve cost savings, later used to expand the Project. Significant skills in
donor coordination were developed, attracting additional funds to support the Project.
(b)    Physical Objectives. The physical objectives of the Project were met and exceeded,
through the significant cost savings and provision of supplemental funding from the
National Fund, EU (Phare) and bilateral donors. All Project supported equipment is
installed and operating, with the exception of two warning stations which will be installed



-8-
following completion of an on-going land acquisition process. Additional equipment,
beyond the original plans of the Project, has been procured and placed in operation.
(c)    Overall Implementation and Operation. The management units responsible for the
Project were fully effective in their implementation activities despite the significant
administrative and economic changes which occurred in Poland. A major factor in the
success of Project implementation was the general continuity of staff in the PIU and key
counterparts in implementing organizations. The PIU Director only changed twice during
Project implementation and in both cases the incumbent was succeeded by a highly
experienced deputy. All three technical components of the Project benefited significantly
from having the same PIU coordinator during their entire course of implementation.
Similar benefits in procurement and disbursement occurred due to the stability of
personnel responsible for them. The cooperative agreements with the Ministry of Health
and Ministry of Industry were successful in making these parties effective partners in the
Project. LIUs and RWMBs provided effective support for decentralization of the Project.
(d)    Counterpart Funds. The timely provision of counterpart funds was an issue which
emerged at the mid-point of Project implementation, reflecting the complex changes
occurring in the Polish economy and the development of new relationships between the
national and local governments. To address this problem, the PIU took a series of actions
including successful mobilization of funds from the National Fund and EU (Phare), well
designed revisions in delivery and installation schedules for equipment, and effective
work with local governments concerning the purchase of land required for air and water
monitoring stations.
G.    Assessment of Outcome
29.   The outcome of the Project is assessed as highly satisfactory since it achieved its major
objectives, exceeded its physical objectives and is highly likely to achieve sustainable development
results without major shortcomings. The Project provided the basis for accelerated demonstration and
adoption of new approaches to environmental management in Poland, strengthening of institutions to
support their implementation, and provision of new types of equipment for environmental management at
the field level. The availability of additional funds from cost savings and donor support allowed the
Project to exceed its anticipated physical objectives. In addition, the Project successfully introduced the
use of competitive bidding procedures and new financial management techniques that were adopted by
the participating organizations.
H.    Future Operations
30.   Plan for Future Operation. Future operation of the Project will be undertaken by a number of
implementing organizations on a decentralized basis. This will be reflected in the individual work plans
of the key organizations based in Katowice, Krakow, Tarnow and Warsaw, which were significantly
strengthened under the Project and have the critical human and material resources to undertake their
functions provided adequate funding is available for staff salaries, operational activities and equipment
operation and maintenance. Given the size of these units and their diverse functions it is not appropriate
for individual plans to be developed and reviewed by the Bank.



- 9 -
31.   In order to maximize Project benefits, it is recommended that the GOP undertake the following
actions:
(a)    Passage of Proposed Legislation. The Bank recommends that the MoEnv continue to
work with Parliament to secure the passage of the amended Water Law, in order to more
fully empower the operational and financial authority of the existing national system of
RWMBs.
(b)    Support for Operation and Maintenance. The Bank has asked the MoEnv and
cooperating organizations to fund the operation and maintenance of the equipment
provided and installed under the Project. The National Fund and Wojewodship
Environmental Funds should continue to provide adequate funding of air and water
monitoring systems and a portion of the costs of the environmental laboratories.
(c)    Tarnow Laboratory. The MoEnv should give serious consideration, as previously
recommended by the Bank, to authorizing the Tarnow Laboratory to operate under
regulations similar to those of the Katowice Laboratory. This would allow it to operate on
a semi-commercial basis and diversify its sources of funding. As the first fully accredited
environmental laboratory in Poland, the Tarnow Laboratory should expand its service
area and provide specialized testing services.
32.   Performance Indicators. To date the monitoring and evaluation of the Project has been done by
the PIU and later the National Fund. This has focused on implementation of institutional strengthening
activities, human resource development programs, and installation and effective use of specialized
equipment. In the future a revised set of indicators should be used by the National Fund to assess the
sustainability and further development of these investments. The key performance indicators
recommended for future monitoring and evaluation activities supported under the Project include:
(a)    National Fund. Sustained ability of the National Fund, as the successor organization to
the PIU, to effectively supervise and support Project assisted environmental management
initiatives;
(b)    Ministry of Environment. Continued effective operation and maintenance of computer,
telecommunication and GIS systems, including their upgrading and enhancement;
(c)    Environmental Departments and RWMBs in Katowice and Krakow. Maintenance of their
capacity to plan and undertake environmental management activities, effective use of
Project trained personnel and equipment, effective use of scientific and technical
knowledge in decision making;
(d)   Air Monitoring Systems in Katowice and Krakow. Continued effective operation and
maintenance of systems, expansion of coverage, enhancement of capacity and use of data
in decision making;
(e)    Water Monitoring and Flood Forecasting Systems in Upper Vistula River Basin.
Continued effective operation and maintenance of systems, expansion of coverage,
enhancement of capacity and use of data in decision making; and
(f)    Environmental Laboratories in Katowice and Tarnow. Continued effective operation and
maintenance of laboratories, sustained quality control programs, upgrading of their
analytical capacities and diversification of their range of clients.
33.   Recommended Bank Follow-Up



- 10-
(a)    Monitoring of Project Operation. The Bank has a significant interest in monitoring the
continued progress of selected elements of the Project in order to gain "lessons learned"
which can be transferred to other countries. It also has an interest in reviewing the
operation of the RWMBs following future passage of the amended Water Law given the
broad interest in this issue within ECA. It is recommended that Bank staff, in full
coordination with the MoEnv and National Fund, conduct field reviews of selected
activities in the future, if this is requested by the Government and included in the CAS.
(b)    Potential Follow-Up Projects.
(i)    Poland. Several potential follow-up projects have been identified by the MoEnv
and other parties that could be considered for Bank support. These activities
could be conducted as a second phase of the Environment Management Project,
as small lending operations, if requested by the Government and included in the
CAS; or as elements of related projects which are planned for Bank support.
Potential follow-up activities could be conducted at the national level, in the
Katowice and Krakow regions and in support of RWMBs in the Upper Vistula
River Basin or elsewhere with strong linkages to the EU accession process.
(ii)   ECA Region. A major opportunity for potential follow-up is for the Bank and
Poland to work together in transferring the experience gained from design and
implementation of the Project to other countries in ECA. Project supported
institutions have the capacity to provide practical training to personnel from other
countries. In addition, the monitoring systems and laboratories supported by the
Project provide operational examples of modem environmental management
systems developed under representative conditions in the ECA Region. This
experience also provides an opportunity to demonstrate decentralized approaches
to environmental management in a practical manner.
(c)    Future OED Evaluation. The demonstration nature of the Project makes future impact
evaluation by OED of interest to a number of parties within and outside the Bank. The
optimum timing of an evaluation would be in the year 2000 since this would allow for
medium-term review of: (a) sustainability of institutional development activities
supported by the Project; and (b) assessment of the ability of cooperating parties to
effectively utilize, maintain and enhance the analytical and monitoring systems.
I.     Key Lessons Learned
34.   Development of a Shared Vision. The Project benefited significantly from development of a
shared vision between the Borrower and the Bank concerning the challenges of integrating environment
into the economic transition process. This provided the critical basis for the design and implementation of
a Project which focused on "cooperation" rather than "assistance." The shared vision was reinforced by
the early development and continued maintenance of good interpersonal relationships and effective
communications between key Borrower and Bank personnel.
35.   High Level Commitmentfrom the Borrower and Bank. The sustained high level commitment by
the Borrower and the Bank was critical to the success of the Project. The Borrower, despite several
successive Ministers of Environment and changes in local governments, remained strongly committed to
the objectives of the Project. Bank management provided adequate resources during all stages of the
Project, including supervision, to maintain a core "project team" of experienced Bank staff and highly



qualified consultants. The willingness of the Borrower to establish an autonomous PIU and LIUs allowed
for development of dedicated teams who focused their efforts on Project implementation;
36.   Clear Identification of Institutional and Professional Interests. Project preparation was based
on a field review process which led to clear identification of institutional and professional interests and
their effective involvement in the process. An important element was the extensive use of technical
review meetings which facilitated the participation of a broad range of representatives from cooperating
agencies in the preparation process and reduced potential conflict in the implementation phase. Project
preparation included the use of senior local experts who were highly effective in facilitating an on-going
dialogue on key issues and resolving outstanding issues.
37.   Selection and Continuity of Key Staff A major factor contributing to the sustained quality of the
Project during all phases of design and implementation was the careful selection of the primary Borrower
and Bank staff and their high level of continuity. The Polish experts who worked on the Project were
chosen for their demonstrated capabilities, interest in learning and their commitment. These values were
reinforced by incentives including opportunities for professional development, in Poland and abroad.
38.   Development of Work Plans. Both design and implementation were facilitated by the cooperative
development of work plans; including schedules, budgets and procurement plans. Joint preparation of
these work plans allowed the Borrower and the Bank to have a clear understanding of the common goals
and key actions necessary to achieve successful implementation. The plans provided a framework for
Project management and allowed for clear understanding of the modifications and adjustments made
during the course of implementation.
39.   Intensive Supportfor Early Project Implementation. In a technical assistance project, the Bank
should expect that intensive support will be required in the early phases of implementation. The
successful start-up of the Project involved extensive use of experienced Bank technical and procurement
staff. This support proved to be critical in making the transition from the "design phase" to the
"implementation phase." It also assisted in strengthening the PIU, LIUs and RMWBs through advisory
support and informal training. The use of carefully selected expatriate consultants of Polish origin was
also very successful in addressing key technical issues.
40.   Accelerated and Enhanced Implementation. Bank support for technical assistance projects and
activities can accelerate the rate at which Borrowers can prepare and implement their environmental
management programs and serve as a catalyst for the mobilization of donor resources. Participation of the
Bank can assist in the identification of phased programs of improvements which can be realized within
financial constraints and serve to facilitate the adoption of measures for quality control of data developed
from monitoring systems and environmental laboratories.
41.    Timely Availability of Counterpart Funds. It should be anticipated, given the dynamic
conditions in countries in economic transition, that the timely availability of counterpart funds would be a
problem even when the Government is highly committed to the Project. Careful monitoring of the
availability of such funds allows for adjustments in delivery of major equipment to avoid unnecessary
storage, demurrage and potential damage prior to customs clearance and installation. During Project
preparation and implementation it is important to regularly review potential sources of supplemental
funding which could substitute for local counterpart funds as necessary.
42.   Procurement and Disbursement. The high level of attention paid to procurement and
disbursement issues in the appraisal process and initial phase of the Project, including the training of



- 12-
Borrower staff and preparation of procurement plans, had a significant positive impact on the quality of
implementation and resulted in cost savings which allowed an expansion of the Project's scope.
Participation of cooperating parties in all phases of procurement resulted in greater ownership of Project
supported activities. The continuous cooperation between Project and Bank procurement staff allowed for
upgrading of Polish skills on an incremental basis and introduction of new techniques.
43.   Changes in Taxes and Customs Duties. Many countries in economic transition are experiencing
changes in tax codes and the application of customs duties which may affect the implementation of
projects by increasing requirements for counterpart funds to meet these costs. Cost estimates for projects
should include adequate contingencies in the local budget to cover these potential changes and
developments should be monitored as part of the supervision process.
44.   From Applied Research to Environmental Management. The Project clearly demonstrated that
it is possible in the ECA context, when strong professional interest exists and resources are well targeted,
to shift the focus of institutions and individuals from applied research to environmental management. In
the case of Poland, the strong existing knowledge of science and technology available at the start of the
Project allowed the successful assimilation management skills, new approaches to analysis and the
effective use of new equipment.
45.   Compression of the Project Cycle. The Project demonstrated that it is possible to compress the
cycle for development of technical assistance projects if their is strong Government commitment and the
Bank and Borrower are both able to provide highly qualified professional experts who are able to work
effectively together. Bank support for this type of Project can accelerate the design and implementation of
Borrower programs to achieve long-term objectives and contribute to the quality and level of innovation
in such programs.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
POLAND
ENVIRONMENT MANAGEMENT PROJECT
(Loan 3190 POL)
PART II: STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1:   Summary of Assessments
Table 2:   Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3:   Project Timetable
Table 4:   Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5:   Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6:   Key Indicators for Project Operation
Table 7:    Studies Included in Project
Table 8A:  Project Costs
Table 8B:  Project Financing
Table 9:   Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 10:  Status of Legal Convenants
Table I 1:  Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table 12:  Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
ECA
C:\DATA\WB\POL-TA\ICR\1CR07.DOC
97/06104 10:18 AM



Table 1:         Summary of Assessments
A.  Achievement of Objectives           Substantial        Partial        Negligible     Not applicable
Macro Policies                         El              El                                la
Sector policies                                                         El 0  0
Financial objectives                   E11                              E l
Institutional development              El                               El               E 
Physical objectives                                                                     El1  g
Poverty reduction                       l              E                El 
Gender issues                          E               El               E                0
Other social objectives                                0                E                0
Environmental objectives               0               E                E                E
Public sector management               0               El               E                E
Private sector management              El               0               El 
Private sector development             E]                               ElE
Other (specify)                        nEE                                               0
B.   Project Sustainability               Likely          Unlikely        Uncertain
0               Ol               El
C.  Bank Performance                   Highly Satisf.    Satisfactory     Deficient      Not applicable
Identification / Preparation /         0               E                E                E
Appraisal
Supervision                                            El                                El
D.  Borrower Performance               Highly Satisf.    Satisfactory     Deficient      Not applicable
Preparation                            0               E                E                E
Implementation                         0               E                E                o
Covenant compliance                                    El
Operation                              0               El               El               El
E.  Assessment of Outcome               Highly Satisf.   Satisfactory    Unsatisfactory    Highly Unsatisf.
El                              El               El



Table 2:       Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/Credit Title               Purpose            Year of            Status
Approval
L32150 Polish Oil and Gas    Energy Development         1990      Implementation
Company
L33820 District Heating Entity   Heat Supply Restucturing  1991   Implementation
L33820 District Heating Entity   Heat Supply Restucturing  1991   Implementation
L33790 District Heating Entity  Heat Supply Restucturing  1991    Implementation
L33780 District Heating Entity   Heat Supply Restucturing  1991   Implementation
L34660 Republic of Poland    Health                     1992      Implementation
L36410 Govt. of Poland       Forestry Development       1994      Implementation
L39090 Republic of Poland    Katowice Heat Supply       1995      Implementation
L40321 Bielsko-Biala Aqua    Bielsko-Biala Water        1996      Implementation
SA
L40320 Bielsko- Biala Aqua    Bielsko- Biala Water      1996      Implementation
SA
L39590 Polish Power Grid     Power Transmission         1996      Implementation



Table 3:      Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle                   Date planned      Date actual
Identification (Executive Project Summary)  09/1989          09/1989
Appraisal                                   11/1989          11/1989
Negotiations                                03/1990          03/1990
Board Presentation                          04/1990          04/1990
Signing                                     05/1990          05/1990
Effectiveness                               07/1990          07/1990
Project completion (IDA credit only)
Credit closing *                            12/1994          12/1996
* Extension authorized to allow for expenditure of funds from cost savings due to use of
competitive procurement procedures



Table 4:       Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ thousands)
IBRD Fiscal Year       Appraisal Estimate             Actual  Actual As Percentage
(US$ Million)                       of Estimate
06/90
12/90                    .8                  .64                 3.5
06/91                   2.8                  .64                 3.5
12/91                   6.8                 1.00                 5.5
06/92                   10.8                3.49                19.3
12/92                  14.8                 7.45               41.4
06/93                   16.8                9.67                53.7
12/93                  17.0                10.45                58.1
06/94                   18.0               10.65                59.2
12/94                                      11.15                61.9
06/95                                      11.15                61.9
12/95                                      11.41                63.4
06/96                                      15.57                86.5
12/96                                      17.96                99.8
Notes:      1. Figures may not total due to rounding.
2. Original closing date: December 31, 1994. Revised closing date: December 31, 1996



Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation / page I
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Overall Project: Environment Management
Project Objectives:   To provide a framework for high priority environmental concerns and to support demonstration of a decentralized approach to environmental
management. To strengthen capacity in analysis and design of policy, regulatory, institutional and investment actions to improve environmental
quality.
Expected Cost:        US$27.3 mn of which US$18.0 million from World Bank loan.
Actual Expenditure:   US$24.9 mn of which US$18.0 mn from World Bank Loan; US$2.3 mn from counterpart funds; US$4.7 mn from international grant funding and
substantial amounts of in-kind support from international agencies.
Component 1: Policy, Management and Program Coordination
Component Objective:   To improve the Ministry of Environment's ability to perform its duties efficiently and effectively
Expected cost:        US$3.8 mn of which US$2.6 mn from World Bank loan
Actual Expenditure:   US$5.0 mn of which US$3.6 mn from World Bank loan; US$0.5 mn from counterpart funds; US$0.9 mn from US TDA grant; US$0.5 mn from US
EPA and support in kind from the Government of the Netherlands and the World Health Organisation.
Objective and description     Outputs                 Outputs Achieved                Impacts Expected                      Impacts Achieved
Expected
Activity A: Institutional Development
Objective: to improve      Improved work   (i) Comprehensive review of management   Increased efficiency of  Expected impacts achieved, although mechanisms
management of MoEnv --     program and          and organization of the MoEnv and its   local and national  were different from those originally planned, and
through a Policy Advisory  budget system;       associated research institutes prepared.   environmental   some of the outcomes were not fully realized.
Team to advise on the work    MIS operating;    This included a technology review and   programs; economic
program; budget and MIS;    monitoring          several topical studies. Computer and    incentives to reduce    (i) Env  implemented some of the procedural
development of a monitoring  strategy           telecommunications equipment based    environmental            recommendations, but not those relating to the
strategy, regulations and  developed;           on recommendations purchased and     damage.                   reorganization the Ministry. Several changes of
economic policy.           criteria for         installed. A monitoring strategy was                           Minister reduced high-level commitment to
project              developed independently.                                       Mltrrdcdhg-ee   omtett
evaluation                                                                          major organizational changes.   The  new
Early in project           developed,                                                                          equipment improved  internal and  external
implementation, the scope of     P          (ii) Licencing system for Geological                               communications. Recommendations of certain
the activity was changed to                      Licence Office developed, staff trained,                      policy studies implemented or piloted (e.g.



Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation / page 2
Objective and description      Outputs                   Outputs Achieved                 Impacts Expected                        Impacts Achieved
Expected
meet the Ministry's changing                       equipment purchased. 3 model                                      pollution  fees  revised,  emissions  trading
management priorities.                             agreement for oil gas and mineral leases                          piloted).
developed and in use
(ii) Polish capacity to successfully negotiate major
(iii) Study on disposal of saline water from                          international contracts strengthened, ensuring
mines completed. Promotional                                     more favorable lease terms for the govemment.
seminars given for 89 mines and
institutes...
(iii) Perceived  impacts on  miners' employment
makes this issue politically difficult.   The
National Furd for Environmental Protection is
currently supporting implementation of related
investments.
Activity B: Environmental Health
Objective: to improve ability   * Quality     (i)  Cooperative agreement between         Better understanding    Expected impacts achieved  MoEnv is using health
to set accurate human health-  control program     Ministry of Health (MOH) and MoEnv   of priorities for       data to set priorities and MOH now able to verify and
based environmental         in operation by        developed and implemented.            environmental policies  update earlier assessments of environmental health
priorities -- through       end 1991.                                                    and investments;       risks. MoEnv and MOH both have access to reliable
improving the quality control                                                           improved ability to     data that meets international standards. MOH staff
system for environmental                      (ii) Quality control study completed and   detect and treat       have increased professional capacity and have access
monitoring and reporting;   h Improved             seminarconducted 1992. System         environmental         to specialized analytical tools.
analyzing health effects of    infrm satin                                               illnesses.
areas of environmental      inomtn
areas of environsystem ilrmbn                                                                            (i)  Improved integration of work of MoEnv and
hazards; and training chronic  operain        (iii) Study on health impacts of                                       mov intran as   StrengthEne   and
disease epidemiologists.     1992.                environmental pollution and training                              relationship with WH      SeO.
abroad completed.
* Chronic         .        .                .                                      (ii) Quality  control  system   stimulated  MOH
d(sease               in 1992C                                                         initiative to rationalize government laboratory
epidemiologists                                                                        system. based on those labs that are performing
trained and                                                                            well.
twinned.         (v) Chronic disease epidemiologists trained
and twinned.
Activity C: Solid and Hazardous Waste



Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation / page 3
Objective and description      Outputs                   Outputs Achieved                 Impacts Expected                        Impacts Achieved
Expected
Objective: to develop cost-    Least cost     (i)  Five model studies developed for use in   Blueprint for      Expected impacts partially achieved  Developing a
effective strategy for      investment             planned investment projects: municipal  implementing cost-   national strategy was not possible or appropriate
handling municipal and      strategies             waste in Warsaw; program for isolating  effective systems to  given the changing legal situation. Activity did result
hazardous solid waste       developed for          toxic wastes in Lodz; methane recovery   manage solid waste  in model studies for cost-effective implementation of
three cities          in Krakow; management of sludges in    and reduce chemical    hazardous and solid waste projects.
In the early stages of      (Warsaw, Tychy        Katowice steelworks; and water and     hazards; rational land-
implementation, legal       and Leczya) for        wastewater management in Zgierz.      use planning           Parliament is still considering legislation that will
authority for waste shifted  subsequent                                                                         delineate formal levels of responsibility for waste, at
from national to local      replcation        (ii) Polish specialists trained in preparing                      which  point a national strategy  may  become
governments. The focus of    elsewhere             solid waste management studies through                       appropriate again.
the activity thus changed to                       membership in consultant teams and
preparing model studies for                        participation in seminars.
local authority
implementation..



Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation / page 4
Component 2: Industrial Efficiency and Environment Reviews
Component objective:   To reduce harmful emissions from major polluting industries
Expected cost:         US$3.4 mn of which US$3.0 mn from World Bank loan
Actual expenditure     US$3.0 mn of which US$3.0 mn from World Bank loan; US$0.001 mn from counterpart funds. Component coordinated with complementary programs
supported by Norway and the United States
Objective and description   Outputs Expected            Outputs Achieved                 Impacts Expected                         Impacts Achieved
Activity A: Training in Environmental Reviews
Objective: improve local     4 local trainers and    (i)  Cooperative agreement    Increased environmental benefits    Expected impacts achieved.   Component
capacity to design industrial    120 environment       established with Ministry of   from industrial restructuring  supported dissemination of international good
restructuring programs that    review staff available  Industry (MOI), who         programs.                        practice   in  industrial   environmental
also improve environmental    to industry by mid      supervised component                                          management.   It encouraged  substantial
performance -- through       1992.                     implementation .                                             voluntary   investment   in    pollution
training in industrial                                                                                              management.  It also improved ability and
efficiency and environmental                      (ii) 8 trainers and 124 Polish                                    readiness of MOI to integrate environmental
reviews.                                               experts trained                                              issues into their operations and provided
reliable  information  to  environmental
authorities for environmental policy-making.
(iii) 7 seminars for managers of
participating industries.
Activity B: Environmental Reviews of Highly-Polluting Industries
Objective: to assist         * Diagnostic reviews  * Diagnostic reviews conducted in  * Diagnostic reviews replicated in  Expected impacts achieved  11 of the 30
economically viable but     for 10 industrial     10 plants.                       other enterprises in the sector.  plants  that underwent detailed  reviews
highly-polluting enterprises  enterprises available                                                                 voluntarily  implerhented  the  resulting
identify least cost ways to  by mid-1992.            Dtiereiwcodtdinealdrvesldtoeued recommendations. Investments ranged from
move into compliance with    b2* Detailed reviewsconductedin                        i ad  ater pst l d to d tuc     US$18,000 to US$3,700,000. mostly ftnanced
environmental standards --   * Detailed reviews                                    of solid wastes resulting from   locally.   The  implementation  rate  was
through conducting model     (investment action                                    improved operating practices in    substantially higher for the reviews conducted
diagnostic and detailed      plans) for 12        *Trainees conducted reviews in    major polluting industries,     by the trainees, as the reviewers were usually



Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation / page 5
Objective and description     Outputs Expected             Outputs Achieved                   Impacts Expected                           Impacts Achieved
reviews in selected enterprises  industrial enterprises   an additional 18 plants by April                                 employed by the plant and the level of
to serve as a basis for       available by mid-      93.                                * Improved potential for           involvement was therefore higher.  These
subsequent replication.        1992.                                                    intemationalfinancialsupportfor   results date from  1994. With the improved
Polish industry.                  economic  situation  at present, additional
plants   may   have   implemented   the
recommendations.
Activity C: Training Abroad
Objective: to improve         About 50 industry      * 49 people received 3-4 weeks     Industry and government staff      Expected impacts achieved    The project
interaction between industry    and government staff  training abroad (USA, Denmark,    exposed to practices and           supported   effective   dissemination    of
and government on design and  receive training in    Sweden).                           procedures of agencies and         international good practice of environmental
enforcement of environmental  environmental                                             enterprises in other countries thus   management in industry.
regulations -- through foreign    agencies and         Promotional publications         able to play a more active and
training in industrial pollution   industrial enterprises    pred and  pu  I    for I80   informed role in environmental   The project also supported a cadre of trained
management and control.       in selected foreign    participants from industry, banks,   policy-making and enforcement in .d P eeie kd ps   teiohe li  seor  n
countries by mid-     public sector, etc..                                                  usg ther skills in the public sector, in
1992.                                                                                      industry  and  in  the  growing  private
environmental consulting sector, according to
a follow-up study carried out in 1994.



Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation / page 6
Component 3: Air Quality Management
Component objective:   To reduce impacts on public health from air pollution, initially by supporting the development of a comprehensive air pollution abatement strategy for
the Katowice and Krakow region.
Expected cost:        US$6.4 mn of which US$4.5 mn from Bank loan
Actual cost:          US$ 3.6 mn of which US$2.9 from Bank loan, US$0.7 mn from counterpart funding and US$ 1 mn from US EPA. In-kind assistance received from the
Netherlands, Italy and US EPA
Objective and         Outputs Expected                    Outputs Achieved                 Impacts Expected                 Impacts Achieved
description
Activity A: Ambient Air Quality Monitoring System
To provide         Installation of a 10 station  * 16 automatic monitoring stations installed and    Real time air quality   Expected impacts achieved Project financed
information for    monitoring network in       in operation. 2 additional stations installed and  management system   the establishment of one of the largest
policy-making and    Katowice and a (bilaterally-    operating with local finance.          established,         automatic air monitoring systems in Europe,
to protect public  funded) 6 station monitoring                                             contributing to local   which allows effective management of highly
health from air    network in Krakow by mid-                          .                     and national         polluted  airshed.   Specific  enforcement
pollution -- through   1991.                   enhancementeo models.aenvironmental policy. activities regularly result from  information
developing a real-                                                                                               now available.  Local authorities also use
time ambient air                                                                                                 monitoring  information  to  change  the
quality monitoring                                                                                               operation of polluting plants in high pollution
system in the                                                                                                    periods. The information also contributes to
Katowice-Krakow                                                                                                  environmental policy-making.
region.
Hardware and software fully compatible to
allow future integration of systems in
Katowice and Krakow.
Activity B: Point Source Pollution
To promote         * 4 mobile units and manual   * 4 mobile units in operation and 20 teams trained  * Improved control   Expected Impacts Achieved. Monitoring and
reduction of point    equipment by mid-1991.   by end- 1992.                                of point sources    survey information used for policy-making
source air pollution                                                                        leading to specific    and enforcement activities. Monitoring data
-- through emission    .4 local survey teams     By mid-1992, emissions inventories conducted   enforcement actions.  used for establishing exact levels of pollution



Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation / page 7
Objective and         Outputs Expected                      Outputs Achieved                   Impacts Expected                   Impacts Achieved
description
monitoring and      trained, 80 emissions        for 36 enterprises in Katowice and 26 in Krakow                     fees, rather than basing fees on calculations.
plant-specific      inventories and control                                                       increased
emission control    evaluations conducted by mid-     ....*Inrae
semissionycontrol   evaluations conducted by*mid   . Emissions database in place and in use.   investment in control  Specific (local and foreign) investment in
surveys.            1991.                                                                       and prevention of    pollution prevention and control has been
industrial air       substantial.
pollution, particularly
through increased
support from the
international
community.
Activity C: Training
To increase local   * 100 staff trained locally and  (i)  20 people trained locally             Improved design and   Expected Impacts Achieved.
capacity for        20 trained abroad by end                                                    implementation of air  Polish scientific and technical personnel have
managing air quality  1992.                      (ii) Smog emergency response system established  quality management   developed new  skills in system  design,
management                                           in Krakow including public warnings of     programs.            operation, maintenance and analysis.
programS -- through   . Equipment and training to    extreme smog conditions, and strategy for
local and foreign
training in air     improve capacity for             emergency mitigation measures. Similar     Increased integration   Emergency    smog    warning    system
quality management  dispersion modeling, regional    system under development in Katowice.      of health effects in air  demonstrated  successfully  and  currently
techniques.         air modeling and management                                                 quality management   being replicated in Katowice.
techniusdecisions, by end-1992.  (iii) ystems for permanent public display of real-   decisions.
time information on ambient pollution                          Extensive  media  interest  on  ambient
* Installation and operation of  concentrations established in Krakow and                        concentrations.
a management system for          Katowice.
extreme air quality conditions
(smog alerts) by end- 1992.  (iv) Health risk assessment prepared.
* Health risk assessment
available by end-1992.
Activity D: Air Pollution Control Strategy
To develop a policy   Least cost analysis available    S02 emission, dispersion and optimization model  Increased    Expected Impacts partially achieved  Local
and investment      for review by late 1992.     developed for investments in air quality control,   international support  and foreign financing  for investment in



Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation / page 8
Objective and         Outputs Expected                     Outputs Achieved                  Impacts Expected                  Impacts Achieved
description
strategy for regional                           which enables the introduction of tradeable   for investment in air   pollution prevention and control has been
air pollution control.                          emission permits.                             pollution            substantial.
management.
Pilot tradeable permit scheme adopted in
Katowice area, with some success, but not
adopted nationally.
Activity E: Weather
Forecasting
Additional                                      * Purchase and installation of a weather radar                     Authorities now have the capacity to conduct
equipment procured                              system, 1996.                                                      advanced weather forecasting in real time and
through savings and                                                                                                ability to integrate the information into air
contingency budget.                             * Purchase of equipment for regional weather                       pollution management activities, particularly
forecasting centers, 1995.                                        for smog alerts.



Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation / page 9
Component 4. Water Resou-ces Management
Component Objective:   To improve the quality of surface and ground water, to improve efficiency of investments in water pollution control and in water supply by increasing
the regional authorities' capacity to manage water resources.
Expected cost:         US$ 9.4 mn of which US$5.7 mn from Bank loan
Actual Expenditure:    US$12.0 mn of which US$8.4 from Bank loan; US$1.9 mn from counterpart funds; US$1.2 mn from EU-Phare; US$ 1.0 mn from the Government of
Sweden and in-kind support from the Governments of France and Sweden.
Objective and      Outputs Expected            Outputs Achieved              Impacts Expected                            Impacts Achieved
description
Activity A: Regional Water Management Boards
Increase economically   Two offices of a    * Offices established and operating in   * Increased capability  Expected impacts partially achieved  RWMBs functioning, but
and environmentally   water management  Katowice and Krakow with defined      to manage water        taking less of a role than expected.  National system of 7
efficient management   council for the    work programs, and functioning teams   resources of a specific   RWMBs has been established, although some units have
of water resources--    upper Vistula river  of qualified scientific, engineering and   catchment area  developed more rapidly than others. This is largely because
through establishment   basin by mid 1991  technical staff.                    efficiently.          Parliament has not yet approved MoEnv proposals to transfer
of a demonstration    to serve as models                                       * integrated river    authority for water management to RAWMBs, whose role and
Regional Water        for the rest of the    * Local training on regional water  basin approach to   responsibilities are thus restricted to basin planning  and
Management Boards    country.             resources planning and management    water resource        management.    The  voievodships  are  responsible  of
(RWMBs).                                 for 45 participants from a117 RWMBs    management           reinforcement, collection  of fees and  fines and  public
in Poland, and foreign training for 35    demonstrated in  investment decisions. The debate continues about the extent to
participants. Additional foreign course   Poland.          which RWMBs will become involved in the financial aspects of
trained 6 specialists in river basin  * Regional water     water management.
management.                          management
institutions adopted in
other parts of Poland.   Project activities exposed a large number of Polish experts from
the Upper Vistula River Basin and other areas to intemational
best practice.
Activity B: Water Monitoring and Leak Detection
Provide information   * Network of 20    (i)  Hydrometeorological station      * Enhanced capability  Expected impacts achieved
for making effective  monitoring              successfully established in     to manage quality and
water management      stations established    Krakow, personnel trained in     quantity of surface   (i)  Substantially improved ability to manage stored water to
policy -- through     by late 1991.           using equipment.                 and groundwater.          assess flood risks in real time, reduce flood impacts, and to



Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation / page 10
Objective and      Outputs Expected             Outputs Achieved              Impacts Expected                            Impacts Achieved
description
establishing a network                                                                                     take remedial action if floods do occur -- damage from 10
of water monitoring    * 4 sets of        (ii) en warning stations to monitor   * Reduced risk of          year flood experienced in 1996 was greatly reduced
stations and           equipment for           ambient water quality            contamination of           because of system.
developing a water     groundwater             continuously established and     domestic water
demand reduction       sampling.               operating and 12 personnel trained  supply.             (ii) Water quality monitoring system  enables authorities to
program.                                       in France in its operation. Eight                           protect municipal water supplies in the region.
* training and         additional stations will be       * Increased efficiency
equipment for          constructed using funds from      of water supply       (iii) Regular, reliable information available on groundwater
managing stream        savings and contingencies by June  facilities and reduced    quality for use in policy-making.
flow, especially        1997.                            demand for new
floods.                                                  supply infrastructure.   (iv) unicipal authorities and utilities aware of importance of
reducing unaccounted for water.   Demand  for leak
* 11 sets of       (iii) Four mobile groundwater                                    detection services growing. Problems diagnosed in most
equipment for          monitoring stations in place by                              systems and leakage rates reduced in many.
monitoring              1993.
municipal and
industrial effluents
(iv) Leak measurement equipment and
* leak detection       training for 12 people installed by
and demand              1991 and expanded in 1994. Leak
reduction program      detection team works with
in operation by        municipal utilities to demonstrate
early 1991.            techniques, on semi-commercial
basis. 16 utilities have
commissioned specific leak
detection studies.
Activity C: Environmental Laboratories and GIS Systems
Improve information    * Upgrading 2      * Laboratory designs prepared,        Increased capability to  Fxpected impacts achieved.   High quality, laboratories in
available to policy    environmental      training provided on laboratory       assess causes and      operation and undertaking standardized, reliable tests, with
makers, plant         laboratories by     management, equipment obtained, and   develop strategies to    effective quality control for analytical procedures and data
managers, and          mid 1992.          Laboratory Infonrmation Management    control water and air    management.   Equipment is being  properly  maintained.
enforcement offices --                    System (LIMS) installed to ensure     pollution.             Laboratory in Tarnow received ISO 9000 certification and that
through establishing   * Creating 3 GIS    consistency of results. Suppliers                          in Katowice operating on a semi-commercial basis.
environmental          centers by late    trained staff in operation and
laboratories and       1991.              maintenance of equipment.
The Institute of Meteorology and Water Resources in Warsaw
geographic
infonnation systems.    * Establishing an    * 3 GIS systems installed and in                         and both RWMBs effectively using GIS tools for planning.



Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation / page 11
Objective and     Outputs Expected            Outputs Achieved             Impacts Expected                          Impacts Achieved
description
public awareness    operation (Warsaw, Katowice and                         analysis, decision-support and presentation of studies and data.
program           Krakow) by early 1993.                                    All 3 systems being properly maintained and the Institute of
Meteorology has upgraded its system with its own finance.
Systems are being used as an integral part of water resources
planning and management activities.
Activity D: Investment Analysis
Support development   Least cost analysis  Several management plans completed    Potential for more  Expected impacts partially achieved   Technical assessment
of a strategy for     available by late    by RWMBs in Katowice and Krakow.   rapid disbursement of  achieved. Investment strategy not appropriate without passage
efficient investments in  1992                                               international funds to   of amended water law. RWMBs supporting planning and local
water pollution control                 Overall evaluation of investments for    control water pollution  investment decisions on a sub-basin level in cooperation with
-- through a least cost                 Vistula Basin prepared at pre-feasibility                 local governments.
policy and investment                    level prepared under Baltic Sea
analysis.                               Environment Programme.



Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation / page 11
Objective and     Outputs Expected            Outputs Achieved             Impacts Expected                          Impacts Achieved
description
public awareness    operation (Warsaw, Katowice and                         analysis, decision-support and presentation of studies and data.
program           Krakow) by early 1993.                                    All 3 systems being properly maintained and the Institute of
Meteorology has upgraded its system with its own finance.
Systems are being used as an integral part of water resources
planning and management activities.
Activity D: Investment Analysis
Support development   Least cost analysis  Several management plans completed    Potential for more  Expected impacts partially achieved   Technical assessment
of a strategy for     available by late    by RWMBs in Katowice and Krakow.   rapid disbursement of  achieved. Investment strategy not appropriate without passage
efficient investments in  1992                                               international funds to   of amended water law. RWMBs supporting planning and local
water pollution control                 Overall evaluation of investments for    control water pollution  investment decisions on a sub-basin level in cooperation with
-- through a least cost                 Vistula Basin prepared at pre-feasibility                 local governments.
policy and investment                    level prepared under Baltic Sea
analysis.                                Environment Programme.



Table 6:      Key Indicators for Project Operation
Included in Table 5



Table 7:      Most Important Studies Included in Project
COMPONENT 1:
I.    Reports on Ministry of Environment Managment Issues Prepared by United States Environmental
Protection Agency
2.     Report Prepared on Environmental Monitoring by RIVM of the Netherlands
3.     Reports Prepared by Ministry of Health on Environmental Health
4.     Reports on Geological Leasing
5.     Model Contract for Geological Leasing
6.     Reports on Saline Water Disposal
7.     Feasibility Studies for Hazardous and Solid Waste Management
COMPONENT 2:
1.    Training Manuals for Courses
2.     Diagnostic Audit Reports
3.     Detailed Audit Reports
4.     Training Audit Reports
5.     Power and Coal
Co-generation plant "LEG," Krakow
Co-generation plant "LUBIN," Lubin (Legnica)
Co-generation plant "BEDZIN," Bedzin (Katowice)
6.     Coke and Cement
Cement works "WIEK," Ogrodzieniec
Metal Works "SKAWINA," Krakow
Cement Works "PODGRODZIE," Reaciborowice
7.     Organic Chemistry
Synthetic Works, "KRYWALD-ERG," Knirow, Katowice
Tobacco Works, Krakow
Household Chemicals Works, "POLLENA, " Jawor (Legnica)
8.    Inorganic Chemistry
Glass and Ceramics Institute, Krakow
Refractory Materials Works, Rogoznik, Katowice



Sulphuric Acid Plant, Legnica
9.    Non-Ferrous Metals
Iron-Casting Department of "SENDZIMIR" Steel Works, Krakow
Metallurgical Works, "PRZEMKOW," Legnica
Metallurgical Works, "SILESIA," Katowice
10.   Manufacturing
Leather Works "PROSKOR," Prochowice, Legnica
Wire and Rope Works "LINODRUT," Bytom, Katowice
Mineral Wool Plant, POLINOWA," Gliwice, Katowice
11.   Ministry of Environmental Protection, Natural Resources and Forestry. 1993. Environmental
Audits: List of Specialists Prepared to Carry Out Audits
COMPONENT 4:
1.    Concept of the Monitoring System  of Water Quality Tests and Warning Stations (Biuro
Projekt6w Budownictwa Komunalnego in Cracow
2.    Study and Design of the Hydrometeorological Monitoring System for Upper Vistula River
(IMGW - Cracow)
3.    General Concept of Cracow and Katowice RZGW Organization ("HYDROPROJEKT")
4.    Technical Specification and Justification of the Investment Task for OBiKS Laboratory
Equipment in Tarn6w (OBiKS Tarn6w)
5.    Development of the Methodology of Measurements for Leak Diagnostics on Water Networks.
6.    Establishment of the Regional Water Management System  in Water Basin Arrangement
("HYDROPROJEKT")
7.    Technical Specification and Justification for the Implementation of Undertakings Resulting from
the Provision of Additional Equipment for OBiKS Laboratory - Katowice (OBiKS - Katowice)
8.    The System of Water Quality Monitoring and Warning Stations for Water Intakes and Water
Marks for Upper Vistula River Basin (Documentation to be annexed to the location adjudication
request) (
9.    Concept of Underground Water Quality Monitoring and Technical Specification of the
Equipment for Field Monitoring Services (Biuro Projekt6w Budownictwa Komunalnego in
Cracow)
10.   Feasibility Study for Underground Water Quality Monitoring for the lb Subregion of Upper
Vistula River Basin. (AGH - Cracow).
11.   Feasibility Study for Underground Water Quality Monitoring for the lb Subregion of Upper
Vistula River Basin. (AGH - Cracow).
12.   System/Contour Maps for 6 Warning Stations - Water Quality Monitoring System  (Biuro
Projekt6w Budownictwa Komunalnego in Cracow)



13.   Identification of Principal Problems Related to Water Management Within the Operation Area of
RZGW-Katowice (CBSiPBW - "Hydroprojekt" - Katowice Division)
14.   Opinion on the Study "Concept of Water Quality Management System in the Warning Station
and Water Mark Group of the Upper Vistula River Basin (NFGW - Warsaw)
15.   Foundations of the Uniform Structure of Data base for RZGW. (Technical University, Cracow).
16.   List of Priorities for Undertakings Related to Water Quality Improvement in Upper Vistula River
Basin (Technical University, Cracow).
17.   Determination of the Condition for Specific Uses of Water Resources of the Upper Vistula River
Basin in la and Ib Subregions. (CBSiPBW "Hydroprojekt" - Cracow Division)
18.   Identification of the Principal Issues on Water Management in the Upper Vistula River Basin - lb
Subregion. (CBSiPBW - Cracow Division).
19.   Updating of the Storage Reservoirs Control Instructions (CBSiPBW  "Hydroprojekt" - Warsaw)
("HYDROPROJEKT" Sp. z o.o.)
20.    The System of Water Quality Monitoring as well as Warning Stations and Water Marks of Water
Intakes for the Upper Vistula River Basin . Single Stage Technical Design for 7 Warning
Stations.(Biuro Projekt6w Budownictwa Komunalnego, Cracow).
21.    The System of Water Quality Monitoring as well as Warning Stations and Water Marks of Water
Intakes for the Upper Vistula River Basin . Concept for 7 Warning Stations.(Biuro Projekt6w
Budownictwa Komunalnego, Cracow).
22.   The Methodology of Establishing the Uniform Water Balances and Long Term Programmes.
(CBSiPBW "Hydroprojekt) (since 01.04.92 "HYDROPROJEKT" W-wa Sp. z o.o.)
23.   Provision of precise definition of the substantial information gathered and processed in for the
purpose of data base proposal for the needs of RZGW - Cracow and Katowice in connection with
the expected tasks.(HYDROPROJEKT" - W-wa)
24.   The System of Water Quality Monitoring as well as Waming Stations and Water Marks of Water
Intakes for the Upper Vistula River Basin - Study of the Possible Use of STORK Portable sondes
in the Monitoring Stations. (Biuro Projekt6w Budownictwa Komunalnego, Cracow)
25.   Privatisation and Water management Financing Problems in the Upper Vistula River Basin.
(Technical University, Cracow).
26.    Problem of Rural Area Sanitation in the Upper San River Basin - Principles and Lines of
Approaches with Particular Regard to the Utilisation of Waste Water Using Biogas Method and
Identification of its Energy-Efficiency. (Instytut Budownictwa, Mechanizacji i Elektryfikacji
Rolnictwa, Warsaw)
27.    Software for RZGW  Revenue Planning Related to the Charges for Specific Use of Water.
Establishment of Software Inter-connections in the Data Processing System of RZGW.(NFGW,
Warsaw)
28.    Technical Specification and Task Justification for Portable Water Quality Control Equipment -
Polish-English Version. ("MEDEKO" - Przedsiebiorstwo Us3ugowe Ochrony (Erodowiska,
Katowice).
29.    Problems of Flood Control with Particular Regard to the Mining Damage in the RZGW  -
Katowice Operation Area. (CBSiPBW, Katowice Division).



30.   Data Bank Documentation for RZGW - Cracow and Katowice. (IMGW, Cracow Division)
31.   Principles and Policies of Underground Water Protection in the Upper Vistula River Basin.
(Przeds. Us3. "ALS", Cracow).
32.   Documents for Location Adjudication Request for 3 Water Marks. (Biuro Projekt6w
Budownictwa Komunalnego, Cracow).
33.    1:500 Base Maps and Discharge Section Lines for Localities of Siewierz, Wojkowice Koscielne,
Majscowa, Ocewiecim-Brozkowice, Strumiefi, Czaniec, Sieniawa. (Biuro Projekt6w
Budownictwa Komunalnego, Cracow)
34.    1:500 Base Maps and Discharge Section Lines for Localities of Siewierz, Wojkowice Kocecielne,
Majscowa, Oaewiecim-Brozkowice, Strumiefn, Czaniec, Sieniawa (Biuro Projekt6w Budownictwa
Komunalnego, Cracow)
35.    Water Quality Monitoring System as well as Warning Stations and Water Marks of Water Intakes
for the Upper Vistula River Basin - Electrical Power Supply to Warning Stations in Kunkowice
and Zarzecze. (Biuro Projekt6w Budownictwa Komunalnego, Cracow)
36.    Start-up of the Leak Control and Water Losses Analysis System for Water Networks for Control
Point No 1. (Instytut Gospodarki Przestrzennej i Komunalnej, Cracow)
37.    Start-up of the Leak Control and Water Losses Analysis System for Water Networks in the Area
of Upper Vistula River Basin, and dissemination of results obtained. (Instytut Gospodarki
Przestrzennej i Komunalnej, Cracow).
38.   Programme for Setting Out Priority Undertakings in the Scope of Water Quality Improvement
under Protection Scheme of Upper Vistula River. (Technical University, Instytut Inzynierii i
Gospodarki Wodnej, Cracow).
39.   Problems of Flood Control with Particular Regard to the Mining Damage in the RZGW  -
Wroc3aw Operation Area within the Katowice Voivodship Boundaries - Methods and Policies of
Mining Damage Prevention. ("HYDROPROJEKT" W-wa Sp. z o.o., Pracownia Sosnowiec).
40.   Translations ("LANGHELP" - Sp.z o.o.)
41.    Translation and Interpretation into English language (5 hours). (LANGHELP" Sp.z o.o.)
42.   Translation into English language. (LANGHELP" Sp.z o.o.)
43.    Development of 6 Detailed Concepts for Water Intakes. (ODGW, Cracow).
44.   Consulting Services for the Data Processing System related assistance. ("POLNISAX" Sp. z o.o.,
Warsaw)
45.    Comments on the 1st Stage of the "Study and Final Design of the Hydrometeorological
Monitoring System of the Upper Vistula River. (Ekol. Biuro Konsult. NFOS, Warsaw).
46.   Technical Specification and Justification of the Investment Task for "Environment Protection
Planning using GIS". (Ekol. Biuro Konsult. NFOS, Warsaw)
47.   Preparation of the English version of Tender, Commercial and Technical Documents for
Ecological Laboratories in Katowice and Tarn6w and for the Leak Control and Recording
Equipment for Water Networks. (Ekol. Biuro Konsult. NFOS, Warsaw).
48.   Drawing and finishing work. (CBSiPBW "Hydroprojekt", Cracow Division)
49.   Translation of the document "Final Design" into English language. ("LIDEX" Biuro Pumaczefi)



50.   Installation of Polish Characters in the Printers (ODGW, Gliwice).
51.   Preparation of the Tender Documents in English Language for Equipment Purchase
("MEDEKO", Przeds. Us3ug. Ochr. CErod., Katowice)
52.   Preparation of the Tender Documents in English Language for the Supply of the Apparatus and
Equipment Set for Underground Water Quality Monitoring and the Equipment for the Water
Intakes Warning Stations In the Upper Vistula River Basin. ("MEDEKO", Przeds. Us3ug. Ochr.
CErod., Katowice).
53.   Implementation  of the Electronic Modules of Telemetric  Measurement Stations for
Hydrometeorological Monitoring System of Upper Vistula River. ("A-STER", Z-d Elektroniki i
Automatyki Przemys3owej, Cracow).
54.   Implementation of the Equipment Elements and Selected Measuring Detectors for the Network of
Hydrometeorological Monitoring Stations of Upper Vistula River Basin. (Wytw6rnia Sprzetu
Zootechniczn. "ZOOTECHNIKA", Cracow).
55.   Implementation of the Accessories of Telemetric Measurement Stations for Hydrometeorological
Monitoring System of Upper Vistula River. (Z-d Konstrukcji i Urz'dzefn "STALKON", Cracow).
56.   Implementation of 120 pieces of casings for the telepluviograph transmitter of TPL 891 type. (Z-
d Przetw6rstwa Tworzyw Sztucznych, Krosno).
57.   Mobilisation for the implementation of 30 pieces of duplex radio retransmitters for the
Hydrometeorological Monitoring System of Upper Vistula River. (Z-d Us3ug Elektronicznych
"ERDEX", Cracow).
58.   Travel costs - training for 12 persons in Germany and France. (LOT).
59.   Preparation of the Tender Documents and Technical Specifications in English Language for
Instantaneous Water Quality Measurement Equipment. ("PROEKO" Spz o.o., Warsaw)
60.   "Preparation of the Technical Description of the Investment Task in English and Polish
Languages Related to the Additional Equipment for the Regional Hydro-meteorological System"
(IMGW, Cracow).
61.   "Technical and Organisational Servicing of two International Open Tenders financed from the
World Bank Loan:
62.   Integrated Water Management Information System (preparation of the Final Design, purchase of
the software and hardware)
63.   Purchase of the Weather Radar, computer equipment for Hydrometeorological monitoring and
regional forecast centers, accessories for the satellite digital data receiving stations. (Polimex-
Cekop).
64.   "Co-finanzing of the 3d stage of Underground Water Quality Monitoring in the Upper Vistula
River Basin - Regional Monitoring of Underground Water Quality. (AGH, Cracow)



Table 8A:     Project Costs
Item                             Appraisal estimate                   Actual Total
(US$ million equivalent)          (US$ million equivalent)
Local   Foreign      Total        Local   Foreign       Total
Costs     Costs                   Costs      Costs
1.  Policy, Management and          1.2       2.6        3.8           1.3       3.6        4.9
Program Coordination
2.  Industrial Efficiency and       0.4        3.0       3.4           1.7        3.0       4.7
Environment Reviews
3.  Air Quality Planning and        1.9        4.5       6.4           0.8        2.9       3.7
Management
4.  Water Resources Planning        3.7        5.7       9.4           3.7        8.3      12.0
and Management
Base Cost                       7.2       15.8      23.0
Physical Contingencies          0.8        1.4       2.2
Price Contingencies             1.3       0.8        2.1
Total Project Costs             9.3       18.0      27.3           7.5       17.8      25.3
Note:    Figures may not total due to rounding



Table 9:     Economic Costs and Benefits
No economic analysis of project estimated at appraisal
Table 10:    Status of Legal Covenants
No legal covenants
Table 11:    Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Statement number and title Describe and comment on lack of compliance
No lack of compliance was observed



Table 12:      Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of project cycle                   Planned                        Actual
Weeks            US$          Weeks             US$
Preparation to appraisal                 --              --                          114.2
Appraisal                                 --             --                          53.8
Negotiations through Board               --              --                           13.3
Approval
Supervision
FY90                                 N/A                            5.3
FY91                                 N/A                           22.1            67.9
FY92                                 N/A                           23.7            71.9
FY93                                 N/A                            11.0           37.2
FY94                                 N/A                            10.9           36.5
FY95                                 10.0                           5.7            25.6
FY96                                 11.0                           4.8            15.3
FY97                                 13.5                          10.9            36.6
Completion                              18.0                           6.4           20.0
Total                                                                100.8          492.3



APPENDIX A: Project Implementation Unit (PIU) Contribution to the ICR'
SUMMARY OF EVALUATION REPORT
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION UNIT
In April 1990 the Government of the Republic of Poland concluded a loan agreement with the World
Bank for the implementation of the "Environmental Management Strategy" Program. The target of the
Program was to improve the tools for environmental protection in Poland and to initiate reconstruction of
environment management institutions in the direction of solutions positively tested in the market
economy. It was assumed that the Program to be introduced with participation of the World Bank experts
and include, apart from purchase of equipment, also personnel training, specialist training and exchange
of personnel with foreign institutions. The aim of the Program was to implement the new effective
environment management systems, existing in the Western countries and its practical development in the
Katowice and Krak6w provinces as well as in the upper Vistula Basin. This Program was assuredly
geared to introduction of novel concepts into environmental management in system transformation
conditions and covered four problem packages, the so-called Components, namely:
Component 1 - Institutional strengthening of the environmental policy making sector
Component 2 - Environmental/economic review of selected industrial enterprises
Component 3 - Air quality management
Component 4 - Water resources planning and management
Total amount of loan for all the a/m Components was USD 18.000.000,- along with the Polish
commitment to disburse the so-called support fund (a total sum of PLN equivalent of USD 9,000,000)
for investment, studies and implementation. The Program implementation period was fixed for 1990-
1995 but under an additional agreements this period was extended till December 31, 1996 to ensure
utilization of all the accumulated reserves and savings generated over the project implementation period.
The Program was geared to create a general framework identifying the crucial ecological issues in
Poland and facilitating transition to a decentralized environment management system. The Program was
to serve as a catalyst supporting environment management and creation of institutional, legal and
information basis for immediate remediation measures and long-term investment processes supported by
bilateral and multilateral assistance. Investments implemented under this Program in the area of south-
eastern Poland are model to industrial, water and air protection management which should be replicated
in other regions of the country according to financial capacity.
Ad COMPONENT ) "INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING OF THE ENVIRONMENTAL
POLICYMAKING SECTOR
(This chapter has been given to the Bank Mission by the Implementing Agency. It
has not been edited by the Mission.)



APPENDIX A: Project Implementation Unit (PIU) Contribution to the ICR               page 2
The objective of this component was to help to establish an effective environmental management system
in Poland. The basic elements of this component included training for the Ministry of Environmental
Protection Natural Resources and Forestry (MEPNRF) and regional units staff, purchase of hardware and
software packages and foreign consultant assistance.
Tasks which required studies (consultant assistance, pre-investment documentation) were funded with the
use of a USA Governmental grant.
Component I consisted of three sub-components:
* Management and Policy,
* Environmental Health,
* Municipal Solid and Hazardous Wastes.
Tasks implemented under this component resulted in establishment of environmental management system
at the level of the Ministry of Environmental Protection mainly. Support for the Bureau of Geological
Concession at the Ministry geared to efficient system of granting concessions for oil and gas exploration
and production. Component was also focused on improvement of monitoring system for data on health
impacts of environmental pollution. Model studies on municipal solid waste management and toxic
wastes for five cities in Poland were developed. Component I was the most dynamic one and many
modifications were made during its implementation.
Ad COMPONENT 2 "ENVIRONMENTAL/ECONOMIC REVIEW OF SELECTED INDUSTRIAL
ENTERPRISES".
Introductio,i of ecological and economic review of enterprises into the environmental management
system in Poland as a proven tool effectively applied in market economy countries was the basic
objective of Component 2. A proper ecological and economic review should soon become and essential
element helpful in the process of privatisation, granting financial assistance by banks and ecological
funds for the up-grading, extension and pro-ecological investment projects. It should also provide the
most advantageous method for harmonisation production activities with ecological standards.
It was agreed that implementation of the component included:
* training of a staff of Polish experts on the techniques and organisation of reviews, and
* completion of a number of reviews in pre-selected industrial plants.
Planned tasks and objectives have been reached:
* 124 Polish experts were trained in techniques and organisation of ecological and economic reviews.
The list of trainees was presented in a publication entitled: "Ecological Reviews in Industrial Plants"
* overall ecological and economic reviews were carried out in 10 industrial plants
* detailed ecological and economic reviews were carried out in 12 industrial plants
* training participants carried out reviews in 18 industrial plants
* training abroad was provided for 46 persons.
Implementation of Component 2 was terminated by a promotion seminar focused on presentation of skills
and potential of Polish experts trained under this Component. The seminar was attended by invited



APPENDIX A: Project Implementation Unit (PIU) Contribution to the ICR              page 3
prospective users i.e. those companies and persons who use the reviews in their day-to-day work, namely
representatives of industry, banks, insurance companies, Ministries and local authorities.
Ad COMPONENT 3 ,,Air Quality Management (Pilot Project for the Katowice-Krak6w region)"
Activities within Component No.3, concerned with air quality management, were targeted at the
voivodships of Katowice and Krak6w and, to much lesser extent, the voivodship of Legnica. Initially a
proposal for a common air quality management system for the Katowice-Krak6w region was formulated,
basing on the assumption that the region constitutes a spatial entity within which pollutant dispersion
occurs. Following an in-depth analysis of the existing condition, a decision was made to establish two
twin systems which could be coupled quickly and without problems immediately after the legal situation
permits such a fusion. With these assumptions made, the scope of the air quality management Component
was defined as including the establishment of an Air Quality Management System in the Krakow and
Katowice voivodships, basing on existing foreign systems.
The Air Quality Management System was to perform two basic functions:
*     to permit the optimization of long-term investment schemes aimed at air pollution abatement;
*     to secure effective air quality management in smog situations.
Component 3 of the World Bank Project was the first attempt to apply an integrated approach to regional
air quality management in Poland. Component 3 resulted in the development of the following:
1. The largest modem automatic air monitoring system in Central and Eastern Europe (the Katowice
voivodship), which may be linked with the Krak6w network to form a regional system consisting of
18 automatic monitoring stations.
2.  A comprehensive concept of a smog emergency response system, including forecasting and
proclaiming states of emergency and a set of countermeasures aimed at operational emission
reduction in smog emergency situations.
3.  Data bank on emission of air pollutant a tool for effective monitoring and updating emission data
through measurements (mobile laboratories with equipment for measurement of pollutant emission).
4.  A set of computer programs for optimization of investments in air quality control on voivodship
level and enabling the introduction of the transferable emission permit mechanism as a tool for
attaining environmental goals at lowest possible cost. This decision support system so far has no
equivalent in of the Central and Eastern European countries.
Ad COMPONENT 4 ,,WATERRESOURCESPLANNINGAND MANAGEMENT(PilotProjectfor
the Upper Vistula River Basin) "
In according to plans to introduce integrated water management system in Poland based at the catchment
level, this Component is served as a model for integrated river basin management in the pilot upper
Vistula River basin. The Regional Water Management Offices in Krakow and Katowice (i.e. upper



APPENDIX A: Project Implementation Unit (PIU) Contribution to the ICR                page 4
Vistula River basin) were established which work with the national government and local wojewodships
in planning and implementing improved approaches to the management of surface and ground water
resources with regard to both quantity and quality. The upper Vistula river basin, which has been chosen
to serve as a demonstration for all the other seven river basins, has been divided into two sub-basins on
the grounds of varying specificity of economic problems, different levels of infrastructure development
and different economic characteristics.
The main objectives of this component were to:
(a)  support the development of an improved water resources planning and management system for the
upper Vistula River basin;
(b)  serve as a demonstration of integrated river basin management in Poland.
The project assisted in the improved management of water quantity and quality. It was:
(a)  review measures in improved water management;
(b)  review demand reduction to reduce the investment and operational budget for water supply; and
(c)  assist in the designs of a shared least-cost investment program for reduction of point and non-point
source water pollution in the area.
Performance of the Component 4 led to initiation of many work targeted in improvement of managing
and financing of water management. In the course of the Component 4 the work on the new water low
was undertaken. All completed research studies, implemented technical solutions revealed faults of the
present development of water resources. The documents worked out as a part of the studies shown the
directions for improvements. The complete realization of targets will be possible after creating the legal
basis enabling the water resources to be managed in the basin layout. An achievement of the Program
was equipping RZGW in Krakow and Katowice and other units as well with the specialized research
equipment, which created conditions for cooperation and information exchange and in some cases
enabled to widen area of RZGW activity defined by the Ordinance of the Ministry of Environmental
Protection, Natural Resources and Forestry (MEPNRF). Execution of the Component 4 met series of
difficulties. At first place were the financial problems, since execution coincided with the economic
crisis and transformation of economic and political system in Poland. Thus the tasks were implemented
when the national budget was suffered to deep deficit. This is why it was necessary to look for alternative
source of finance in the form of aim funds (The National Fund of Env. Protection, PHARE etc.)
Organizational and legal difficulties resulted from the delayed acceptance of new water low.
The gained experiences and obtained results connected with implementation of the Component4 clearly
indicate necessity to popularize its Program.
In the course of performance of the Component 4 the numerous meetings with representatives of foreign
companies and institutions engaged in water management in many countries, including those from the
Eastern Europe, were organized in Krak6w and Katowice. At RZGW the special training on procedures
and task resulting from implementation of the Component 4 was also held. The visits of the World Bank
representatives, last in January and March 1997, emphasized the necessity to conduct such popularization
of achieved effects.
Component 4 of the Project ,,Water Management and Planning" is a consistent, comprehensive project
supporting the introduction of a modern water management system in Poland, a system that is based on
river basin management.



APPENDIX A: Project Implementation Unit (PIU) Contribution to the ICR             page 5
The role, importance and effects achieved during the implementation of Component 4 have been
recognized by the Minister of Environmental Protection, Natural Resources and Forestry and a special
ministerial committee which was to recommend further tasks to be funded by the reserves and economies
achieved in the whole World Bank Project indicated to tasks implemented under this very Component 4
as the most valuable and most recommended for continuation. The Minister of Environmental Protection,
Natural Resources and Forestry approved that choice of the committee.
KEY ASSUMPTIONS AND RISKS RATINGS.
Under the agreement, the project was to be implemented in co-operation with the Ministry of
Environmental Protection, Natural Resources and Forestry (MEPNRF), Ministry of Health and Social
Assistance (MHSA), Ministry of Industry (MI), Ministry of Territorial Planning and Construction and
local authorities of Katowice, Krak6w and Legnica. The main responsibility for implementation of all the
project components was borne by the MEPNRF, exclusive of that relating to Ecological and Economic
Reviews in Industrial Works (i.e. Component 01), which was coordinated by the Ministry of Territorial
Planning and Construction. Under Component 04, i.e. Water Management and Planning co-operation
included eleven provinces and their activities were coordinated by the Upper Vistula River Basin Board
which has two branch offices.
For management and project implementation control purposes it was planned to establish a Project
Steering Committee headed by the Minister of Environmental Protection, Natural Resources and Forestry
with the participation of representatives of the following institutions: MEPNRF, MHSA, MI and MTPC,
Voivode Offices in Katowice, Krak6w and Legnica, the Upper Vistula River Basin Board and non-
governmental Polish ecological organizations. An PIU was established with the MEPNRF, i.e. a team for
all-project implementation, whereas at regional levels three of the four project "components" were
supervised by Local Implementation Teams. For the purpose of the fourth component two Water
Management Offices were established besides the Upper Vistula River Basin Board, pending the
establishment of Regional Water Management Offices in Krak6w and Katowice.
In view of the circumstances described above the institutional and legal settlements for the project were
complete and considered in detail.
Delay in the establishment of Regional Water Management Offices postponed the implementation of the
whole Component 04 of the Project. Moreover, with time and significant changes in the central and
regional authorities, involvement of e.g. Voivode Offices in project implementation started to decrease. It
should also be noted that the adopted principle on payroll and overhead expense in the Project
Implementation Unit and Local Implementation Teams, recovered by the MEPNRF and local govemment
budgets respectively, was not a correct principle.
During the Project Component 03 implementation under the US Environmental Protection Agency
(USEPA) program, initial works were carried out in Krak6w on putting into operation a system of air
pollution reduction in smog conditions. In view of the fact that such a smog emergency system is of an
innovative nature in Poland and there is no explicit legal basis for its execution, it was decided in 1991 to
develop, under a WB program, such a system for Krak6w only and to deem the results a pilot program, to
be replicated primarily in the province of Katowice. Such approach was approved and accepted by the
World Bank.
Other examples, of a slightly different nature but approved by the WB, are presented by solutions under
the Component 04 relating to EEC (PHARE - Phase I) grant support for "Implementation of the
Hydrometeorological and Underground Water Monitoring Systems" task, totalling 781 022 ECU and



APPENDIX A: Project Implementation Unit (PIU) Contribution to the ICR              page 6
non-repayable financial support from the Swedish Government for the implementation of "Development
and Putting into Operation the Quality Register for Ecological Laboratories, Adaptation and Putting into
Operation the LIMS System Included" task, amounting to 6 598 000 SEK; these tasks have been
excluded from those initially planned for implementation under the WB loan, thus increasing the project
financial reserves allocated to additional tasks (the process itself and the titles of these additional tasks
were negotiated separately and achieved WB approval).
The majority of Polish institutions, before the Project were not ready to proceed in accordance with
international tender procedures. This fact brought numerous difficulties in overriding barriers mainly in
the sphere of habits, routines and former everyday practices. Familiarization of these institutions with
such international procedures and achievement of a more advanced understanding of these issues was one
of the crucial goals and hence achievements of the whole Project.
The Project Implementation Unit and Local Implementation Teams have been shifted to other structures -
from the MEPNRF to the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management and from
Voivode Offices into a new form of Limited Liability Partnerships respectively. In the latter case the
Provincial Funds for Environmental Protection and Water Management hold the majority of shares.
Transformation of Water Management Offices into Regional Water Management Offices and their
introduction into the new organizational structure in Poland is also among the Project achievements.
RECOMMENDATIONS from the PIU to the World Bank:
Firstly: a better location of the Project Implementation Unit - greater prerogatives, more freedom and
independence in operation (though not uncontrolled).
Secondly: exertion of greater pressure by the WB on discharge of the following commitments by the
Polish party:
financial (i.e. the so-called counterpart - the share of the central budget in project associated actions;
legislative (assurance on exemption from duties and taxes on devices and equipment imported under the
loan), and
organizational (improved administrative co-operation at central and regional levels, i.e. the Ministry
versus Voivode Offices).
FINAL CONCLUSIONS:
The World Bank Project objective was to fund technical assistance, training and equipment supporting
the implementation of tasks grouped into four Components with particular focus on the most ecologically
degraded regions of Poland. The priority objective included assistance in definition of the most essential
ecological problems and participation in the process of decentralization of the environment management
system in Poland. The project served as a catalyst reinforcing the environmental management and
supporting the establishment of institutional, legal and IT basis for the current remediation measures and
long-term investment supported by bi- and multi-lateral assistance.
Investment projects implemented under this Project in the a/m regions shall become models for industrial
plant, water and air protection management and may be successfully reproduced in other parts of the
country gradually with increasing funds. Moreover, this approach may be considered as model within the
framework of the Polish administrative structure. This structure, promoting local authorities at the cost of



APPENDIX A: Project Implementation Unit (PIU) Contribution to the ICR                 page 7
the provincial ones, requires strong institutions in the field of environmental protection, ensuring
successful solving local problems in this field. The effected training on ecological reviews of industrial
plants and river basin scheme of water management ensured skilled staff necessary for continuous and
effective operating in project servicing, ready to make better decisions on local levels, i.e. to rapidly
improve operational efficiency.
Both the Polish experts and World Bank representatives assess the project as highly successful both in
organizational terms and as an example of highly effective utilization of financial means, both from the
World Bank loan and the domestic supporting fund. It is also of great importance that the approaches are
innovative with the use of the most advanced equipment of world standard alongside with procedural
amendments and a new way of thinking presented by the authors of the Terms of Reference, both at the
stage of development and implementation.
\'



From: MCSZNiL.DeP.Pol.Ekol.        FHCsE No.: 022 254724          Apr.01 1997 9:29r-M  POI
m§0TRX   OCHRONY tRODOWJ}A,
ZASOBsW  NATURALNYCK I LEgNICTWA
DEPARTAM1ENTPO-ITYKI EKOLQGICZNEJ
Czeslaw WiqckowkI
DYREX TOR DEPARTAMENTU
F A X    M  E S S A G E
Warszawa, 01 kwietnia 1997
Fax No.: 49.20.98.
To:     National Fund  for Envfronmental
Protection and Water Management
Forelgn Co - operation Ta3k Force
Attn:    Mr. Ryszard J. Rogoweki
the World Bank Project Co-ordinator
From:   Czea4aw Wiqckowski
Director, Environmental Policy Dept.
(former'Head, Procurement Sectlon,
the WS Project Implementatlon Unit)
Ref.:   Comments on the World Bank Implementation Completion Report
,,Poland - Enviroment Management Project (Loan No.: 3190 POL).
Pases: 2
Dear Jacek,
Thank you with providing me with the draft Implementation Completion Report on our
.Poland - Environment Management Project" co-financed from the World Bank Loan
No.: 3190 POL, having been an output of the World Bank Project Assessment Mission.
I am extremally grateful to the World Bank Mission members for their friendly but very
objective assessment of the implementation and sustainability of the Project referred to
above. This assessment seems to be in ftdll complianoo with the Mihlistry OT
environmental Protection, Natural Resources and Forestry high opinion on results of the
Project as well as on the involvement of the World Bank and its officers personal
engagement.
I feel obliged to express my firm personal thanks to our friends from the World Bank for
their personal invoivement and patience in transfering their reacin experience to the
Project Implementation Unit staff, what resulted in the final Project success but also in
the personal development of PIU individuals for the sake of Poland's National
Environmental Policy implementation.



From   MOSZNiL.Dep.Pol.Ekol.         PHONE No. : 022 254784           Apr.01 1997 9:26AM  P02
The only gap I have found in the Report was the ommition of an importance of the World
Bank team assistance to us and its continuity along the Project implenientation, which
resulted in the final success, and, I am very sure, in the further fruiVul co-operation in
different areas and in different markets, and, what is the most impqrt nit, in our personal
Lnderstanding and friendship. I
I do propose to translate this Report, after the World Bank final adoption, to the Polish
language, and distribute it largely to other central administration offices, to the local
authorities, the Parliament members, the leading NGOs. The Englisl version could be
sent to the CEU Headquarter in Brusselles, to the UN Secretary Ger eral Office, to the
lFIs, other donor Parties, and to the CEEC Capitols, with respect to promote the World
Bank methods and ways of assistance In sectoral development and capacity building.
I am sorry I write this letter in English. I do hope you can show iIs to Helmut. I do
further hope English is more understandable to him than Polish. Unfortunately my
German is too pure to write.
Enclosing my best personal regards to you, Helmut,Steve, Naushad, I remain.
Very/sincerely yours
Czezsfaw Wiqckowski






NOTES






MAP SECTION






IBRD 221 38R
.     .                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NORWAYf    >  tSoNA 
P O LA N D                        ,Ot~y/ - s                                               RUSSIAN
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT    REN kiSWE t                                                             3   IATVA,ERI
DENMA~~   Sea ~~LTHUANIAŽl
*     PROJECT HEADQUARTERS           e   PROVINCE (WOJEWODZTWO) CAPITALS                            ,E<ARQ ''  8 tS,'
PROJECT FIELD LOCATIONS        ®   NATIONAL CAPITAL                           s            ,   Warsow     )
UPPER VISTULA RIVER BASIN    -= RIVERS                                       F                 POLAND
4    AIRPORTS                      -    CANALS                                                     -I t               UKRAINE
~TCZECI-         (
M MAJOR PORTS                       -  -- PROVINCE (WOJEWODZTWO) BOUNDARIES    ->                REP  J'
_    MAJOR URBAN AREAS              --- INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
swilAr ASTRIA JHUNGARYj ROMANIA  \;
14                    16'                    19                    (20r.'                 22''  \            -
4                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RUSSIANP
B a l t i c   S e a           p<;  >'   >N           si; 1  A;FEDERATION                               LITH'UANIA
I    +Slupk    ) Gdyniadt            .- r
4 >   ,   e'    s;'*     '%sdaosk ,      '/-.-  _,_,_              ' _-V    , 1.clns
-              4®         ~~~~~~~SLLUPSK
(9gS~~~t -' <1                                                                              SIALK A,,
Kost            A '4  Aw  FrlA  & J     g  <;GDANSK  Eba               SuwaIlki®
>   Wielkopols>/la';2t~~~~~~ 5*-\ >    a ,'WtOCLAWEKg'8ptocKW   < r  _;<    ( ~~~ I,'~ 54
9~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ozln                                                                          SUWALKA -Xos)1lue   Z0slc  9 ^J 5s- 
,\& ~~~'si.                      ._  >0onn>f>+(,$nsnnoEo'n,I'B 5 lIAG,>
KEBLG   QLSZTYN                   'A-'7M'd
KOSZALIN- > 52       °      -
SZCZECINf,i(--   '\            (                                                               -      \T
W            ">' rORA          -> SYDGOSZCZ   9                                 *'r   ';          > '  A`s YDGOSZC
r X  Z                            ,                             Z KA./SZ  (  S/@Eh''ADZ .S  PiobrkoLk 5  >,a  LOMAtA
c-:                      (     ~~~~~~          ~       ~~ ~~~~~TORU      -_        Balyto   BEL ARU S
/        Jib eGor   Pilo  (Os cH              }           Ostroleko ''x0
o      L EL   L                             CIECHANOW   OSTRLEKA
WIEGORZOLK                                                   Ciechanow    '
on~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ KON/N mo<oCfinl,o h olo h  o/don nu,ori                  *>    
occenhnce~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ocoa                         spluc bunon
rIELONk'~    1e6°sj>%         S          L      O VJ KAr          Ks                2    RULA   r
,  j ,M S k97
'N                             WROCLAW                   %TRYRUarNALSKIEA-EWCf,
GORA       OLESZN    £  OPOe ')~- CZSONOA~.fKdce                       /
so'  REPUBLIC                                                   '...     YARNOW~~~KAISZ Si.
I   I   I                 I~~~~~~~~~~~~'  +T Y UN               LK 
o  25   50     75    100~~Grgl   MIOLEES
Thismapwasprouce bytheMopDesgn lni oFTheworldy IBankzZaos
14'  L'N  16'             18'           SLOVAK  so- REPUBLIC             %~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T  22f4
vv ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~MY19









IMAGING
Report No.;          16640
Type:     ICR



