Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFMCIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-5256-POL
MEMORANDUM AND RECONhENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO TE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$18 MILLION
TO THlE
REPUBLIC OF POLAND
FOR AN
ENVIRONMENT MANAGEMENT PROJECT
April 2, 1990
This document ha: a esticted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not othendse be disciosed without World Bank authoization.



CORRENCY AND KOUIVALENT U]IM
Currency Unit - Zloty (Zi) (average rates)
June      Dec       Mar
anM       2iD1                Jill       ill      1990
US$1.00 -  175       265       430       850      4900       9500  Zlotys
VEIGT AD MAS
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS
EC             -    European Community
ESW            -    Economic and Sector Work
cIS            -    Geographic Information System
ICB            -    International Competitive Bidding
LID            -    Limited International Bidding
LIU            -    Local Implementation Unit
NIS            -    Management Information System
MOE            -    Ministry of Environmental Protection, Natural Resources and
Forestry
MOR            -    Ministry of Health and Social gelfare
MNI            -    tinistry of Industry
MPDC           -    Ministry of Physical Development and Construction
NBP            -    National Bank of Poland
NGO            -    Non-Governmental Organization
PIU            -    Project Implementation Unit
PPF            =    World Bank Project Preparation Facility
PSC            -    Project Steering Committee
vmC            -    Water Management Council
POLAND - FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ENVIRO NMENT MANAGE       PROJEGT
Loan and Project Summary
Republic of Poland
Beneficiaries:           Ministry of Environmental Protection, Natural Resources
and Forestry; Ninistry of Industry; Ministry of Health
and Social Welfare; Ninistry of Physical Development
and Construction; selected provincial authorities: and
selected industrial enterprises.
Amount:                  USS18.0 million equivalent
Terms:                   Seventeen years, including a five-year grace period,
at the Bank's standard variable interest rate.
pinancinA Plan:          Government                USS  9.3 million
IBRD                      USS 18.0 million
TOTAL                     USS 27.3 million
Economic Rate of Return: N.A.
Staff Appraisal Report: N.A.
IBRD 22138
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authr ;tionj



ENORANDUII AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED IAN
TO THE REPUBLIC OF POLAND
FOR AN ENVIRONMENT M NAGEMENT PROJECT
1.        The folloving memorandum and recommendation on a proposed loan to the
Republic of Poland for US$18.0 million equivalent is submitted for approval.
The proposed loan would be on standard IBRD terms with 17 years maturity
inclusive of 5 years grace period. It would help finance technical assistance
and specialized scientific equipment in support of the environmental Improvement
program of the Republic of Poland.
2.          c       .   After several decades of central planning, Poland's
economic structure is skewed towards heavy industry and energy production, mainly
based on coal. Coal accounts for more than 75X of primary energy consumption
in Poland, compared with 24X for Western Europe as a whole, and 27X for the
United States. The Polish economy uses 2-3 times as much materials and energy
per unit of output as market economies. The input-intensity and the geographic
concentration of industries, coupled with limited control of air emissions,
inadequate wastewater treatment, and neglect of maintenance, rehabilitation and
modernization, result in very high level; of air and water pollution, and large
quantities of solid wastes.
3.        Air pollution derives principally from coal burning and metallurgy and
causes high rates of chronic bronchitis and asthma; consumption of agricultural
products grown on soil contaminated with metal deposits results in some of the
highest exposure to carcinogens and teratogens in the world. In 1987, 95Z of
surface waters were unfit for human consumption, because of domestic sewage and
Industrial pollution. In addition, the discharge of over 9000 tons of salt daily
as a byproduct from coal mining makes most of the two main rivers, the Vistula
and the Odra, too corrosive for industrial consumption. A quarter of Poland's
cities and the majority of rural areas experience permanent or temporary water
shortages.   Half of the cities ~including garsaw) and 351 of industrial
facilities have limited or no wastewater treatment systems. The Government has
officially designated 27 "areas of ecological hazard". These areas comprise 11l
of the total territory and include 351 of its population. Five of these areas
have been declared "zones of ecological disaster", mostly located in a band
across the southern and western part of the country where mining and heavy
industry are concentrated.   Polish researchers have estimated that current
environmental degradation in Poland results in losses corresponding to 10-15l
of annual GNP.
4.        Poland has a comprehensive regulatory system including ambient and
emission/effluent standards; permits, fees and fines. In practice, this system
is rendered ineffective by the low levels of payments involved (much lower than
the clean-up costs) and by the lack of adequate staff and equipment to verify
enterprise self-monitoring requirements. Many enterprises -- especially the
worst polluters -- have tended to ignore the environmental regulations
altogether, while the remainder prefer to pay the fines and continue with gross
violations of the emission standards.



-2-
5.        Environmental  problems  are  a priority  concern  of  the  present
Government, whose approach to the issue builds on the consensus reached in the
kound Table Ecology Agreement of March 1989 (between the then Government and the
Solidarity Opposition), and the subsequent National Program of Environment
Protection submitted to the National Assembly. The Government's strategy is to
prevent pollution at source and to apply the "polluter pays principle" by
introducing consistent standards and enforcement (particularly as part of
industrial restructuring), improving monitoring systems, developing an
environmental protection industry, and regionalizing environmental management.
The Government has formally targeted the 80 worst industrial polluters for
immediate action to improve their environmental performance. At the same time,
Government task forces are revising the regulatory system and designing a
national environmental monitoring strategy. Over the next ten years, Poland is
aiming to adopt European Community environmental standards and harmonize its
policies with those of other European countries.  The Polish Government has
estimated that more than US$20 billion equivalent may be required to meet this
objective.
6.        Bank Strateuy and Rationale for Bank Involvement. As indicated in the
most recent Country Brief (December 1989), the Bank's assistance strategy is
designed to support Poland's objectives to improve efficiency and productivity
of the economy and to upgrade socio-economic conditions, as well as to support
the market-oriented policies the Government has adopted to achieve them. To
reach these objectives, the Bank is assisting the Government in implementing its
program to: (i) reform the economic system; (ii) restructure the productive base;
and (iii) improve creditworthiness.   The Government has recognized that an
integral part of the reform and restructuring process is an appropriate
environmental strategy.
7.        The Bank's first Country Economic Memorandum in 1987 addressed health-
related pollution issues; and during the preparation of the first generation of
investment projects financed by the Bank, careful attention has been paid to
pollution abatement. A background report on environment was completed in June,
1989, and vork started on a more comprehensive environment strategy study,
expected to be completed by the end of FY90. The initial findings of the sector
work indicated that substantial technical assistance would be required to help
strengthen the institutional arrangements for environmental management at all
levels; to promote the management expertise necessary to implement the
Government's program efficiently; and to help set consistent prlorities and
prepare the substantial investments required as well as absorb and coordinate
the numerous offers of bilateral and multilateral assistance. Discussions in
Poland during the main sector work mission in September, 1989, resulted in an
agreement for accelerated processing of the proposed Environment Management
Project.
8.        Despite the large number of foreign assistance offers for environme. _al
investments in Poland, the need to establish priorities is critical, as the total
amount of funds still falls far short of the longer-term requirements. Without
clear and generally accepted priorities, there is a risk that resources could
be squandered and worse, that scarce local funds could be tied up on operation
and maintenance of low priority investments. The Bank's involvement through the



proposed Project is therefore important to: (i) provide assistance for immediate
investments that would cause an improvement in the short-term, and (ii) lay the
foundation fcr a longer-term sustainable investment and policy program. It would
provide the institutional and regulatory framework to support the implementation
of specific environmental components envisaged in most major Bank operations;
and would also form the basis for additional Bank lending to Poland specifically
for stand-alone environment projects.
9.         rojct ObjectMvf. The purpose of the proposed Environment Management
Project is to provide an umbrella framework for addressing the highest priority
environmental concerns in Poland, and for moving toward a decentralized system
of environmental management.   The Project aims to serve as a catalyst by
strengthening  environmental  management  and  helping  to  establish  the
institutional, regulatory, and informational basis for immediate corrective
actions and longer-term extensive investments supported through bilateral and
multilateral assistance. It also aims to reduce health risks, decrease economic
costs from environmental degradation, and improve environmental quality.
10.       Prolect Descrintion. To achieve the objectives in the most effective
manner, investments and institutional measures under the Project focus on the
most polluted areas of Poland, and are designed to serve as models for
industrial, air and water management that could be replicated throughout the
country as financial resources become available. Specifically, the proposed
Project would finance technical assistance, training and equipment in support
of four components, with an emphasis on the most environmentally damaged areas
in the southern part of Poland (Map). A more detailed descriptlon is provided
in the Technical Annex.
(i)   Polio. Nanaftement and Pronram Co4rdination.  This component comprises
three complementary subcomponents:
Manamement and Policy_ A small internationally recruited team of
highly experienced policy experts would provide advice to the NOE
for implementing an improved budgeting/work program procedure and
a management information system; advising on a country-wide
environmental monitoring strategy; recommending economic incentives
for environmentally sound investment decisions and efficient natural
resource use; providing input to the legislative drafting process;
and assisting in the economic analysis of investment proposals for
local  and  foreign  financing.    Toward  the  end  of  project
implementation (1993), consultants would evaluate the experience
gained under the Project in preparation for repli.ation in other
parts of Poland. Funds from the Bank's Project Prel ration Facility
are being used to accelerate the hiring of experts to provide
assistance in drafting regulations and designing an environmental
monitoring strategy.
Environmental Health. The subcomponent is directed to: improving
the quality of monitoring data on food and soil contamination
through inter-laboratory tests and unified analytical methods (by
mid-1991); establishing, by end-1991, a priority list of hazardous



chemicals and technologies in Poland; establishing more reliable
lirkages between environmental factors and the health of affected
population groups (by mid-1993); determining where the most
hazardous areas in Poland are to be found (based on health data
rather than ambient air and water quality); ascertaining which
sources contribute most to population exposure; and training chronic
disease epidemiologists to deal with the major health problems
arising from exposure to environmental contamination.
unicinal SqlIdA and Hazardous Wastes. The subcomponent would help
establish a policy for municipal solid and hazardous waste
management taking into account spatial aspdcts and health effects.
Several institutions would coordinate to develop by end 1992, with
internationally  recruited  specialist  assistance,   least-cost
investment  and  policy  strategies  for  waste  management.    A
transferable methodology would be developed by conducting three
case-studies in: a large municipality (Warsaw), a medium-size
municipality (Tychy), and a small town (Leczyca).
(ii)                                                      Th4stral=1,cJMM  and *aviromm  Re compenent would
introduce in the Katowice, Krakow, and Legnica areas a program for
conducting voluntary reviews to assist economically viable industrial
enterprises identify least-cost ways to move towards compliance with
environmental standards. The reviews by joint teams of foreign and local
experts would provlde a tec'--ical basis for improvements in management,
process supervision, and di act domestic and external financing towards
high priority environmental improvements In industrial enterprises.
Foreign and local training opportunities in industrial pollution
management and control would be provided to personnel from nat%onal and
local environmental authorities, industrial enterprises, and consulting
organizations.
(iii) Air Oualitv hanagement. The Project would heli develop a comprehensive
air pollution management and abatement strate' for the highly polluted
Katowice-Krakow region. Under this component   apport would be provided
to: establish a real-time ambient air monitt, g system for Katowice;
provide mobile air quality monitoring equipment for evaluation of emission
sources; provide computer equipment and software to strengthen analytical
capabilities in dispersion modeling, regi;.;sl air management and
investment decisions; prepare a health risk assessment; develop a least-
cost strategy; as well as carry out extensive training.
(iv) Water Resources Nanag_n=t. This component would serve as a model for
integrated river basin management in Poland by supporting the development
of an improved water resources planning and management system for the
upper Vistula River basin.   It would strengthen the Water Ianagement
Council representing the eleven wojewodships in the upper Vistula River
basin, help develop a phased least-cost investment program, and provide
equipment for: hydrometeorological observations to control the risks of
floodlng; monitoring and warning stations to improve both the national
monitoring network and management of the main water treatment plants in



-5-
the basin; field investigations to control major industrial and municipal
effluents; groundwater investigations; leakage detection and metering of
losses of fresh water from the water distribution net; upgrading two
environmental laboratories to serve the area for analysis of water, air,
waste and contaminated soil samples; and establishing a geographic
information system to improve overall enironmental management in the
region.
11.       PrOISt IelenLtaton *d Procureumt.  Responsibility for project
implementatlon would be with the Ministry of Environmeatal Protection, Watural
Resources and Forestry (NOZ), supported by an Inter-MinisterLal Project Steering
Committee (PSC). A Project Implementation Unit (PIU) will be established in
the NOE, which would be responsible for overall coordination of the Project, for
financial management and procurement.   Components dealing with Industrial
Efficiency and Environment Reviews, and Air Quality Management, would be managed
at the field level by three Local Implementation Units (LIUs) to be established
in the Vojewodship of Katowice, Presidency of Krakow, and Wojevodship of
Legnica. The Water Resources Management Component would be managed by the Water
Management Council (WIC) for the upper Vistula River basin.   Salaries and
operating expenses of the warious institutions established under the Project
would be paid out of regular budgetary allocations and are not included in total
project costs. After project completion, these institutions would be expected
to continue functioning. All equipment, supplies and services proposed to be
financed by the Bank would be procured in accordance with Bank procurement and
consultant selection guidelines.
12.       Areas for Bilateral and Multilateral Involvuant.  The Government of
Poland is presently engaged in dlscussions with a numb.'r of bilateral and
multilateral institutions -- both individually and as part of the program
coordinated by the European CommissLon -- concerning assistance in the area of
envlronment protection.   Recognizing the need for consistent pollcy and
Investment p knning, and sound financial management and procurement, the Project
explicitly supports development of a management structure (PIU and LIUs) to
coordinate and implement all environmental investments supported by bilateral
and multilateral instltutions (including the Bank).  The Project would also
facilitate: (a) complementary, parallel-funded urgent actlvlties; and (b) use
of concesslonal financing to support discrete elements of the Project ltself,
extending or substltuting for Bank financing. The latter would be subject to
formal concurrence by the Bank, to ensure that the project objectives are not
compromised.  Bank loan proceeds remaining unutilized as a result of such
substitution would be either reallocated wlth Bank approval for purposes
consistent with the objectives of the loan, or cancelled.
13.       The Project would also provide the basis for numerous parallel and
follow-up activitles and large-scale investments that could be supported through
bilateral and multilateral assistance, including: in the areas of technical
assistance and extension of the monitoring and pollution management approaches
being developed; and large-scale medium term investments covering industrial
pollution control, solid and hazardous waste management and health-related
investments.



- 6 -
14.       AS M J ActS Q .  During negotiations, assurances vere obtained from
the Government of Poland that: (a) before the loan becomes effective the Project
Steering Committee (PSC), Project Implementation Unit (PIU), and Local
Implementation Units (at the regional level) will be established and fully
operational; (b) counterpart funds will be made available on a timely basis; (c)
the PIU will ensure that technical assistance activities will be fully
coordinated between participating Ministries, local governments and other
concerned organizations; and (d) all project accounts, the Special Account, and
the Staten-sut ot Expenses will be audited at the end of each fiscal year by
independent auditors registered in Poland, acceptable to the Bank.
15.       Benefit. The proposed Project would: (a) create an overall framewoxk
for efficie-at absorption of external support for environmental protection in
Poland, (b) provide, through pilot demonstrations in the highest priorlty areas,
the basis for accelerated preparation of investment programs throughout the
country to improve industrial pollution control, regional air quality
management, and integrated water resources management, and (c) make an immediate
contribution toward addressing some of the most severe environmental problems
in Poland. In support of the above, the Project would also: (d) assist in the
preparation of updated policies and the formulation of economic incentives for
environmental protection; and (e) provide for local and foreign training of a
large cadre of Pollsh specialists in administrative, scientific, technical, and
economic aspects of environmental management. In the medium term (e.g. five
years), it is expected that the Project would make a critical contribution on
a larger scale in helping to reduce environmental and related health problems.
16.       Dhsks.    Given  the  prevailing  uncertainty  about  macroeconomic
stabilization and adjustment, the follow-up impact of this Project could be
diminished. The Project would also need to overcome institutional weaknesses
both at the national as well as the provincial levels, and possible
disagreements on priorities and donor efforts. This risk iF reduced by the
detailed attention paid to institutional arrangements and the special emphasis
to be placed on supervision which will monitor progress against detailed output
schedules.
17.       go-dioamental Assessment Reouirements.  In accordance with the Bank's
Operational Directlve on Environmental Assessment (OD 4.00, Annex A), the
proposed Project hAs been olaced in screening category "D" and does not require
an environmental assessment.
18. _6dation.  I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply
with the Articles of Agreement of the Bank and recommend that the Executive
Directors approve the loan.
Barber B. Conable
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
April 2, 1990



-7-
IS~TNAUD COTS hflfl PI&NCIUO PlA
gatiC_nt ,et  o
------- o(t$  iX I   121)- --
1.   Policy, management and
Pr am Coordination                        1.2         2.6       3.S
2.   Industrial Efficiency and
ftvlllonent Reviews                       0.4         3.0       3.4
3.   Air Quality Plannig and
Management                                 1.9        4.5        6.4
4.   Water Resources Plannin  and
anagement                                 3.7         Li        LA
Base Cost                            7.2        1S.8      23.0
Physical Contingencies               0.8         1.4       2.2
Price Contingencies                   LI         LA         Li
Total Project Costs                    3        1L.0      274
5/   Inclusive of taxes and duties.
t/ Inclusive of refinancing of US$100,000 to the Project Preparation Pacility
linancing Plan:                                     Loca2     lenin    Total
-(----(U8$ millio)- _-_
Oovernment                                           9.3          -        9.3
IBID                                                 -         1I" ILi
Total                                                LI        lf          =



-~~~a
Project Element                                Procurement Method          Total
ICa     Lis    Other  C/ Gost
-------- (US  million)-
Specialized Equlpment (including             6.0      ^.5     6.3          14.8
computing Gquipaent,                       (6.0)   (2.5)   (1.0)         (9.5)
Technical Assistance (Consultancy              -       -     12.5          12.5
Services, Training)                          -       -     (8.5)         (8.5)
TOTAL                      6.0     2.5    18.8          27.3
(6.0)   (2.5)   (9.5)        (18.0)
I/ "Other" includes International Shopping, local procurement, direct contractLng
ard procurement of cronsultancy services.
Note:     FLgures in parenthesis ore the respective amounts financed by the
Vorld Bank.
IUDn DIsbMeugnots,
C3te&X                       nu          X of espenditures to be financed
(US$ aillion)
Specialized Equipment              9.5         1002 of foreign exchange
(including computing                        expenditures and 100l   of
equipment)                                 ex-factory cost
Technical Assistance               8.5         100l   of forelgn excbange
(Consultancy ServLices for                  expenditures
Studies, Training)
Estimated IBR0 Disbursements                     IBID Fiscal Year
91       ,=         93         94
----------(US$ Sillion)----------
AnAual                                   2.8        8.0       5.2        2.0
Cumulative                               2.8       10.8      16.0       18.0



-9-
Shedule C
Timetable of Ka, Froject Pro¢essing 8vents
(a)  Time taken to prepare:              3 months
(b)  Prepared by:                        Ministry of Environmental Protection,
Natural Resources and Forestry, with
Bank assistance
(c)  First IBRO mission:                 September 1989
(d)  Appraisal mlssion departure:        November 27, 1989
(,)  Negotiations:                       March 16, 1990
(f)  Scheduled Board Date:               April 24, 1990
(g)  Planned Date of Effectiveness;      July 2, 1990



- 10 -
Schedule D
TIE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN POIULD
A. STATEMENT OF DANK LOINS
(As of December 31, 1989)
As of December 31. 1989. Bank lendlng to Poland had not yet commenced. ,/
D. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of December 31, 1989)
Investment Piscal                     Types of
Number    _Year  Gbilgo             Business          loan  Mqult    Total
---- (US$ milion)----
.=C/P-1038    89  fortex             Agriculture Coop   7.9       -      17.9
IFC/P-1006     90  Export Dev.Bank  Export Credit    2i£    _-           2L.I
Total original gross commitments b/                     47.5      -      47.5
Less cancellations, termnations,
repayments and sales                                  -        -        -
Total _.amitments now held by Fc hy                     47.5             47 45
Total undiabursed                                       40.3     -.      A3
a/ Two loans were approved on February 6, and signed on February 22, 1990: a
loan for US$260 million for an Industrial Export Development Project, and
a loan for US$100 million for an Agro-Industries Ezport Development Project.
The loan agreements are not yet effective.
h Prior to exchange rate adjustments.



- U. -
Teebhical Annex to the Nemwrandum and Ier camdatiom of the President
I . . .for Tecbnical Assistane Projects
A. Prolect Obiectives gad Relation to Sector
1.        The objective of the Project Is to provide immediate assistance to
the Republic of Poland to strengthen its capabilities in the analysis and design
of a series of policy, regulatory, institutional. and investment actions it
plans to undertake to improve environmental quality. The Project would focus
on key issues at the national level, and on operatlonal activities in the three
officially designated "ecological disaster" areas of Katowice, Krakow and Legnica
In southern and western Poland.1 Project components are designed to support
their later extension to other parts of Poland. The Project would also include
support for strengthening Polish capabilities to coordinate donor activities,
and preparation of an environmental action plan to focus government and donor
support on priority environmental improvements. The Project would emphasize the
identification of economlc and institutional means to address priority
environmental concerns. It would support tecbnical assistance and procurement
of specialized equlpment to allow for the improved analysis of the sources and
impacts of air, soil, and water pollution. It would strengthen capabilities to
link knowledge of the sources and impacts of pollution with the development of
strategies for addressing these problems.
2.        By  the  time  of  Project  completion  in  mid-1994.  some  22
environment/efficiency industrial reviews would have been carried out under the
Project and recommendations made in the context of possible restructuring; an
air quality management system for the most affected region of Poland put in
place; and an integrated water management institution established for the heavily
polluted upper Vistula River basin.   In addition, a least-cost investment
strategy for munilcipal solid and hazardous wastes would have been prepared, and
the system of environmental health information substantially improved so as to
help define investment priorities. Finally, a consistent budgeting and work-
program procedure would be in place In the Ministry of Environmental Protection,
Natural Resources and Forestry (MOE), and a medium-term action plan developed
that would also coordinate externally supported investments. The Project would
it  Ther are further environnental coecens in Poland. espcially those related to nature conservatio
in the relatively unspoiled pat. of Poland Cparticulrly the so-called 9reen Lus" area in the north-
east). A relatively small conservation iestment in thea resions could have a high return. Seeral
Institutions ae well-placed to take a leading role On this issue, ad the Polish authorities are
encouraging other organizations to provLde assistane to Poland in this area.



- 12 -
provide assistance in policy formulation, trainting, sad in assuring that the
experience gained during implementation La applied In follow-up activitles.
3.        The Project would yield both immediato and longer-torm improvements
in environmental quality, reduced health risks, and decreased economic costs
from environmental degradation. Immediate benefits would flow from measures
that co-td be quickly implemented such as management procedures, small-scale
InvestmenLts, and regulatory mechanisms. For example: Improved policy at the
national level would enable immediate investments in areas where the fastest
real improvements can be expected; fast-paced training would provide the
necessary skills to ensure continued efficlent operation of investments and
better and more decentralized decision making; and emission inventories and
industrilal            l reviewa can result in rapid improvements in operating
efficiency and hence reduced pollution loads without the need for substantial
investments.
4.        The principal agencies being assisted include: (a) the Ministry of
Environmental Protection, Natural Resources and Forestry (NOE) which has respon-
sibility for environmental protection and natural resources management at the
national level; (b) three provincial governments -- the Vojewodship (province)
of Katowice, Presidency of Krakow, and Vojewodshlp of Legnica, which have
responsibility for environmental protection at the local level; (c) the Ministry
of Industry whlch has responsibility for coordination of industrial policy and
traditionally has controlled state-oaned enterprises; (d) Ninistry of Wealth aud
Social Welfare (MOR) which has responsibility for environmental health
monitoring; (e) Ministry of Physical Development and Construction (hPDC) which
has responsibility for municipal infrastructure including waste managemnt; (f)
individual industrial facilities which vould participate in Project-supported
"industrial efficiency and environment reviews"; and (g) the eleven wojewodships
in the upper Vistula Rlver basin.   Due to the intersectoral nature of
environmental protection programs, the Project would include participatlon by
other national and local government organizations, universities and research
institutes, as well as non-governmental organizations (N¢Os).
5.        The key institutional issues to be addressed under the Project include:
(a) strengthening intersectoral analysis of environmental problems; (b) improved
planning and management of the collection and analysis of scientific, health and
economic data; (c) strengthening the application of scicatific, health and
economic data to the preparation of management and investment strategies; (d)
upgrading of staff capabilities in the operation and maintenance of specialized
equipment; (e) upgrading of staff capabilities in the application of air and
water quality models to environmental management at a regional level; and (f)
development of an improved donor coordination, project review and procurement
capability within MOE.  Special attention would be given to supporting the
development of a river basin approach to water resources planning and management
through assistance for strengthening the Water Management Council for the upper
Vistula River basin.



- 13
D.  Proleat Dscl Q
6.        The proposed Project would address key environmentsl problems in
Poland. It IS topically and geographlcally restricted to assure that adequate
resources are directed to resolving priority problems. The Project consists of
four components which would be implemented collaboratively by the national
Government and provincial authorities. Actions under the Project are summarlsed
in Figure 1.
7.        Pocin.      _ aamut and rrogM  Coordifntio  (30a.pouent 1').  This
component comprises three complementary subcomponents, each of which would
provide the basis for well-informed and consistent declsions regarding urgent
investments and policies, and efficient manageaent of national and local-level
environmental programs (including the proposed Project).
8.        UnaradinA  aaSgement  ysatems and Policy naking Capacity.   The
subcomponent would help put in place, by the middle of 1991, a mechaniam in uME
to develop a conslstent annual and medium-term work program and corresponding
budget. This would involve introduction of accounting and management procedures
(including a management information system), and enable efficient management of
the Ministry as well as provide appropriate coordinatlon of environmental
management tbroughout Poland. Under the subcomponent, advice would also be
provided for: (a) designing a country-wide monitoring strategy (by end 1990);
(b) developing suitable economic instruments and institutional arrangements to
promote efficient natural resource management and environmentally sound operating
and investment decisions; (c) drafting environmental regulations; and (d)
performing the economic analysis of investment proposals for local and foreign
financing. In addition, the subcomponent would provide key individuals the
opportunity to observe state-of-the-art practices throughout the world; and
provide the basls for replicating the experience gained durlng implementation
of the other project components (industrial reviews, air, and water management).
9.        To help carry out these tasks, assistance would be provided to: (a)
engage a core advlsory team of policy experts; (b) implement twinning/training
arrangements for a group of selected environmental staff; (c) hire consultants
to support preparation of Terms of Reference, evaluate proposals and project
implementation experience; and (d) procure office equipment to support these
activities.
10.       The Policy Advisory Team (PAT) would consist of four long-term senior
internationally  recruited  specialists:  two  management  specialists,  an
environmental monitoring systems specialist, and an economist/policy analyst.
In addition, the Team would be supported by one or more Polish interpreters,
until such time as adequate language training has been carried out (NOE has
submitted an extensive proposal for language training support to the European
Cmmunity). The specialists would work jointly for at least five periods of 4-
6 weeks in the MOE, collaborating closely with key Ninistry officials, in
particular in the Department for Planning and Economic Systems, and the Project
Implementation Unit. The PAT would provide direct support as well prepare terms
of reference and advise on recruiting suitable International experts to carry
out substantial specific tasks. rn addition, the Team would carry out training



- 14 -
courses targeted independently at the senior maagement level, at department
staff working level, and at provincial/local level environmental staff. Because
of the immediate need for advice on critical policy issues on which the
Government wants to make quick decisions (regulations, monitoring), the schedule
of the PAT is being accelerated under a Bank PPY advance. Provided suitable
arrangements can be wade, two members of the Team will Initially visit Warsaw
in or about June, 1990, and the whole Team would subsequently be available in
the NOB at one or two month intervals. Additional consultants, and continuation
of the work of all or part of the Team -- beyond the visits budgeted under the
Bank supported Project through the end of 1991 -- could be funded through
bilateral assistance.
11.       The subcomponent would be coordinated by the Project Implementation
Unit in the MOE, in close collaboration with the Department for Planning and
Economic Systems.  The total cost of the subcomponent vould be US$1.8 million
equivalent, of which the Bank would finance US$1.5 million.   Out of this,
US$100,000 would be advanced from the Project Preparation Facility.
12.       Envlronmenal Health. The polluted environment in many parts of Poland
is widely perceived to be a very signlficant factor in reducing the quality of
life, sad it is often mentioned as the most important lssue that should receive
immedLate attention by decision makers. The objective of this subcomponent is
to put in place the prerequisites for making well-informed decisions on where
to concentrate environmental investments to achieve the greatest benefits; which
environmental hazards have the most significant health impacts; and how to treat
groups of people who have been exposed to environmental contaminants.
13.       Specifically, the following activities would be undertaken: (a)
improvement of the quality and reliability of results from environmental and
biological monitoring of food and soil contamination, water quality from
waterworks and public wells, and occupational exposure, by increasing the
frequency of interlaboratory tests, introducing unified analytical methods,
training, and additional on-site verification of unsatisfactory results (by mid-
1991); (b) expansion of a program of biological monitoring to better understand
the relationships between exposure to organochlorine compounds and certain types
of leukemia, and to assess the effects on children  (by end-1992);  (c)
establishment of an inventory of chemicals used or produced in Poland, and
preparation of a priority list of hazardous chemicals and technologies (by end
1991); (d) improvement of health data collection, analysis and reporting, and
correlation with  data  from  environmental monitoring  (by  mid-1993);  (e)
evaluation, by mid-1993, of the health impacts of environmental pollution in the
27 "areas of ecological hazard" (the areas were originally defined on the basis
of ambient pollution levels, without reference to health); (f) determination of
the sources of air pollution which have the greatest health impact, by means of
microenvironment monitoring in selected populations, and epidemiological
assessment of health status (*Total Exposure Assessment"); (g) introduction in
mid-1991 of a series of training seminars to enhance knowledge in chronic disease
(environmental) epidemiology in Poland; and (h) establishment of twinning
arrangements between the National Institute of Hygiene and foreign research
institutions, to facilitate completion of the above activities and to develop
working relationships with leading centers of research.



- 15 -
14.       The subcomponent would be coordinated by the National Institute of
Hygiene in the Ministry of Health and Social Welfare, and would involve the
participation of the General Sanitary Inspectorate, the Institute of Rural
Medicine, the Nofer Institute of uccupational Nedicine, and the Institute of
Mother and Child. The total cost of the subcomponent would be US$1.5 million
equivalent, of which the Bank would finance US$0.7 million.
15.       Municipal S4lid and Hazardous Waste StrategZ. Municipal solid wastes
represent a major problem in Poland, due to the massive total volume already
accumulated and dispersed in about 650 dumping grounds throughout the country,
and the large additional volume (about 126,000 m' or 31,000 tons) collected each
day. The problem is exacerbated by the fact that few municipal waste dumps are
equlpped with compactors to reduce the volume of refuse. There is increasing
public opposition to new disposal sites (especially in response to widespread
improper operation), and the issue of where to deposit new municipal solid wastes
and what to do with existing sites is becoming critical.
16.       There is also growing concern about how to handle toxic wastes.  As
part of the move toward decentralization and privatization of the Polish economy,
it is to be expected that numerous small and medium scale industries will
develop, many of which may generate hazardous and/or toxic wastes. This is
therefore a good time to put in place a broad-based incentive system that would
prevent uncontrolled dumping of hazardous/toxic wastes by a large number of
dispersed enterprises. Already, there is insufficient knowledge of the location
of existing toxic waste sites, and the process of carrying out a comprehensive
inventory needs to be strengthened.
17.       The Project would therefore support: (a) preparation of a medium-term
least-cost investment strategy for municipal solid waste and hazardous waste
management (by end 1992); (b) completion of a comprehensive inventory and
assessment of municipal and hazardous waste sites throughout Poland (by end
1991); (c) development of a waste management policy and incentive program that
would establish a fee and cost recovery system at the local and regional levels,
and address institutional arrangements between hazardous vaste producers and
local governments (by end 1992); and (d) technical assistance and
training/twinning for selected local government staff to design local initiatives
to raise public awareness with respect to waste management problems.
18.       The least-cost investment strategy would be prepared for three
representative municipalities of different size. Assistance would be provided
under the Project to evaluate the results and to provide the basis for extending
the conclusions to other municipalities. The three cities/towns tentatively
chosen are: (i) Warsaw agglomeration (population 2.5 million) as a major city
and one urgently requiring measures to address the municipal waste problem; (ii)
Tychy (population 190,000) in ecologieally damaged Upper Silesia, as an example
of one of the 22 towns with between 100,000 and 200,000 inhabitants; and (iii)
Leczyca (population 16,000) in southern Plock Wojewodship, as an example of one
of the very large number of a predominantly agricultural small towns.



- 16 -
19.       The subcomponent would be coordinated by the Institute of Spatial and
Nunwcipal Economy (in the Ministry of Physical Development and Construction),
and the Environmental Protection Institute (in N0).  The former would be
primarily responsible for municLpal solid waste management, the latter for
hazardous/toxic waste management. The total cost of the subcomponent has been
tentatively estimated at US$0.5 million equivalent. The Bank would finance
US$0.4 million to cover the cost of equipment sad the foreign exchange cost of
training and consultancy services.
20.       The preliminary overall cost of this component is VS$3.8 million
equlvalent. Of this, the Bank would finance the US$2.6 million required to
cover the cost of equipment and the foreign exchange cost of training an,
consultancy services.
21.       Induxtrial Eff LeJIM   V4            Reviem (wComponent 21). Current
economic reforms are creating an increasingly favorable climate for industries
to improve their environmental compliance. While many environmental problems
will take time to be resolved, the Government's recent actions with regard to
price reform are likely to yield benefits in the short term as industries adapt
to higher input prices by conserving resources and hence creating less pollution.
The process of industrial restructuring has begun, with strong support from the
Bank (through the Industrial Export Development Project and two proposed
operations - a Structural Adjustment Loan in FY90 and an Industrial Restructuring
Project in FY91).  For a large part of Polish industry (starting with the
Government's list of the 80 worst industrial polluters), the proposed enforcement
of environmental standards will be a major element in enterprise restructuring
plans. At present, there is only limited expertise available in Poland for
enterprises that wish to integrate environmental concerns into an industrial
restructuring plan.   The objective of this component is to: (a) develop a
capability within Poland to conduct industrial efficiency and envirormental
reviews; (b) conduct reviews to assist economically viable industrial enterprises
Identify least-cost ways to move towards compliance with environmental standards;
and (c) provide foreign training in industrial pollution management and control.
22.       The component would support activities in the Katowice, Krakow, and
Legnica areas, and would consist of: (a) local methodological training for
approximately 120 individuals in the planning, conduct and application of
industrial efficiency and environment reviews; (b) about 10 diagnostic reviews
of industries; (c) 12 detailed reviews of industries; and (d) foreign training
for approximately 40-50 individuals in industrial pollution management and
control. The reviews conducted under the program by joint teams of foreign and
local experts would provide a technical basis for improvements in management,
process supervision, and effectively direct local and foreign currency financed
environmental improvements in Industrial enterprises. Priority would be given
to diagnostic and detailed reviews of industrial enterprises which are
anticipated to require foreign expertise for their analysis and correction.
Training opportunities would be provided to personnel from national and local
environmental authorities, industrial enterprises, and consulting organizations.
Special emphasis would be given, through formal and informal methods, to the
"training of trainers" in order to make the practice self-sustaining in
industrial enterprises and to support extension to other parts of Poland.



- 17 -
23.       By mid-1992, the following outputs would be expected: (a) a large
cadre of professional environment review staff would be available to industrial
enterprises and government agencies; (b) a series of enterprise case studies
would be available as models for studies in similar enterprises throughout
Poland; (c) 12 enterprise Action Plans would be available as a basis for
investment decisions and support from the international community; and (d) a
core group of industry and government staff would have been exposed to the
operational procedures of environmental regulatory agencies and industrial
enterprises in countries with similar industrial structures.
24.       The benefits anticipated from the Industrial Efficiency and Environment
Reviews would be: (a) an enbanced local capability to design industrial
restructuring programs that also improve environmental performance; (b) reduced
air and water pollution and output of solid wastes from improved operating
practices in major polluting industrles; (c) more rapid disbursement of financial
support from the international community to Polish industry; and (d) improved
interaction between industry and government on design and enforcement of
environmental regulations.
25.       The component would be coordinated by the Ministry of Industry in
collaboration with the Vojewodship of Katowice, Presidency of Krakow and
Wojewodship of Legnica.   Industrial enterprises in the project area would
participate on a voluntary basis in the program.  The total cost of this
component is estimated at US$3.4 million equivalent. Of this, the Bank would
finance the US$3.0 million required to cover the foreign exchange cost of
technical services and training.
26.       U r On^8 _ t ("Co_ponemt 30). This component would support
the development of a comprehensive air pollution abatement strategy for the
Katowice and Krakow region.   This would provide MNO, MOR, N0I, and local
governments the information to make cost-effective decisions to reduce current
levels of air pollutants. Secondary objectives of the component would include:
(a) improvement of the ambient air quality monitoring capability in Katowice
Wojewodship and Presidency of Krakow; (b) development of the technical
infrastructure to perform consistent and reliable emission inventories, testing
and engineering evaluations for major air pollution sources in the region; (c)
development of the capablilty for using atmospheric dispersion modeling as a
regulatory tool for decision making; (d) development of an episode management
system for extreme air quality conditions which put the public health at
significant risk; and (e) formation of a regulatory intrastructure for the long-
term management of air quality in the region. Support would also be provided
to improve air management capabilities in the Vojewodship of Legnica.
27.       The Regional Air Management Unit in the MNO would serve as the chair
of the coordinating committee for the Local Implementatlon Units (LIUs) in
Katowice and Krakow, to assure standardization in data collection, supervision
of dispersion modeling studies, and preparation of a least-cost management
strategy for air pollution control at a regional scale. The component would
provide assistance to MOE, MOD,  OI, and local governments in the form of
techical assistance, training and equipment. The training program would include



- 18 -
personnel from the national government and outside the project area to allow for
extension of approaches demonstrated in the component elsewhere in Poland.
Activities supported under this component would be coordinated with the United
States Environmental Protection Agency (USEPA) supported program to establish
an air quality monitoring network in the Krakow area.
28.       By late 1992, the following outputs would be expected: (a) installation
of a 10 station ambient air quality monitoring network in Katowice; (b) provision
of 4 mobile units and manual equipment for data collection of point-source air
emissions; (c) training of 4 local survey teams and conduct of 80 emission
inventories and control evaluations; (8) provision of computer equipment and
software to strengthen analytical capabilities in dispersion modeling, regional
air modeling and management decisions; (e) local training for approximately 100
and foreign training for approximately 20 professional and technical staff in
air quality policy and management, analysis of data, dispersion modeling and
health impacts; (f) implementation of a management system for episodes of extreme
air qualLty conditions; (g) preparation of a health risk assessment; and (h)
least-cost analysis available for review.
29.      The benefits anticipated from the Air Qualfiy  anagement component
are: (a) an enhanced capability to monitor and manage air quality on a regional
scale in real time; (b) increased use of emission inventories and control
evaluatlons to provide facility-specific analyses of cost-effective means to
reduce air pollution through management and investment; (c) reduced air pollution
as the result of adopting measures to reduce emissions from selected point
sources; (d) strengthoned integration of health effects information in air
quality management decisions; and (e) more rapid disbursement of foreign
financial support for reducing regional air pollution.
30.      The component would be coordinated by the NOR in collaboration with
the Vojewodship of Katowice, Presldency of Krakow and Vojewodshlp of Legnica.
The total cost of this component is estimated at US$6.4 million. Of this, the
Bank would finance the US$4.5 million required to cover the foreign exchange
cost of technical services, training and equipment.
31.      Vater Resources Nanagement ("Goaponent 4').  The objectives of this
component are to: (a) support the development of an improved water resources
management capability within the eleven wojewodships in the upper Vistula River
basin, and (b) serve as a demonstration of integrated river basin management in
Poland. It would be Implemented by a Vater Management Council (VNC) which would
have offices in the western and eastern sections of the basin. The component
would assist in the improved management of the quantity and quality of surface
and groundwater. It would support measures to improve water management, revlew
demand reduction to reduce the investment and operational budget for water
supply, and assist in the design of a phased least-cost investment program for
the reduction of point and non-point source water pollution in the management
area.
32.      By late 1992, the following outputs would be ewpected: (a) strengthened
capability (through twinning relations with a foreign agency) to evaluate, plan
and manage complex programs involving the use of regulations, price incentives



- 19 -
and fees, menagement interventions and infrastructure investments; (b)
establishaent of a network of approximately 20 water quality monitoring or
warning stations to upgrade the collection of surface water quality data; (c)
provision of 4 sets of equipment for the collection of groundwater samples; (d)
strengthening of technical capabilities and equipment for the management of
stream flow, especially floods; (e) provision of 11 sets of portable equipment
for sampling, monitoring and field analysis to control municipal and indrstrial
effluents; (f) upgrading of two environmental laboratories, one in the western
and one in the eastern subbasin; (g) Implementation of a management demand
program including water use audits, leak detection, repair, metering and user
fees; (h) establishment of a geographic Information center; (i) implementation
of a public awareness program; and (j) least-cost analysis available for review.
33.       Training in river basin management would be conducted in Poland and
in other countries with an emphasis on the identification, analysis and
resolution of problems through administrative, economic, engineering, financial,
legal and scientific methods. Training in technical areas such as flood control,
metering, sampling and leak detection would be implemented by both seminars and
fieldwork. Under the component approximately 200 persons would participate in
local seminars and training courses. Support would be provided for approximately
50 persons to obtain short-term foreign training. Because the upper Vistula
River basin water resources management program is a demonstration activity,
component supported training would be open for selected administrative and
technical personnel from other proposed river basin management areas in Poland.
The INC would supervise the use of analytical, laboratory and monitoring
equipment provided under the component. Equipment provided under the component
would be selected to assure its compatibility with the national environmental
monitoring system which is currently being developed by the NOE.
34.       The benefits anticipated from the Water Resources Management component
are: (a) effective demonstration of the integrated approach to water resources
management at the basin level; (b) development of a model organization for
regional management of vater resources; (c) an enhanced local capability to
monitor and manage water quality, with a reduced risk of contamination of
domestic water supplies; (d) reduction in the loss of water for urban and
industrial uses and reduced demand for new construction of infrastructure for
water supply; (e) an improved capability to assess causes and develop strategies
to control point and non-point sources of water pollution; (f) more rapid
disbursement of bilateral and multilateral financial assistance; and (g) expanded
development of regional water management institutions in Poland.
35.       The component would be coordinated by the NOE in collaboration with
the Water Management Council for the eleven wojewodships in the upper Vistula
River basin. The total cost of the component is estimated at US$9.4 million
equivalent. Of this, the Bank would finance the US$5.7 million required to
cover the foreign exchange cost of technical services, training and equipment.



DonftiVtics~~(    l,pw
1.~~~~~z" , __e
ii-~~~~O                                             MX.
1>r7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P                       4°~t     U
a.  l4lZer Zo _b_ ~~Zf
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~At
~~~~~~~~~~~~.: .... ...                                               :   .   _   :-



-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M0
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SNMO." . .........



- 22 -
C.   tQJeet d        r        ad I      n
36.       The Project would be Implemented cooperatively by the MOE, MOH, xOI,
NPMC, and local governments In Katowice, Krakow, and Legnica. The MOE would
have lead responsibility for all components except the Industrial Efficiency and
Environment Review component (coordinated by the OI), *ad the Environmental
Health subcomponent (coordiasted by the National Institute of Hygiene, NOR).
In the case of the Water Resources Planning and Management Component, a total
of eleven wojevodships would participate whose activities would be coordinated
by a Water Management Council with two field offices (Figure 2).
37.       Piolect Steering Committee.  A Project Steering Committee (PSC) would
be formed under the chairmanship of the Ninister of Environmental Protection,
Natural Resources and Forestry, to provide policy guidance and to oversee
implementation of the Project. The PSC would include policy and technical level
representatives from the following organizations: NOE, NOR, 0X1, MPDC, National
Bank of Poland, Vojevodship of Katowice, Presidency of Krakow, Wojevodship of
Legnica, upper Vistula River basin Water Management Council, and a representative
from a Polish non-governmental environmental organization.   Proposals for
reallocation of the Bank loan funds between approved components would be
formulated by the PSC. The PSC would meet quarterly.
38.       Pro1ect Implementation Unit.  The Project would be implemented by a
Project Implementation Unit (PIU) located in the MOE. The Unit would serve both
as the PSC secretariat and as a liaison between the project beneficiaries and
the Bank; eusure the day-to-day management of the Project; compile quarterly
financial projections, prepare project status reports and submit them to the PSC
and then the Bank; and coordinate activities under the Policy, Regulation and
Program Coordination Component. The Unit would have a full-time Director, Deputy
Director, Foreign Assistance Specialist, Economic Review Specialist, Financial
Management and Purchasing Expert, Accountant, bilingual secretarial and clerical
support. A panel of four Polish experts would be appointed to provide support
with regard to policy and regulations, water resources, air quality, and
industrial efficiency and environment reviews. Expert advisors should bave
significant practical expetience in the planning, implementation and evaluation
of applied environmental management programs. Salaries and other local costs
for the PIU would be borne by the MOE.
39.       Local Implementation Units. At the field level, the Project would be
supervised by the Local Implementation Units (LIUs) to be located in the
Department of Environment In the Wojevodship of Katowice, Presidency of Krakow,
and Wojewodship of Legnica. Each unit would have a part-time Local Coordinator
(the Director of the Department of Environment or his designee), a full-time
Deputy Coordinator, full and/or part-time technical staff as deemed appropriate
by the local authority, and a bilingual secretary. LIUs would interface with
the PIU, prepare local work plans, coordinate component-supported activities,
and compile quarterly project status reports for the PLU. Salaries and other
local costs for the LIUs would be borne by the local authorities.
40.       Water Management Council  MIC).  The Water Resources Planning and
Management Component would support the strengthening of the Water Management



- 23 -
SrEnCTURgt FOR PROJRCT DmINST uTO  ml          u[LMENAION
(Figure 2)
NUlnister of hnvironmint
Inter-MinAsterial Project Steer2ng Committee
Project Implementation Unit
Lagnica           Katowice           Krakow           1   Upper Vistula
local             Local              Local                River Basin
Implementation    Implementation     Implementation       Gater management
unit              Unit               U2it                 Councll
I     .      
2 mawje"^^iF    9 woJewkiZi



- 24 -
Council for the upper Vistula River basin. The WC involves the participation
of eleven vojovodships which would be supported by a western office (Blielako-
Biala and Katowice) and an eastern office (Kielce, Krakow, Kroano, Noy Sacz,
Prezemysl, Rzeszow, Tarnobrzeg, Tarnow and Zamosc).   The WIC would promote
cooperative efforts between the participating wojewodships to assure
standardization of data collection, integration of water quantity and quality
data, coordination of technical assistance and training, and preparation of a
least-cost strategy for water resources management at a regional scale.
41.       The WIC would have a full time Coordinator, Deputy Coordinator,
technical and support staff as necessary.  WIC personnel would be distributed
between the western and eastern field offices ln order to provide adequate
support to address the diversity of water resources management problems which
occur in the upper Vistula River basin.   The VNC would prepare plans,
implementation schedules, and quarterly reports on activities and submit them
to the PIU. Recognizing the demonstration nature of the WNC and its program of
activities, salaries and other local costs would be borne by the MOB. Following
successful demonstration of the integrated approach to water resources management
at the baain level, it is anticipated that participating wojewodships would
assume the local costs.
42.       Flow of Funds and Reolication of Xnst1tutional Arrangems.    TO
ensure that the institutions created under the Project would survive project
implementation, salaries and recurrent expenses of the PrU, LIUs and WIC would
be paid out of regular national and local budgetary allocations and are not
treated as part of the Project; they are not included in total project costs.
The institutional arrangements would continue to serve as a model even under the
country's new administrative structure proposed by the Polish Parliament. That
structure, which would increase the powers of municipalities at the expense of
the provinces (wojewodships), would require strong regional environmental
mnaAgement institutions to ensure efficient handling of environmental problems
between local jurisdictions.
43.       Oualif ications and Training of the FIU. LIUs and WIC Staff.  Key
personnel to be appointed to the PIU, LIUs and WIC would also be expected to
speak English. The MOE and OI would identify and prepare a proposal on training
needs of PIu, LIUs and 1NC staff (both specialized and language training) which,
at the MOE's request, could be financed by the lank loan funds.
D. Proiect Cost. Financilg. Disbursement. and Reporting and Auditing
44.       Project Costs.  The total project cost (shown in Schedule A of the
Memorandum of the President) is estimated at about US$27.3 million equivalent.
Details of the cost estimates have been included in the Project Working Papers.
45.       The project costs have been estimated based on the data collected by
the Bank mission. All local costs have been converted into US$ at an exchange
rate of US$1 - 9,500 Zlotys; the US$ costs have been then subjected to physical
contingencies (10) and price contingencies (15X for local costs and 5X for
foreign exchange costs) in line with the Bank's present price projections. The



- 25 .
estimates for studies, consultancy assigpments, and tralinng are based on typical
current costs for such assignments.   It is assumed that there would be a
aubstantial involvement of internationally recruited consultants in all the
project components.
46.      Finaacing., A &umary of the financing plan for the Project is also
shown in Schedule A. The foreign exchange/ox-factory cost requirements for the
four  components  are  US$18.0 million.    The  local  currency  requirements
(US$9.3 million) would be met by the Republic of Poland with its own resources.
47.       The Republic of Poland would be the borrower.  The NOE would be the
project implementation agency.  The Ninistry of Finance would allocate the
foreign exchange available from the loan to the budgets of the MOE. The Ministry
of Finance would also make budget allocations for the incremental local costs
of implementing the Project. These costs would be maitly the funds for hiring
local consultants and for logistical support.
48.       Disurnemants. Bank loan funds would finance 100l  of eligible direct
foreign exchange expenditures, and ex-factory costs of equipment and materials;
and 100l of foreign exchange expenditures for consultancy services and training.
Disbursements for contracts valued at less than US$200,000 equivalent would be
an the basis of statements of expenditures which detail the Individual
transactions. The documentation to support these expenditures would be retained
by the PIU, audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, and would
be made available for review by the Bank upon request.   Applications for
withdrawal against contracts valued at more than US$200,000 equivalent would be
fully documented.
49.      Stecial Account. To facilitate disbursements from the Bank loan, MOE
would establish a revolving fund account. The Bank would make an Initial deposit
of US$1.0 million into this account, which would be equivalent to about four
months of disbursement under the loan. NOE would submit withdrawal applications
for replenishment of the revolving fund on a monthly basis or when US$300,000
has been withdrawn, whichever comes first.
50.       The estimated disbursement schedule for the Project is in Schedule B.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1993, and the Closing
Date would be June 30, 1994.
51.       Reportin8 and Audit nS. During negotiations, assurances were obtained
that the revolving fund, all project accounts, and statements of expenditure
would be audited at the end of each fiscal year by independent auditors
registered in Poland. Such audits would have to be carried out in accordance
with international standards undertaken by auditors qualified for thls task.
Audit reports for the preceding flscal year would be made available to the Bank
no later than by the end of June each year.
52.       To  enable  MOE  and  the  PSC  to  monitor  progress  of  project
implementation, the PIU would furnish the Bank with a series of reports on a
regular basis. Such reports would include, inter alia: (a) quarterly progress
reports on implementation, in a format and degree of detail acceptable to the



- 26 .
Bank; (b) audited financial statements within six months after the close of each
Polish financial year; and (c) records, financial statements, other progress
reports, or other types of information that the Bank may request from time to
time. In addition, MOD vould prepare its contribution to the Project Completion
Report within three months of the Closing Date, covering all related activities
during project implementation. Assurances in these respects were obtained during
negotiations.
53.       Progect Supervision. Given the multi-component nature of the Project,
involving extensive tecbnical assistance and training, project supervision input
by Bank staff Is expected to be above average, particularly in the early stage
of project implementation.  The PIU, LIUs and INC would facillitate project
implementation and supervisLon. In order to ensure a clear understanding of
project objectives and implementation arrangements as well as effective follow-
up of project implementation both on the part of the PXm, LIUs and VNC staff and
the Bank staff, a draft supervision plan has been developed and agreed with the
Borrower. This plan includes: (a) the schedule of key Bank supervision inputs
and the skill mlx required; (b) specialist staff input for review of technical
assistance components, procurement documentation, and technical assistance; (c)
aspects of the Project that require special Bank attention during supervision
(e.g., follow-up on institutlonal development program, training program, etc.);
and (d) the Polish contrlbution to supervision, lncluding monitoring and
reporting, and staff participation in supervision missions.
Z. ProcureLet
54.       Procurement would be the responsibility of the PlU located in the NOE.
All equipment, supplies and services proposed to be financed by the Bank would
be procured in accordance with the Bank procurement guidelines through
International Competitive Bidding (ICB) except in cases where Limited
International Bidding (IIB). international shopping and direct contracting are
more appropriate. LIB would be used for the procurement of items for which
there are only a limited number of suppliers. Under LIB, the PrU would seek
bids from a list of potential suppliers broad enough to ensure competitive
prices. For items of a proprietary nature obtainable only from one source, and
for items where compatibility with existing equipment is required, direct
contracting would be used. ICB would be used for all goods packages with an
estimated value of US$1.0 million and above.  For bid comparisons under ICB,
domestic manufacturers would be eligible for a margin of preference of l5X or
the prevailing customs duty to the non-exempt importers, whichever is lower.
International shopping based on comparing price quotations obtained from at
least three suppliers from at least two eligible source countries would be used
for smaller value items estimated to cost US$200,000 or less per contract, up
to an aggregate amount not exceeding US$1.0 million equivalent.
55.       Approximately six ICB and five LIB packages estimated to cost
US$6.0 million and US$2.5 million equivalent, respectively, have been identified.
International shopping and direct contracting would be used for procurement of
computing and other smaller equipment estimated to cost approximately US$1.0
million in the aggregate. Consultancy services, which are expected not to exceed



- 27 -
US$8.5 million, would be selected and procured according to the Guidelines for
the selection of Consultants (procurement arrangements are showmin Schedule 3).
56.       All procurement documentation for ICB and LID packages with an
estimated cost of US$500,000 equivalent and above, and for all consultancy
services would be subject to the Bank's prior review.
57.       The PIlI's Procurement Section would centrally carry out the procurement
work and coordinate the requirements for equipment and services. Delivery to
the project beneficiaries in the Katowice, Krakow, and Legnica areas would occur
via the Local Implementation Units and the Vater Nanagement Council. The PIU's
Procurement Section would also contribute to the periodic progress reports.
F. R
58.       During Negotiations, assurances vere obtained from the Government of
Poland that:
(a) a Project Steering Committee, Project Implementatlon Unit,
and Local Implementation Units will be formally established
and fully operational prior to loan effectiveness;
(b) counterpart funds will be available on a timely basis;
(e) the proposed special account will be established and managed
on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank;
(d) all project accounts, the Special Account, and the Statement
of Expenses will be audited at the end of each fiscal year
by independent auditors registered in Poland, acceptable to
the Bank; and
(e) audited accounts and other accounts will be furnished to the
Bank in a timely manner, and a comprehensive Project
Completion Report will be prepared.
59.       MDR has provided assurances that proper physical facilities will be
provided for the PIU, LIUs and INC.



- 28 -
Schedumle I
mvn Rom     AAo                     ROJECT
KEY PROJECT AC TI
alEor ActiY                                             TiWLvt                        ReapgoMIblUe ASncy
Start/Complete
A.    no
1.    E_sh  1W SIeesg C<nua  (PSC)                      May 1.t log                           MOE
.    EsabAh FMoject mpbm     _wt
unf (RU, biid  Pocumnet
Ufat                                              MAh 15 1990                           MOE
&     Eabsb LW   bNplmWsa§                             fifty 1. 10                            LaOc Goum n   t
Unfla (UUs).                                                                           In lCAlblc  lCVaOW
mi  -wgie
4.   Vwll PmlcOpdIn   o loed                            WM u1b   10                           MOE
bY UPp  Vkbala 1F   S
wbA  Manegein    cou Coic# (WMC)
5.    R         eMOa"  nnedss dy                        Jimelt 1000/July 31, 100              RlU
1.    EsiNbM $peOWl Aeoun                               Juty 2.1090                           MOE
c.    to       *     h                                       Z
1.    Appobt Cordlnelufor                               AP" it 1060                           MOE
2.    far. TO06 lot Co _suturcy uule4s puoded
urdw PPF and toe  n for no Mwangemes and
POlVcy e omponen                                  AP4U Z. 100/JUly 31.1 S90             PtU
3.    Upa          si     t s#ems endm po"y
Ming eaqpuy                                      May 1. 100i0/J   2Q. IM               MOE/PtI
4.    Sudylo p      Iw   bullonal Swm for
handlnm            r_ esource                     JUIy 2 190/OeCeuie31. 19D0            MOE
Lauage tab"g   a             and In PClai              AbJU t. 1.1090/June 1. 103            MOUU
0.    Manage_me  TinIa                                  Ocber 1. I0/Jun, I. 1903              MOE/RU
7.    Tnngp a                                           October 1.1 M0/Ju   . 1S93            MOE/PU
8     toLe te*ing l _ngm         amd poec
malls                                             Januy 15. 1811/JMe 1.193             RPU
a     ealwlion   Pod  componu_t                         JW  1. 103/Dcombr 31.10               MOE/RUS
10. tQ uay corOl pm                                     Jfe 1. 100/Deeme 31.1092                alM"  l tdcHygewe
I1. 8oogd   m            destn             tam  1. 19/Dembe M.1092                         Nt      n _nOde d R      *en
12    Chetmc  nu y                                      June 1.1 t90/Decmbe tS.1              buwat for Oocup. Med.
13.   InProln heb dab syin                              Dcmber31. 1900/Jun 30, 109           Niona _lnl  d chyen
14.   e_skatlof  27 arm  r ecs lca
hl    alt                                         Jam 1I,1log/ Je   109                  cule f    cp. Med.
1.      rou   on d ta exposure    se
m_tod,                                            .m  1.1090/AMu 28,1001                N n   UIlA d Hygene
16.t   9tat    setnss for Chrnc Disas
17,July 31.1 06/Dceer 31.1093                                                            Ifone  siuls, dl_ H n
1?. 1o,dn  InIgnul                                   Juissey 15. I91/Deensbe 31,1003       Naffllna Aid -is ti HygieneM



- 29 -
Schedule I (continuMd)
Major ActivL ty kImtable                                                            Responsible A&encY
Start/Complete
--
I&    mm" T, S CwwSinsy SWAMe fPr
SON~ MM Ha I4oim WMtef                      May 1. iw0/JIUM  ak IMo             mu
19.   gut duv to Geweo  badiSW  hwednwn
W _pow"6"tg   or           Ieh          Z2 1999/DeOeWn   3t.169                     ME/Wm
t.    Appod  Coo_bhdor  Componnt                      AVI It4  O                          N
I     Upa. LM et dRast FSWflh
or PAW"                                         MNW 1. 1990/Jim. ak sos             MO/Pfl/UW
3. Campd. MTOP for CWansuic
SuilcsMu Tedung                                 Jul1 itwo0                          MOI/PU/LPAJ
4.    AppNio  Ild caf     WdSM for ftem
a     ad end tWiang oree                                   M. 1wo                  mOI/PW
*.    Trs#4mh&&w pamm                                 Feb. 5 199/Jum 3  13  2             MO/PW
- Lod b-uud  in elh w melowdol                        Fe. 5,1991/Jum 30.1062              MOIt
7.    Praguu of dandbofto (uOe                        Feb. % 1991Jim 30.1092               Oxh/PW/LWS
6     PlWn  d dedlDed rgew                            Fe. 519/Jm 301 M                    M1/PIU/UW
9.    ForeI   n pigni (tdy Wom1
mdandbdetiipe)                                  Mmercb 4.191/im. 30.1992            Mh/Plu
1.  #now oomlor bCmponet                             1Ap9 1. 1                            mm
2.   Pop ml ISM for Ritglana Air
emay uj*                                        Apt 15. 19)/A. a tiw                MOE
*.    Campbb TOR Se Mm" SW  MaNe
A& Monto EqUpOent                               Jty 2 iw                            MO/U
4     Campbb TOP for Tmraiin in Arel tZy
Mmmge- -0 SW UpOleesa Mode"in                  July 2.1990                          MOE/PIU
5.    Compute TOR ta Endsdoan Control twwenofle       J*ulyo.w)                           MOE/P1U
*.    CaMPe. TOMta fr "MeMD Oak  $es MeiS
LeuOW CdMiAtn                                   July2. I99
7.    HIt CoMaimt t Ar Oualty Mulgennt
MM OlmSla I M_odI1a               1Mbe 1. Iwo/Ooee3r, 1SIII  PP
9.    Mmt COAneiat for HEath OakAm"smn SWfld             -OlIIMOGM3,O                      I
8.    H I"C        _hrnftt   0m M*-M  -, a"/eo 199 4
La       d ,ond Mw*f                            Nber 1 1I990/Ooeer31t 1M.           FlU/MOH
1a    Proeu S oWine Equimen for MMent Air
Oudly Monein (Fhm  Q                            juw y 1. 1991/Meck 29. 1991         PIU/UU
1t.   Pre Equpment o P*84tm Mnatn                     Febny 1. IM/Much 29. 19             PIU/UU
12    Rco  SndWaO Equipment for APp_disn Mtr
myf  MWoguSen (PR=* U)                          July 1. 1991/Sepembe 30.91          FWl P/UU



- 30 -
Schedzle 1 (continued)
Maor ActivyL=                                            imetable                                            A&2=
Start/Complete
1.   ApPtCordIWAorCampon)oen                          AI 16 1M                             mO
2a    OuIpsWf  WM=l for Vafamt FIel 063cms            Mq 1. 101                              OELu G0ewimIMfl
8.    Eftf Wuim Smd EsmU  PANi ClUe.                  am 2, 1I6                            MOE/Loewad osumit
4.    P _Wp  TIOt fw EqUlpmw* f WMC Ollo              Ju_  4. 1S6/J.t 3t1.16               WOE/WMC
L.    We Consiimisw Ffar  mu*  Swrambo
l     _andwlm   M aGsagmtlU IaI alon  Systm      _m  4. 100/Jt 31.1S90 IMOEIU
a     1Vni MrM ISnb                                   Jifz 21s/Jua. a 166                  MOEPIU/WMC
7.    NW OaIwaUi  for 6ggmr Plmuig                    July D2. 99/Juy 31. 190              MOEW/MWAC
6.    Pupao "tor ---mtn (I PanW*l OqAMuW
for snlbl mnd mdS;ui (0) glnundl
tQ n_ dn b  lMM* delelon   _ n                      2. 190/Ssplb 2,. 1690            MOE/WMC
a.    p1ocm eqbb       for WMC Oman      e                i, 15 19/S9Wmbr 23.1160          MOE/FlU
1ta    Coup   TOUF bfr Gbogiupio lnbn   Sythm        U$Do        T. lgo                    MOE/FlU
11.   ComnpW  Torn  fr ptoist far to Ennmow1
Laborm                                          Seteber t9bw 7.1 60                  MOE/MU
12.   Proaw GbographloI Olmima"? Syalum               July 2. 1690/JaMNmy?. 1I=            MOE/MU
1&    coupe. TO_ e far madlg mid Wmn
1a    tu p en _t_                        Och~~~~eenbr3. 1660                 MOE/FlU
14.   Wowe: 0) palates equipen for ampqn anm
mMoin  (IQ eqWpen for Wrouidoster
man*Ag 00 eqIpen fo Im diewdlo                  DecWmbe 3. 1660/Febsuuy 23.19SM      MOE/MU
1I.   CompeteTOUtsw Wanr  c-iamationn                 Decmber% o1w6                        MOEf*WM
1la    Prom. .Qiipnie  for Nwo SNwirnene.
tabardatoe                                      Ocdher 23. 116/Febtuury 4.16I1       MOE/FlU
17.   P1nnoew.qlpenfor..
momllcsn                                        Sepember 30. 1160/Apd 1. 1961        MOE/MU
1I&    OMu up Eidrounude l*catoade                    OCloS  7,19SM                        MOE/MU



- 31 -
Schedule2
ZQIhU
VIROMMTRA GT M UCT
TXrainlng Rdr
1.        The PI would prepare a training needs survey in cooperation with the
MOR, MOI, MOH, MPDC, local governments and the INC. This survey would identify
potential administrative, economic, engineering, health, legal, scientific and
technical pe:sonnel who would potentially be provided with local and foreign
training under the Project. The survey would collect standardised information
concerning potential candidates including how the training received would be
used In their work situation. This process would include standardised testing
of the foreign language capabilities of candidates proposed for training outside
Poland.
Eauinment Related Training
2.        Terms of Reference for the supply of data analysis, environmental
monitoring and laboratory equipment would require the supplier to provide on-
site training in application, operation and maintenance. The main beneficiaries
of this training would be:
a.   PIU, LIU and INC staff;
b.  NOR and local government staff participating in monitoring
of ambient and point-source air pollution;
C.   research  institute  staff  involved  in  air  pollution
dispersion analysis;
d. INC and local government staff involved in water quality
monitoring and water quantity management programs; and
e.   environmental laboratory staff in two facilities to be
upgraded under the project and personnel assigned to the
geographic information system centers.
Local Trainina
3.        The Project would support extensive local training by foreign and
local experts. The main beneficiaries of this training would be:



- 32 -
a.   NOB  and  OI  staff  involved  in  the  development  of
environmental policy and regulations;
b.   NOR staff involved in applied research on chronic diseases
and health effects;
c.   MPDC and NOR staff involved in municipal solid and hazardous
vaste management;
d.   NOI,  NOE,  local government,  industry staff and  local
consultants in the planning, conduct and application of
industrial efficiency and environment reviews;
e.   NOE, NOR and local government staff  in the planning,
installation, operation and maintenance of an ambient and
point-source air quality monitoring system;
f.   MOE,  MOI,  local government,  industry  staff and  local
consultants in the planning, conduct and application of
emission inventories;
g.   MOB, MOI, NOR, local government staff and research institute
personnel in air quality management (including episode
management), dispersion modeling, health effects and least-
cost analysis;
h.  NOE,  NOR and local government  staff  in the planning
installation, operation and maintenance of water quality
monitoring and water quantity management systems; and
i.  NOE, WMC, local government staff and local consultants in
integrated river basin management, water quality management,
water  quantity  management,  environmental  laboratory
management, application of geographic information systems
to water resources management, least cost analysis and
selected priority issues.
Foreign Training
4.        The Project includes provisions for foreign training of Polish experts
through study tours, internships, field studies and applied health research.
Participants in foreign training would include:
a.   MOE  and  MOI  staff  involved  in  the  development  of
environmental policy and regulations under twinning
arrangements;



- 33 -
b. MOR staff involved in applied research progrems concerning
chronic diseases and health effects under twinning
arrangements;
C. NPDC and MOE staff involved in municipal solid and hazardous
waste management under twinning arrangements and contract
training;
d.  MOI, MOE, local government, industry  staff and  local
consultants for study tours and internships in regulatory
organizations and industrial facilities under twinning
arrangements and contract training;
e.   MOE and local government staff for study tours and training
programs in air quality management, dispersion modeling and
assessment of health effects under twinning arrangements and
contract training; and
f.   MOE, WC, local government staff and local consultants for
programs under twinning and contract training arrangements
in river basin management, water quality management, water
quantity management, least-cost analysis and selected
prLiority issues.



- 34 -
kttapch_pnt I,
EpVIROT MAIlAG PRO1CT
PROJECT COST ESTII4ATES
(March 1. 1090 price)
Foreiga X of
Proposed  as Z of  total
----(ZI. blUion)            -----USSi-(Ul$iUom)----                 (1)   (2)
1. Poliao. Manesaten. and Poaran Coordination
Technical Assisatance               10.1   15.2    25.3          1.1      1.6      2.7        1.6      591   8X
and Tradinin
Equipmnt                             l.O   .Sj          AL.      0.     1a        1.1                 An9    62
Sub-total         11.1   24.7    35.8          1.2      2.8       3.8       2.6      682  14%
2. Industrial Efficiency and Environmental Review
Technical Assistance                 4.0   28.5    32.5          0.4      3.0      3.4        3.0      88S  171
&ad TralninR
Equipoent                           -LJ  0.0              0Q0            SiJ 0                0.0      _QU   OZ
Sub-total          4.0   28.5    32.5          0.4      3.0       3.4       3.0      881  171
3. Mr Ouslity tommemt
Technical Assistance                 5.8   10.4    16.2          0.6      1.1      1.7        1.1      651    6X
enA TraDinin
Equipoent                           ILl   32         44.2        l.a     3i        la         3.        2X 11
Sub-total         17.7   42.7    60.4          1.9      4.5       6.4       4.5      702  252
4. Water Respurces Uaspaneant
Technical Assistance                 9.2   17.1    28.3          1.0      1.8      2.8        1.8      641  10l
and Trainins
Equipment                           26.0   37.0      63.         Li       L 3.     6.         39       6    22X
Sub-total          l2   5.J 1    AU            la       L57      LA         5i7       81X  32
ese Cost          68.0  150.1   21L8           Z.2 L    A       23.0      IL         681  881
Physical coAtingencies            7.8   13.3    21.1         0.8      1.4      2.2        1.4       641   81
Price contingencies            28    7.6    20.4          1.3      o.e      LA         0.8      38    42
TOTAL PRJECT COST                  171.0         ;         Jl               2.3     Au         A66X
Note: Physical Contingencies 1O0
Price Cantingencles 51 foreign, 152 local costs
Local costs includes oestosa duties. taxes and other associated costs.



rI.2213
BolocN        seaS
N 04.                                                                                                                                     POLANDltich   Ses  ---ct,&  \   U.  s  R
:   ii                           $                               mn   5                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P O L A N D
-                                      ~~~~~~~ENVRONMENT MANAGEMENT PROJECT
ELRL~~~~G  o ..    ~      ~     ~    ~     ~ ~            PROJECT HEADQUARTERS AND FIELD LOCATIONS
i                                                                                                                                                                     Llpw _W6 R(  U   V    R  Bsn
V J S  eEtK;t                                                                                                                4                   + 4Akpo
)-- WLKW                                                                                                                                                       C+XA Ma rN 11 s w4    M
0                                                                                                                                                        8    P,onlnasONM  h     (Wojo6dztw) Capitals
,R                                                          0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ C.tin and Tasm
< v ;EDr                                                      @ -L  <   _  )aws
Z                                                                                                 52~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- Pm4inca (Wojewddst) EcOwdones
SWERNI                                                             b".0fion~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~aa  Basdwses
ILlp                                                                                                                                                      ______
TRYBUMM   e                                                 (~NORWAYlp    9 r~
5~~~~~~~ -                                    $7i4.'           ''.       . I  A. =                 a                                                      U.S.S.R. 
SW  a
2-;--.-'TA  ~~~W~7~-.jN3                    (GERMAN  (P01L A  N D
------4'  'v~~~~~~~~~~~'                F ~~~DEAL REP
"I   ~~~~¾' '¾~~~~~~"~~ ~~~  / ~FED. REP.  f-N-
-~~      sin.nea  ~~~O  GIERMAWY \            CI o
go3         'PO      150      2asD                                                                                                           AUSTRIA     uGY
54Df   1,,30 00
K   A                                             ffALY ~~~~a,-  ~YUGOSLAVIA4
it                        2SW                                                                 _ _  _ _  _  _ _  _  _  _  _ _ _  _  _  _ _  _  _ _  _



