Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 12665
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TUNISIA
EXPORT INDUSTRIES PROJECT
(LOAN 2522-TU)
JANUARY 6, 1994
Industry and Energy Division
Maghreb Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



List of Abbreviations
API                Agence de Promotion des Investissements
BDET               Banque de Developpement Economique de Tunisie
BTKD               Banque Tuniso-Koweitienne de Developpement
CEPEX             Center for Export Promotion
COTUNACE          Compagnie Tunisienne d'Assurance de Commerce Exterieur
EMI               Electro-Mechanical Industries
ERR               Economic Rate of Return
FOPRODEX          Export Promotion Fund
FRR               Financial Rate of Return
MEN               Ministere de 1'Economie Nationale
PDB               Participating Development Bank
SSI               Small-Scale Industries
STUSID            Societe Tuniso-Seoudienne d'Investissements et de
D6veloppement
UTICA             Union Tunisienne de l'Industrie, du Commerce et de
l'Artisanat (Chamber of Commerce)
Currency Equivalent
At    Project Appraisal (August 1983)
TD .73 = US $ 1
March 1993
TD 1.0 = US $ 1



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation                                                         January 6, 1994
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:         Project Completion Report on Tunisia - Export
Industries Proiect (Loan 2522-TUN)
Attached is the Project Completion Report on Tunisia - Export Industries Project
(Loan 2522-TUN) prepared by the Middle East and North Africa Regional Office. The Borrower did
not prepare a Part II.
The PCR (containing only Parts I and III) is of satisfactory quality. It deals very
candidly with the problems that marred the full achievements of the project's objectives. The slow
utilization of the line of credit was the result of the general downturn in the Tunisian economy in the
early stages of implementation as well as the availability of lower cost financing from some European
sources and the complexity of administrative regulations which were faced by the entrepreneurs in
creating export-oriented industries. Despite the cancellation of nearly half of the loan ($24.2 million),
some 27 subprojects were implemented and the export promotion agencies (Cotunace for export
insurance and Cepex administering the Export Promotion Fund) rendered useful assistance to the export
activities. The outcome is rated as satisfactory and the project has had partial institutional impact.
Given the fact that the export of manufactured goods from Tunisia has grown at an average rate of 21%
between 1985 and 1991 (from US$877 million to US$2.8 billion), sustainability is rated as likely.
An audit of the project is planned. In addition to looking into the actual export
performance of the sub-borrowers, the audit should probe the reasons for low loan utilization as well
as the performance of two export promotion agencies.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients onlv in the performance of their official duties. Its contenu
may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
LOAN 2522-TUN
TUNISIA: EXPORT INDUSTRIES
CONTENTS
PREFACE ....................................... 
EVALUATION SUMMARY.                                                                ii
PART I:  REPORT OF THE BANK . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  1
1. Project Identity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  2
2. Background . .... 2
3. Project Design, Preparation and Organization . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
4. Project Objectives and Description           ..9
5. Project Implementation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
6. Project Results  . . . . . . . . .                                       .  .  14
7. Performance of the Borrower and Participating Banks   .           .16
8. Performance of the Bank.                118
9. Sustainability of Project Achievements.                                         20
10. Lessons Learned                  ..21
PART II:  REPORT OF THE BORROWER  . . . . . . . . . .24
PART III:  STATISTICAL INFORMATION  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26
1. Related Bank Loans.. . . . . . . . 27
2. Project Timetable  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 27
3. Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements  . . . . . . . . . . . . . 28
4. Project Implementation Indicators  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 29
5. Project Costs and Financing  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 29
6. Project Results  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30
7. Status of Project Covenants  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32
8. Use of Bank Resources    ..37
9. Use of Staff Resources                 ..38
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance   I
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TUNISIA: EXPORT INDUSTRIES PROJECT
LOAN NO: 2522-TUN
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for Tunisia: Export
Industries Proiect, for which the Bank approved a loan of US$ 50 million in
April 1985. The loan became effective June 4, 1986, and closed on June 30,
1992, with total disbursements of US$ 25.7 million, about half the original
loan amount. The remaining US$ 24.3 million was cancelled.
The Industry and Energy Division of the Middle East and North Africa
Department I prepared Part I and Part III.
As stipulated in the Loan Agreement (Section 3.05), the Borrower for the
loan, the Government of Tunisia, in conjunction with the Compagnie Tunisienne
d'Assurance du Commerce Exterieur (COTUNACE), is responsible for preparing
Part II, relating to Parts B and C of the Project. Part B of the Project
covers provision of funds to exporters for export promotion and Part C
concerns the institutional strengthening of COTUNACE. In addition, the Banque
de Developpement de Tunisie (BDET), the Banque Tuniso-Koweitienne de
Developpement (BTKD), and the Soci6t6 Tuniso-Seoudienne d'Investissement et de
Developpement (STUSID) are responsible for preparing Part II, relating to Part
A of the Project. Part A covers the execution and initial operation of the
investment projects financed under the Loan'.
Preparation of this PCR is based, inter alia, on the Staff Appraisal
Report, the Report and Recommendations of the President of the Bank to the
Executive Directors; the Loan Agreement, the Project Agreement; supervision
reports; correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower; and internal Bank
memoranda.
1/ BDET had provided comments on its operations during 1987-1991 and
information on subprojects financed under the Project.
STUSID had provided information on subprojects financed under the Project.






- ii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TUNISIA: EXPORT INDUSTRIES PROJECT
LOAN NO: 2522-TUN
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Background
i.    The macroeconomic context of the Export Industries Project was the
Government of Tunisia's Sixth Development Plan (1982-86) which emphasized
diversification of exports to offset declining revenues from petroleum and to
alleviate related financial constraints and the balance of payments deficit.
After a decade of industrial development, based on domestic production as a
substitute for imported goods, the Government, beginning in the early 1970s,
shifted its development policy to export promotion, as it realized the growth
limitations of a domestic market. In support of the new outward-oriented
policy, the Government enacted laws which gave important tax customs and
foreign exchange incentives to companies producing entirely for the export
market. However, there were a number of constraints to exports that remained,
including the lack of a specific export policy, complicated administrative
procedures, insufficient institutional support, and the need for increased
financial resources. In order to meet the Sixth Plan objectives for export
encouragement and expansion of financial resources, the Government believed a
special development project focussing on export industries was necessary.
Paras. 2.1-2.9 provide further details on the macroeconomic context, the
export sector, the financial sector, and the institutional framework. Bank
involvement in the Project was a logical next step in its long-standing
involvement in policy dialogue and financial support directed toward the
development of efficient, labor-intensive industries. The project was also
consistent with sector work in the areas of employment, industrial policy and
financial sector policy. Details on project preparation are given in paras.
3.1-3.16.
Project Objectives and Description
ii.   The Project had two main objectives.  The first was the promotion of the
efficient development of export industries by providing funds to three
Participating Development Banks (PDBs) for investment projects to establish,
expand or modernize enterprises engaged in exports. The second objective was
to improve the institutional environment for exporters by (a) providing
Government's funds to exporters for marketing support through the Export
Promotion Fund (FOPRODEX), (b) assisting the Export Credit Insurance Agency
(COTUNACE) with the proper formulation and execution of a technical assistance
program, and (c) helping to improve administrative procedures related to
exports, particularly in the areas of customs formalities, foreign exchange
controls and import regulations. The Project supported the first objective
with a US$ 50 million loan to three PDBs for financing industrial export
projects. The three PDBs were: the Banque de D6veloppement de Tunisie
(BDET), the Banque Tuniso-Koweitienne de Developpement (BTKD), and the Socift6
Tuniso-Seoudienne d'Investissement et de Developpement (STUSID). Paras. 4.3-



- iii -
4.8 provide a detailed description of the onlending of Loan proceeds and
criteria for investment subproject evaluation. No Bank's funding were
allocated to the institutional aspect of the Project but the Bank considered
its achievement crucial to the promotion of the export sector, and therefore
had stipulated their execution through covenants in the Loan Agreement.
Project Implementation Experience
iii. There were three major aspects to the implementation of this Project.
The first was the slow disbursement and low utilization of loan funds (para
5.3-5.8), due to: (a) a downturn in the economy during the initial phase of
the project (1985-86); (b) the availability to BDET of French, Italian and
Belgian subsidized lines of credit, at a lower interest rate than Bank funds;
(c) preferential credit policies available to export industries (at 7.5%,
raised to 8.5% in 1990); (d) uncertainty surrounding the export policy
environment; (e) difficulty of the PDBs in appraising projects because of an
inadequate data base on the industrial sector and export markets; and (f) the
complex administrative regulations which entrepreneurs faced in creating an
export-oriented enterprise. The second aspect was the preparation of a
Foreign Exchange Risk Study, which was a covenant in the Loan Agreement. The
results of the Study were instrumental in defining a foreign exchange risk
scheme under the Structural Adjustment Loan I, approved by the Board in 1988.
The third facet of the Project was the strengthening of the institutional
support to encourage the promotion of exports. In this area, the Project
helped the Government make considerable progress institutionally. Results of
studies carried out by Bank consultants had indicated areas where further
progress could be achieved. Part I, paras. 6.1-6.7, outlines the detailed
results of the Project. The performance of the Government, the Participating
Banks and the Bank in executing the project is discussed in paras. 7.1-8.10.
Sustainability of Project Achievements
iv.   The Project's main achievements were (a) the reinforcement of COTUNACE
and the Export Promotion Fund managed by CEPEX, (b) some improvements in the
investment project appraisal and supervision capability of the PDBs and (c)
some reduction in the arrears of BDET. The evaluation of the export sector
which the Bank did in the context of this project indicated that further
growth and diversification of Tunisia's exports would depend mainly on the
ability of exporters to improve the competitiveness of their products, not
only based on their price but especially on their quality and adaptability to
the needs of the market. In this context, exporters faced three main
obstacles: (a) inadequate marketing ability due to lack of sufficient market
awareness and updated sales techniques; (b) insufficient attention to the
qualitative fit between exported products and the demand of foreign consumers,
especially in the areas of product specifications and quality standards; and
(c) lack of adequate flexibility to diversify production and take full
advantage of market opportunities. On the other hand, development banks
needed to improve their data base and analysis of the industrial sector and
export markets to evaluate expected benefits from investments. Thus, the
Government of Tunisia needed to elaborate a well-defined export sector
strategy, integrating the participation of representatives from the private
sector, the development banks and government agencies responsible for export



- iv -
administration. The Bank could assist the Government in developing such a
strategy, first by analyzing export performance and then by delineating the
strategic components required to meet export sector objectives. Subsequently,
the Bank could help to define mechanisms for export promotion agencies to
achieve stated goals.
v. In terms of increasing exports, all subprojects had at least contributed
30Z of their production to exports. A few subprojects were entirely export-
oriented. Although there are no available data to assess the actual
contribution of the subprojects' export earnings, general data for Tunisia
show that between 1985 and 1991, exports from the manufacturing sector
increased rapidly from US$ 877 million to US$ 2.8 billion. Regarding the
benefit of employment creation, results were satisfactory. Based on
information reported by BDET and STUSID, subproject investments generated
3,535 jobs on a total amount disbursed of US$ 15.3 million while 10,000 jobs
were estimated to be created on an initial loan amount of US$ 50 million. The
textile subsector and the electrical and mechanical industries subsector were
the main sources of employment, contributing 73% and 11%, respectively.
Lessons Learned and Recommendations
vi. The lessons learned through the implementation and results of this
project are the following:
(a)    Design and maintain policy conditionality as an integral component of
sector strategy. The Bank did not insist strongly enough on maintaining
conditionality in the early stages of the Project. This affected two aspects
of the Project's design and implementation. Firstly, the Bank may have
encouraged the Government to establish and operate the foreign exchange risk
fund earlier and thereby mitigated BDET's accumulation of arrears, if the Bank
had insisted on making Government payment to BDET for losses on foreign
transactions a condition of negotiations. Secondly, the Bank dropped some
support for the clarification of administrative regulations for exporters and,
more generally, the export sector, when it dropped the Supplemental Letter on
Industrial Policy and the conditionality for developing a brochure clearly
outlining administrative regulations for exporters.
(b)   Maintain sector linkage with the project throughout the project cycle.
The Bank, during project preparation, intended to first establish an
industrial and financial sector framework for the project supported by related
project conditionality. However, the Bank abandoned the conditionality when
the timing of the studies supporting a new policy did not conform to the
timetable set for loan processing. After the Bank financed the Project,
neither the industrial sector nor the financial sector received much attention
until problems emerged with the utilization of the credit line. Industrial
sector work that occurred late in the project cycle provided some insight into
the performance of the project, but subsequent supervision missions did not
link the findings to specific problems in the portfolio of subprojects. Also,
changes in the financial sector, such as the availability of competing credits
on more attractive financial terms, had an impact on the credit line
utilization as well.



- v -
(c)   The PDBs should have flexibility in setting interest rates.  A cause of
low utilization of the proceeds of the loan was that the interest rate on
subloans under the Project were not competitive with other credits available
to exporters. This is attributable to two factors. First, preferential
credits from the Central Bank and credits at low interest rates from bilateral
agencies were available to exporters, and these funds were not blended with
the Bank's funds. Second, the PDBs did not have the flexibility in setting
attractive interest rates on subloans, as a consequence of terms stated in the
Project Agreement between the Bank and the PDBs. According to the Agreement,
the rate on subloans could be set no lower than 11%. In future operations
participating banks should have the discretion to set interest rates on
subloans such that the margins are satisfactory based on their respective
average cost of funds and operating expenses.
(d) Eligibility criteria for participating banks which include financial
performance targets agreed upon at appraisal and followed-up during
supervision. The Bank had detected the deterioration of the financial
performance of the PDBs and had agreed with the PDBs that they should take
measures to improve their performance. However, the Bank and the PDBs did not
establish a well-defined set of performance criteria which would have provided
the Bank with a clear basis for evaluating the financial performance of the
PDBs. For future operations, the Bank should agree with participating
financial institutions on minimum objective standards of financial performance
to be maintained throughout project implementation, and should monitor,
through project supervision, that these standards are met. Failure to meet
acceptable financial standards should be cause for eligibility suspension by a
given financial institution.
(e)   Bank's supervision efforts need to be regularly planned and better
implemented. The Bank had identified (i) the deterioration of BDET's and
BTKD's portfolio and (ii) the capacity of the three PDBs to appraise and
supervise investments. To address the first problem, the Bank made
recommendations on ways to improve the two institutions. Specifically, the
Bank agreed with BDET that it should furnish the Bank monthly progress reports
with the intention of reducing its arrears (para 3.12). Concerning the level
and quality of supervision of the PDBs, the Bank agreed with the PDBs on
supervision plans (para 3.11). However, in both cases, the Bank did not
follow-up on its recommendations and did not ensure that corrective measures
were taken which would produce ultimate results. The Bank should have taken a
more critical stance on these issues. Supervision also suffered from a lack
of continuity and regularity. Most of the supervision reports are "time
slices", often focussing intensively on a single aspect of the project without
sufficient backward and forward linkages. Only one report was comprehensive
in that it integrated industrial and financial sector issues, institutional
issues, use of the credit line and the financial condition of the
participating banks. Only two supervision missions (1986 and 1991) produced
full supervision reports using the standardized, comprehensive format which
the Bank provides (Form 590) and only one mission (1991) included a review of
the status of all major project covenants.
(f)   Create a useful data base for monitoring and evaluating subprojects.
There was no comprehensive data base containing subproject descriptions and



- vi -
expected achievements. A number of evaluation reports were missing; and the
quality of the reports sent to the Bank for review varied from each PDB. The
lack of a data base may have caused some inefficiency in the monitoring and
approval of subprojects, making it necessary to search through various
documents to reference essential information instead of accessing a one-page
information summary. The reviewer of the subproject appraisal report should
record the essential project information on a standard form in a computerized
data base for reference and update it throughout the project cycle.






- 1-
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TUNISIA: EXPORT INDUSTRIES
LOAN 2522-TUN
PART I: REPORT OF THE BANK



- 2 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
LOAN 2522-TUN
TUNISIA: EXPORT INDUSTRIES
I. PROJECT IDENTITY
ICountry       IF Tunisia
Project Name     Export Industries
| Loan Number      2522-TUN
Project Code  [CPAO72
Regional Vice ]f Middle East and North Africa
Presidency                                                                   ]
Supervising      Industry and Energy (MN1IE)
Division
2. BACKGROUND
The Macroeconomic Setting
2.1   The Tunisia Export Industries Project (hereafter known as "the Project")
originated in the context of Tunisia's Sixth Development Plan (1982-86). The
general objectives of this plan were to ease the country's unemployment
problem, reduce income disparities among the various regions and maintain
social stability and creditworthiness. However, a major problem in achieving
these objectives was the growing balance of payments deficit and financial
constraints due to decreases in petroleum exports.
2.2    Just prior to the Project's appraisal (1983-84), the country had
experienced drought-related declines in agricultural output, as well as a
slowdown in external demand for exports and tourism which exacerbated the
deteriorating financial situation identified in the Sixth Development Plan.
In order to achieve the Plan objectives, Tunisia developed a strategy which
consisted of slowing down private consumption, reducing the high investment
rate financed by external borrowings, and promoting labor-intensive
manufactured exports.
2.3    Tunisia's export strategy had two main features.  First, there was an
emphasis on labor-intensive industries, which would help meet, concurrently,



- 3 -
employment and balance of payment objectives. Second, the Government realized
that there were limits to growth in traditional exports such as phosphate-
based chemicals and agricultural products, and thus emphasized the growth of
non-traditional manufactured exports to stimulate growth and reduce the
balance of payments deficit.
The Manufacturing Sector
2.4   In 1983, during the initial phase of Project preparation, Tunisia's GDP
was TD 3.4 billion with the manufacturing sector accounting for about 15Z
compared to about 9% in the early 1970s. At the same time, investments in
manufacturing industries had risen from TD 131 million in 1980 to TD 232
million in 1983, increasing the sector's share in total investment during the
period from 13% to nearly 20%. However, many of the manufacturing industries
had developed with import restrictions, price controls, investment licensing
and direct subsidies. These supports, which were initially justified for
infant industry protection, eventually developed into a system which did not
encourage efficiency, productivity and optimal use of productive capacity.
For example, the results of a Bank-financed study on effective protection in
the electrical and mechanical industries sector showed that industries
producing for the protected domestic market had a low economic rate of return
on their investments --only 3.5Z compared to 21.4Z for industries exporting
all of their output.
The Export Sector
2.5   In the 1960s, Tunisia had concentrated its industrial development on
developing import substitution industries and most of the related investments
took place in the public sector. However, given a small domestic market of
only about six million people, the Government, in the early 1970s, shifted its
policy to promoting export-oriented industries and put greater emphasis on the
private sector. In support of these policies, the Government enacted Law 72-
38, which gave important tax, customs and foreign exchange incentives to
exports. The law encouraged the establishment of "off-shore" companies in
Tunisia. These policy changes undoubtedly had an impact on the growth of
manufactured exports, which increased at an average rate of 14% during 1971-
81, with the share of manufacturing exports in total exports rising
dramatically, from 32% to 75%.
2.6   In spite of this growth, there was little integration between the
domestic and export sectors. As a result of foreign exchange regulations
concerning "resident" and "non-resident" companies 2/, many exporters failed to
use local suppliers extensively. In order to foster greater integration of
these two sectors in 1981, the Government passed a second law, Law 81-56,
which gave important advantages to companies that export only part of their
V "Non-resident companies," those with ownership above two thirds by non-
residents are essentially exempt from all foreign exchange controls but have
to execute all their local transactions with dinars bought with foreign
exchange while "resident" companies have to repatriate all their foreign
exchange earnings.



- 4 -
production and are certified by API. The main advantages to such exporters
were the following: (a) a reduced corporate tax of 20 Z on the portion of
production exported, (b) exemption from sales taxes on goods and services
bought on the local market and used in the production of exports, and (c)
access to simpler formalities for imports required in the production of
exports.
2.7   During the early 1980s, the Government introduced a series of
improvements in export finance.
(a) Prefinancing of intermediate goods of exporters. Prefinancing
imported raw materials and intermediate inputs was increased from 1OZ to
at least 20% of annual imports.
(b) Discounting Claims. The duration for discounting claims was
lengthened from 90 days to 180 days (and 360 days for exceptional
situations), which permitted exporters to offer more attractive payment
terms to their clients.
(d) Foreign Exchange Controls. The Government had allowed Tunisian
exporters to keep only 3% of their foreign exchange earnings in
convertible dinars, leaving many exporters with insufficient funds for
marketing and promotion efforts. The share was increased to 4% and
exporters were allowed an additional TD 6,000 per year for travel
expenditures. The amount was still not large enough for many exporters
to explore new markets and to market their products abroad.
Institutional Framework
2.8   The main institutional support in the export sector had been provided by
the Center for the Promotion of Exports (CEPEX), which conducted market
surveys, provided marketing advice, disseminated commercial information,
participated in trade fairs and helped the Government with trade policy
formulation. Institutional improvements were introduced by two new laws which
were passed in 1984. The first law established the Export-Credit Insurance
Company (COTUNACE) to cover the majority of losses incurred by exporters due
to non-payment by foreign buyers. Such insurance had encouraged banks to
provide loans to exporters with limited collateral. The second law encouraged
the creation of the Export Trading Companies to market Tunisian products
abroad, especially those of small and medium-scale industries (SMIs). To
encourage the emergence of these trading companies the Government provided
substantial tax breaks, customs duty and foreign exchange facilities.
Financial Sector Framework
2.9   A Financial Sector Study (FSS), with Bank assistance, was underway
around the time of Project appraisal. Its preliminary conclusions indicated
that the financial sector was basically efficient but required some
improvements in resource mobilization and efficiency of intermediation.
Interest rates on term deposits and savings accounts had been either negative
or barely positive in real terms, and there was a large discrepancy in the
cost of funds and lending rates between the commercial banks and the



- 5 -
development banks. The relatively low interest rates on commercial bank
deposits had kept the average cost of funds for these banks at about 6%.
Development banks, on the other hand, could not accept sight deposits and had
to depend on raising resources from international development institutions,
and the international and domestic bond markets at higher rates. At the time
of the SAR, the average cost of borrowing from this market was about 8.4%.
This had a significant impact on BDET's performance. Although commercial and
development banks were both making medium-term loans to industry at a rate of
about 10%, the net interest margin of commercial banks was 4% while BDET's was
about 2%. This situation was undesirable and the Study proposed an overall
upward adjustment of the interest rate structure, for both deposit and lending
rates. It was also proposing a more flexible adjustment system to allow for
more frequent adjustment of rates in response to liquidity changes, the
domestic inflation rate and interest rates abroad. Another issue which the
Study identified was the question of foreign exchange risk coverage. At the
time, the Government had been carrying the foreign exchange risk on the
foreign borrowings of BDET; but this issue became more important as the new
development banks would need to borrow a significant part of their resource
requirements abroad, therefore an appropriate foreign exchange coverage scheme
was needed.
3. PROJECT DESIGN, PREPARATION AND ORGANIZATION
Project Origins
3.1   In 1983, a Bank consultant prepared a report on export incentives in
Tunisia. In the preparation of this report, the consultant interviewed
exporters, who were concerned that the Government's lack of a specific export
policy, the quantitative restriction on imports, price controls, etc.,
provided little incentive for exports. The report recommended a program to
improve the investment climate for exports, covering administrative procedures
for exports, the availability of financing, access to foreign exchange, the
creation of special export trading companies, etc. Based on these findings,
the Bank sent a mission, in October/November of 1983, to identify a Project
for Bank financing to help expand the availability of funds for export
investment projects and improve the institutional support system for
exporters.
Project Justification and Design
3.2    Importance of the Project.  The need for a special export industries
project was threefold. First, revenues from oil, the major export commodity,
were declining and there was a critical need to diversify the country's export
base. Second, financial resources and institutional support were necessary to
encourage diversification and expansion of export industries. Third, export
industries not only would help meet the Sixth Plan's objective to improve the
balance of payments by increasing foreign exchange earnings but also would
create employment, since many of the existing industries were labor-intensive.
3.3    Rationale for Bank Involvement.  The Project continued to support
Tunisia's industrial development. It built up on the important measures that
the Tunisian Government had undertaken to strengthen fiscal and financial



- 6 -
incentives to exporters, to simplify administrative procedures, and to set up
an institutional environment conducive to export growth. Through the credit
lines on-lent to financial institutions, it also promoted export generating
investments which were in line with the priority accorded to export of the
Government's Sixth Development Plan.
3.4   BDET.  BDET was created in 1959 and reorganized, with the assistance of
the Bank in 1966. IFC is a shareholder in BDET since 1966 and has a
representative on its Board. BDET's share capital was TD 20 million at
Project appraisal and its debt-equity ratio was 5:1, well below the maximum of
8:1 stipulated under previous loan agreements. BDET had been the Bank's major
channel for funding industrial investment projects, through eight lending
operations, totalling US$ 129 million (net of cancellations). About 70% of
BDET's loans were in the industrial sector. Project Completion Reports on
some of these loans had noted considerable improvement in institution-building
and management performance of the institution. Specifically, these loans had
contributed to a change in BDET's role from being a supplier of equity funds
for public enterprises to that of advisor and cofinancier to private
investors. The Bank Staff Appraisal report (SAR) found the institution to be
relatively well-managed by a competent staff.
3.5   Participation of Other Development Banks.  The Government had requested
that two relatively new development banks, established in 1981, participate in
the Project along with BDET. These Banks were: the Banque Tuniso-Koweitienne
de D6veloppement (BTKD) and the Societe Tuniso-S&oudienne d'Investissement et
de D6veloppement (STUSID). Both the Government and the Bank saw their
participation in the Project as an important institution-building step,
providing them with a framework for establishing investment project appraisal
and supervision standards.
3.6   BTKD.  The broad objective of BTKD was to develop economic and financial
relations between Tunisia, Kuwait, and other Arab and African countries.
BTKD's operations were spread over all sectors in the economy, with a higher
concentration in industry, and covered projects of TD 1 million or more. Its
share capital of TD 100 million was and is still equally divided between
Tunisia and Kuwait. The Bank found the financial, technical and market
analysis of BTKD appraisals satisfactory although it had a tendency to rely on
reports of other institutions for a comprehensive analysis of project economic
returns.
3.7   STUSID.  STUSID oriented its operations towards large projects with
investments over TD 2 million for industrial projects and over TD 3 million
for other projects. In particular, STUSID emphasized equity participations,
providing financial assistance in the form of equity and loans in the ratio of
1:2. A special focus of its activities was projects that would have a
favorable impact on the balance of payments and employment. STUSID had
recently put in place satisfactory appraisal and supervision procedures and
reporting methods emphasizing financial, economic and technical criteria. Its
share capital of TD 100 million was and is still equally divided between Saudi
Arabia and Tunisia.



-7-
Major Issues in Prolect Preparation
3.8   Credit Line Amount and On lending Arrangements.  The original lending
operation was envisaged at US$30-35 million. But at Project negotiations, the
Tunisian Government and the Bank agreed that US$50 million would be justified.
The original design of the Project provided that the Bank would make the loan
to the Government; however, at negotiations, the Tunisian delegation requested
that the proceeds of the loan should be lent directly to each of the
development banks involved, with the Government as Guarantor. Ultimately, the
design of the Project remained as originally proposed, and consisted of one
Loan Agreement with the Government, a Project Agreement with the three PDBs,
and Subsidiary Financing Agreements entered between the Government and each
PDB. This arrangement was considered more appropriate since two of the PDBs
(STUSID and BTKD) were receiving Bank's funds for the first time.
3.9   Interest Rate Policy.  Preliminary conclusions of a FSS indicated that
there was a need to adjust interest rates structure (para 2.9) but the Bank
and the Government had not yet reached agreement on the issue by the time of
Project negotiations. Therefore, in the Project Agreement, the Bank stated
that it would review annually, with the PDBs, their interest rates structure
in light of their average cost of capital, administrative costs and the
generally evolution of interest rates. After such reviews, the PDBs were to
take all necessary measures to achieve a reasonable spread, allowing them to
establish sufficient reserves and provisions and obtain a reasonable return on
capital. As part of the Loan Agreement, the Government agreed to allow the
PDBs to take measures to achieve these objectives.
3.10 Foreign Exchange Risk. Another important issue identified by the FSS
was the foreign exchange risk coverage (para 2.9). During the Project's
negotiations, it was agreed that the Government would complete the study for
an appropriate foreign exchange coverage scheme, which would be discussed with
the Bank by March 1986. Under the Project, the Government would continue to
carry the foreign exchange risk until an alternative coverage scheme had been
put in place.
3.11 Level and Quality of Supervision by Development Banks. There was
concern in the Bank at the time of Project preparation, that BDET had
neglected supervision activity because of the expense involved and an attempt
to keep administrative and personnel costs at a minimum. There were also
concerns about the supervision activities of BTKD and STUSID. BTKD had
recently begun to organize its supervision activity and was in the process of
formulating the necessary plans and procedures. For STUSID, supervision
activity was considered especially important given its emphasis on equity
financing. To address these concerns, and ensure the quality of supervision,
the Bank and the PDBs agreed to implement the supervision plans discussed at
negotiations.
3.12 BDET's Financial Condition. The two immediate concerns about BDET's
financial situation were the decline in quality of its portfolio and the large
amounts of foreign exchange losses, owed by the Government. BDET arrears
situation worsened in 1984, with arrears amounting to TD 16 million, of which
TD 12 million was overdue for more than 3 months representing about 6% of the



- 8 -
outstanding loan portfolio; compared with arrears in 1983 of only TD 9.5
million (of which TD 7 million were for more than 3 months), representing
about 4% of the loan portfolio3. During negotiations, the Bank agreed with
BDET that it would keep the Bank abreast of an action plan for reducing
arrears by furnishing the Bank monthly progress reports with the intention to
reduce arrears to 5% of BDET's portfolio by 1986. The Bank was also concerned
about the Government's debt of US$ 13 million to BDET for foreign exchange
losses incurred as a result of foreign borrowings, which had put considerable
financial strain on the institution. Therefore, the Bank proposed making
Government payment of these losses a condition of Board presentation, then
later changed it to a condition of effectiveness, and later dropped it, after
receiving commitments from the Government for the payment before the end of
1985.
3.13 Export Credit Insurance. Originally the Bank was to finance technical
assistance to assure the function and development of COTUNACE, the Export-
Credit Insurance Company, which was established but not yet operating at the
time of Project appraisal. At negotiations, the Bank and the Government
agreed on the financing of the TA program with non-Bank funds. In addition,
they agreed that if non-Bank funds did not become available by December 31,
1985, the Government would finance the shortfall.
3.14 Export Promotion Fund. The Bank had planned to allocate about US$0.5
million of this loan as a contribution to the fund. However, at negotiations,
the Government requested reallocation of the amount to the credit line
component and agreed to fund the activity through a small tax on imports. The
Loan Agreement contained a covenant that the Export Promotion Fund would be
set up by December 31, 1985.
3.15  Project Linkage with Industrial and Financial Sector Work.  At
negotiations, the Bank proposed that the Government commit itself to
presenting the Bank with an action program of industrial policy reform, which
was to take the form of a Supplemental Letter to the Loan Agreement. But
since the recommendations of the Bank's industrial sector policy mission were
not yet available, the Government was unwilling to commit its adherence to
such a program. In addition, Tunisian authorities confirmed to the Bank that
the Government was willing to engage in a dialogue on reform but was concerned
about approving key industrial sector measures, in view of union and
opposition groups. The Bank dropped the Supplemental Letter, leaving the
resolution of policy matters until the industrial sector mission
recommendations were available. The Bank also dropped a general review
covenant which would have provided an opportunity to discuss a program for
addressing issues identified in the FSS that was then in progress. The
Government asked the Bank to drop this general review covenant for political
reasons; the Bank did so but retained a covenant that allowed the Bank to
review the development banks' interest rate structure.
3/ Of the 132 companies which were in arrears for more than three months,
almost half of the arrears were concentrated in 22 public sector companies
which were receiving special supervision efforts.



- 9 -
3.16 The Bank believed that the FSS preliminary findings during Project
preparation did not warrant any delay in advancement of the Project. The FSb
found the sector basically efficient and the Bank saw the Project as a vehicle
for implementing its recommendations. However, there was some concern about
the industrial sector since the existing framework encouraged inefficiencies
and production for the domestic market rather than for export. To tackle the
issue, the Government had done an in-depth study of the protection framework
and the Bank had begun a dialogue on how to best rationalize the system.
4. PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION
Objectives
4.1   The SAR of the Project cited two main objectives.  The first objective
was to promote the efficient development of export industries by financing,
through BDET, BTKD and STUSID, the establishment, expansion and modernization
of industrial enterprises engaged in exports. The second objective was to
improve the institutional environment for exporters by (a) providing
Government's funds to exporters for marketing support through FOPRODEX, (b)
assisting the Export Credit Insurance Agency (COTUNACE) with the proper
formulation and execution of a technical assistance program, and (c) helping
to improve administrative procedures related to exports, particularly in the
areas of customs formalities, foreign exchange controls and import
regulations.
Loan Amount and Project Components
4.2   The Project consisted of a US$ 50 million loan to the Government which
would pass the proceeds, in local currency, on to BDET (US$ 20 million), BTKD
(US$ 15 million) and STUSID (US$ 15 million) to cover part of their resource
needs, for the financing of eligible industrial export projects. The
subsidiary loans were made at the Bank's standard variable interest rate. The
Government was to bear the foreign exchange risk. The signature of Subsidiary
Financing Agreements between the Government and each of the PDBs was a
condition of loan effectiveness.
4.3   The loans to the PDBs were to finance the foreign exchange costs of
goods, works and services for industrial export projects which the PBDs were
to finance under the loan. The Bank and the Government had estimated that
about 60% of the investment cost of projects would consist of goods and
services supplied from abroad. The Bank was to make disbursements for these
subprojects based on standard documentation described in the Bank's
disbursement procedures, except for expenditures below US$ 20,000, which would
be made against statements of expenditures.
4.4   The definition of industrial export subprojects eligible for financing
under the Project covered (a) new enterprises which would export at least 30Z
of their production and (b) the balancing, modernization and/or expansion of
existing enterprises which would export at least 50% of their incremental
production. The subprojects should also carry an ERR of at least 10Z and a
FRR of at least 12%. The Project set limits on the maximum loan amount for an
individual project to be financed by the PDBs, in order to encourage the use



- 10 -
of the loan proceeds for a large number of projects. This limit was US$ 2
million for BDET and US$ 1.5 million for BTKD and STUSID.
4.5   For the subprojects financed by BDET, the legal documents included a
"free limit" of US$750,000. For subloans less than or equal to the free limit
amount, BDET needed to provide the Bank with only a summary description of the
investment, the investment enterprise, and the terms of the subloan instead of
a detailed appraisal report. The SAR for the Project estimated that about 40Z
of the number of subprojects financed by BDET would be for projects above the
free limit. The Project did not provide a free limit for BTKD and STUSID in
order to allow maximum Bank review of projects financed by them and thus help
them to strengthen their appraisal capability.
4.6   For subprojects above the free limit, a detailed appraisal format
justifying the export potential of the investment was required to provide the
following information:
(a) detailed market analysis with statistics of demand, supply and
imports in target markets;
(b) justification of price/quality competitiveness of projects that the
enterprise expected to manufacture;
(c) steps taken by sponsors to secure an export market;
(d) marketing channels abroad and purchase orders received or contracts
made on a long-term basis, if any;
(e) past export performance in the case of balancing, modernization
and/or expansion subprojects;
(f) detailed calculations of net foreign exchange earnings annually for
a period of five years, showing breakdown of income and cost in foreign
and local currencies;
(g) eligibility for the Government's export incentives and the provision
of related details; and
(h) a description of the protection framework to ensure that subprojects
did not depend on excessive protection for the part of their output sold
on the domestic market.
4.7   Technical Assistance to COTUNACE.  The financing for this technical
assistance was to come from concessionary non-Bank funds. However, since the
Bank had helped to design and establish COTUNACE, with the assistance from the
French Export Insurance Agency, COFACE, it was agreed that the Bank, under the
Project, would coordinate the development of the program and monitor its
progress.
4.8   Export Marketing and Promotion.  To further strengthen the institutional
framework with regards to exports, the need to establish an Export Promotion
Fund (FOPRODEX) was identified. Although no Bank resources were channelled



- Li -
through this Fund, its development and operations were important in
encouraging the growth of exports. Therefore, the Loan Agreement contained a
covenant stipulating that an Export Promotion Fund, with procedures,
organizational structure and staffing satisfactory to the Bank, would be set
up by December 31, 1985. The role of the Bank was a monitoring one.
Resources from FOPRODEX were made available for (a) assistance in market
research, (b) preparation of market studies, (c) participation in trade fairs
and training programs related to exports, and (d) preparation of brochures and
catalogues for individual enterprises. CEPEX were responsible for operating
FOPRODEX.
4.9   Improvements in Procedures for Exports.  During the negotiations for the
Project, the Bank reviewed recommendations of CEPEX to simplify the complex
procedures faced by Tunisian exporters, which were a constraint on the
expansion of exports. The Bank and the Government reached agreement that
CEPEX would issue a guidebook, by December 31, 1985, outlining the improved
procedures, though this was not a covenant in the Loan Agreement.
5. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Delay in Loan Effectiveness
5.1   Loan effectiveness were postponed three times, from the original date of
November 11, 1985 to February 1986 then to May 1986 and finally to June 1986.
This was due to delays in the ratification of Project documents by the
National Assembly. This act was necessary to conclude the signing of
Subsidiary Financing Agreements between the Government and the PDBs.
Amendment to the Project Agreement
5.2   In August 1989, the Bank at the request of the PDBs made two changes
((a) and (b) below) and an addition ((c)) to the Project Agreement, to
encourage greater use of the loan proceeds:
(a) extension of the commitment date for subproject applications, from
June 30, 1988 to June 30, 1989;
(b) statement of the maximum value of subloans in constant 1985 US
dollars to account for the effects of inflation; and
(c) a requirement to add, in the subproject appraisal reports, a
description of goods to be produced and, in addition, for goods
manufactured domestically and whose production was to be financed under
the Loan, a statement of the cost of any imported components.
Low Utilization of the Credit Line
5.3   Disbursements and Cancellations.  Out of an original loan amount of US$
50 million, the Bank only disbursed a total of US$ 25.7 million, cancelling
the remaining US$ 24.3 million.



- 12 -
5.4   Industrial Sector Review.  An Industrial Sector Note (ISN), dated
February 20, 1990, and prepared by the Industry and Energy Division of the
Bank's Maghreb Department provided some interesting insights which could help
explain the performance of the loan. The basis of this study's findings was a
series of meetings with some 40 entrepreneurs from the main industrial
subsectors; with each of the agencies responsible for key aspects of
industrial investment, export and technology promotion; with most major
commercial and development banks, the stock exchange; and with research and
academic institutions. The ISN noted that GDP increased from TD 6.2 billion
in 1984 to TD 8.6 billion in 1988, but there was a decline in total investment
from 32% of GDP in 1984 to about 19% in 1988. Industrial investment also had
declined as a share of total investment since 1984.
5.5   The main constraint to the growth of investment was the inability of
many enterprises to obtain the necessary investment financing, due to the
following reasons:
(a) the high cost of evaluating new projects oriented towards
external markets or new technology;
(b) difficulty in assessing project performance without an
adequate data base on the industrial sector and export markets;
c) uncertainty of the policy environment, especially concerning
the pace of trade liberalization and Government intentions
concerning the exchange rate; and
(d) interest rate caps and existing portfolio weaknesses
constraining banks' willingness to take risks;
5.6   Despite the lower share of industrial investment in total investment
during 1984-88, the share of manufactured exports grew substantially after
1987, increasing their share in total exports from 50% in 1985 to 75% in 1988.
The report looked behind this growth and made two important observations.
First it pointed out that companies which exported all of their production
were responsible for 40% of industrial exports and more than 90% of their
inputs came from outside Tunisia. Usually a foreign investor associated with
an offshore company marketed the products abroad. Based on this information,
the ISN came to the conclusion that the greater efficiency and marketing
skills of such exporters had not yet permeated into domestic industries.
Second, exports were highly concentrated in the textile subsector and markets
were concentrated in France, Italy and Germany.
5.7     The ISN further noted that incentives to export in Tunisia were not
sufficiently strong to offset the high level of domestic industry protection.
These incentives included tax-free income for export earnings, exemption from
license, value added tax on all inputs required for exports, and duty free
imports of inputs required for exports. However, based on the interviews with
both exporters and entrepreneurs that did not export, these incentives were
not adequate to induce companies producing for the domestic market to export
since:



- 13 -
(a) tax exemptions were not very useful to a company that pays
little or no taxes or understates income (a common practice in
Tunisia);
(b) in spite of incentives "on the books," exporters were
frequently obliged to pay value added tax on imported inputs
purchased locally and it remained nearly impossible to obtain a
rebate; and
(c) as a result of a general relaxation of import licenses,
producers usually could obtain an annual authorization for all
their estimated import needs whether they exported or not.
5.8   Consultant Report on Credit Line Use.  About a year prior to the ISN, a
Bank consultant evaluated the Project's pipeline subprojects. The consultant
noted that, despite a revision in the expected utilization of the credit from
US$ 50 million to US$ 32.5 million, there would be a lack of credit demand
under the Project due to :
(a) International Factors. Demand from major importing countries
(mainly the EEC) was sluggish and this have lessened the demand
for Tunisians goods;
(b) Domestic Factors. Among these factors, were political
uncertainty in Tunisia, delays in decrees for establishing
liberalization measures adopted by the Government and persistence
of complicated administrative formalities;
(c) Institutional Support in Promotion. The consultant noted that
the activities of CEPEX were not integrated into a private sector
export development strategy which aimed at developing quality
products for specific markets. In addition, CEPEX was not well
perceived by entrepreneurs;
(d) Availability of other financing sources. The Bank line's
interest rate of at least 11% made it uncompetitive with other
subsidized credits (French, Italian and Belgian) as well as with
preferential credits to exporting industries, available through
commercial banks.
Execution of the Institutional Support Component
5.9   The Borrower had agreed to provide the Export Promotion Fund with the
necessary resources and begin operating it by the end of 1985. The Fund
became operational at the beginning of 1986. During the period 1986-88, the
budget of the Fund averaged TD 10 million annually.
5.10 COTUNACE became operational in July 1985 with a staff of 25 persons
divided among six departments -- short-term production (less than 180 days),
medium-term production (greater than 180 days), risk studies,
administration/financing, legal, and information. The organization received
training with funds from the European Economic Community (EEC). During a 1988



- 14 -
mission, the Director of COTUNACE mentioned the need for additional funds for
training programs and documentation, in the order of $60,000, but that
COTUNACE did not need funds from the Bank for this purpose.
6. PROJECT RESULTS
Credit Line Component
6.1 Based on appraisal reports sent to the Bank for approval, the Project
supported the development of 27 subprojects. The single subsector receiving
the largest amount of investment funds was the textile subsector, which
accounted for more than one third of the total, followed by electrical and
mechanical industries. The expected share of production for export for the
subprojects varied from 30% to 90%, except for a few that were to produce
entirely for the export market. In addition, all subprojects projected ERRs
and FRRs ranging between 15% and 100%, and 16% and 68%, respectively.
Subloans by the PDBs to export enterprises carried interest rates ranging from
11.5-13% and maturities varying from 7-11 years with grace periods of 1-3
years. Although there are no available data to assess the actual contribution
of the subprojects's export earnings, general export data for Tunisia show
that between 1985 and 1991, exports in the manufacturing sector increased from
US$ 877 million to US$ 2.8 billion'.
6.2 For the purpose of this PCR, two PDBs, BDET and STUSID, reported that
proceeds from the loan had financed 19 subprojects, with a total projected
investment cost of approximately US$ 150 million. The number of jobs
generated were 3,535 on an amount disbursed of US$ 15.3 million, which is
satisfactory when compared with Project's appraisal forecast of 10,000 job on
an initial loan amount of US$ 50 million. The textile subsector and the
electrical and mechanical industries subsector were the main sources of
employment, contributing 73% and 11%, respectively.
6.3 Information received from BDET and STUSID also revealed that loan
proceeds as a proportion of total investment costs of the subprojects did not
follow a regular pattern and fluctuated widely. In addition, the average
subloan for individual projects financed by the PDBs was relatively small,
compared to the ceiling set at US$ 2.0 million for BDET and US$ 1.5 million
for STUSID (para. 4.4). This situation is particularly striking for BDET.
With the exception of one subproject financed at US$ 2 million, the other
subprojects averaged approximately US$ 360,000. One underlying cause could be
that the PDBs were using the Project as a lender of last resort, after having
exhausted other more competitive sources. In addition, a review of BDET's
portfolio financed with the loan showed that the portfolio is not performing
well. Of a loan portfolio outstanding of TD 10.6 million, 6 loans out of 9,
totalling TD 5.8 million, have arrears. Additional information on the aging
4/ If OED decide to do a project performance audit for this project, the PCR
recommends that OED make an ex-post review of the actual performance of the
subprojects financed by the proceeds of the loan, particularly of their
exports.



- 15 -
of arrears and the terms of the loans would be needed to determine the
seriousness of the situation.
Institutional Support from COTUNACE and FOPRODEX
6.4   The SAR noted that an institutional strengthening of COTUNACE and
FOPRODEX would benefit exports by addressing market and financial constraints.
Together with an improvement in administrative procedures, these measures
would have a potential benefit in terms of increased exports that would far
exceed their costs. Although it was not possible to assess quantitatively the
effect of these measures, the SAR noted that even an increase of 1% in the
value of export would translate into about TD 50 million over a period of
about 5 years.
6.5   COTUNACE.  During 1990, COTUNACE's activities stabilized after
experiencing substantial growth during 1985 and 1988, when the number of
insurance policies issued rose from 43 to 329. Since 1989, COTUNACE has
expanded its coverage and offered 6 types of policies (compared to 3
previously): (a) a global policy reserved for exported consumer goods, (b) a
policy covering medium and long-term risks for services based on individual
transaction, (c) a market-interruption policy which complemented the two
previous policies, (d) a policy covering material losses aimed at enterprises
doing construction, public works abroad, (e) a policy covering merchandise
losses stocked abroad for trade fairs, --(d) and (e) cover exclusively
political risks and/or natural disasters-- and (f) a policy covering non-
payment of financial credits. During 1990, the volume of exports covered by
COTUNACE reached 295 million DT, experiencing a 12X decline from a volume of
335 million DT in 19895.
6.6   CEPEX and the Export Promotion Fund.  The Center for the Promotion of
Exports (CEPEX) was in charge of operating the Export Promotion Fund
(FOPRODEX) which has been in operation since 1986. Originally the financing
of the Fund was to come from a customs tax, but most of the resources actually
came directly from the Tunisian Government. During the period 1986-88, the
budget of the Fund averaged TD 10 million annually. Decisions on the use of
the resources came from a commission which included the representatives of
exporters and representatives of the Minister of the National Economy. The
Fund was engaged in a number of important activities, but it has not been
successful in researching new markets for Tunisian products outside the EEC.
Also, there was not a clear distinction between the operations of CEPEX and
FOPRODEX.
5/ By 1988, insurance policies from COTUNACE covered about 20% of Tunisia's
exports, up considerably from about 10% in 1987. The level of coverage was
fairly substantial considering that the rate was about 28% for France and that
coverage rarely exceeded 30% anywhere in the world. COTUNACE had built a
database of 900 resident enterprises each with annual exports in excess of TD
20,000.



- 16 -
6.7   Administrative Procedures for Exporters.  CEPEX was to prepare, by
December 1985, a comprehensive guide to help exporters with the intricate
procedures and regulations of exports (para 4.9). CEPEX did not prepare the
guide, maintaining that several brochures of CEPEX and a publication by the
Central Bank already covered such procedures. A user-friendly guide
integrating and clarifying the information is still needed.
7. PERFORMANCE OF THE BORROWER AND PARTICIPATING BANKS
The Government.
7.1   Responsibilities vis i viS the Participating Developing Banks.   The
Government, as the Borrower under the Loan was to (a) on-lend the proceeds of
the loan to the PDBs (b) ensure that the PDBs meet their obligations under the
Project Agreement and make satisfactory provisions to protect them against
losses resulting from foreign exchange transactions and (c) review, annually
with the Bank, the financial requirements of the PDBs for each coming year.
Except for the lateness in reimbursing BDET for its foreign exchange losses,
the Government's performance was satisfactory. In 1987, the Government
recommended that the Bank prepare a seminar to help the PDBs prepare appraisal
reports on subprojects, since the latter had shown some deficiencies,
especially in marketing analysis and cost estimation. A Bank's consultant did
an assessment of the PDBs' subprojects portfolio and made recommendations for
improvements (para 8.6). Also, in support of improved utilization of the loan
proceeds, the Government requested an amendment of the Loan Agreement to allow
expanded coverage of eligible expenditures and periodic updating of the
investment ceiling for subprojects to take account of inflation (para 5.2).
7.2   COTUNACE.  According to Section 4.02 and 5.01 of the Loan Agreement, the
Government was responsible for overseeing the operation of COTUNACE and
ensuring that adequate funds were available for technical assistance and
training of COTUNACE staff. COTUNACE received funds from the EEC for
technical assistance (para 5.10) and its operation were relatively
satisfactory to the Bank during the course of the Project. However, the Bank
expressed concern about the adequacy of funds to cover political risk. In
1988 the Bank reviewed COTUNACE's operations and noted that the Government was
providing only half of the back-up funds required to cover political risks,
although the Government was required, by statute, to cover the full amount.
The Government's main reason for not providing the full amount was its severe
budgetary constraints. The Bank review also cited the need to monitor premium
rates charged in relation to the array of insurance policies provided to
exporters.
7.3   Export Promotion Fund.  The Government was to provide the Fund with the
necessary resources for operation by December 31, 1985. The Government's
performance in the set-up and operation of the Fund was found satisfactory;
but several areas of the Fund's operation needed improvement. Although the
Fund brought out innovative measures to help exporters penetrate new markets
and diversify their production, it did not devote sufficient attention to
helping exporters adapt their products to the needs of foreign consumers. The
Fund also needed to improve its monitoring procedures.



- 17 -
7.4   Foreign Exchange Risk.  The Government prepared a study on foreign
exchange risk, as specified in the Loan Agreement. The Bank considered the
completion of the study satisfactory as a fulfillment to the Loan Agreement,
but viewed it only as an initial step in a dialogue for future improvements in
the financial sector's overall management of risk and the setting of risk
premiums.
The Participating Development Banks (PDBs)
7.5   Utilization of the proceeds of the loan was slow.  The Bank extended the
commitment date and the closing date to enable the PDBs to employ the
resources fully. But, when the Project finally closed in June 30, 1992, 49Z
of the original loan amount had been cancelled. Only US$ 25.7 million were
disbursed. Actual amounts disbursed by each PDB are shown in Table I below.
BDET, had the lowest rate of credit line utilization in relation to the
original allocation. BTKD and STUSID had similar rates of utilization, at 69%
and 67% respectively.
Table 1
Use of the Loan Proceeds by PDB
(US$ million)
PDB         Original Allocation                Actual Disbursements
BDET              20.0                                  5.2
BTKD              15.0                                 10.4
STUSID            15.0                                 10.1
50.0                                 25.7
7.6   BDET.  Compared to the other two PDBs, BDET's credit line utilization
was the lowest, mainly due to BDET's accessibility to less expensive French
and Italian bilateral funds and to competition from BTKD and STUSID. BDET's
appraisal reports were for the most part well-organized, complete and
substantial, but market analyses were too optimistic. In response to
competition from other development banks, BDET focussed on new enterprises and
emphasized quantity of projects over quality, but it did not have the in-house
capability to promote, appraise and supervise sophisticated and
technologically advanced projects. During the course of the Project, BDET
made some progress in improving its supervision process, which was a concern
at the time of Project appraisal. But it experienced financial difficulties
because of the significant arrears the Government owed to it in compensation
for losses on foreign exchange transactions.
7.7   BTKD.  The financial position and organization of BTKD, along with
mounting arrears, became a concern under the Project. Historically BTKD had a
tendency to finance projects backed by the State. As a result, a large share
of its arrears were, and are still, due to public enterprises. BTKD's
supervision activities were also relatively lax; for example, it did not have
a process of systematic visits to client enterprises, not even those with



- 18 -
major arrears. The Bank recommended that BTKD management hire a consultant to
do a thorough review of its performance portfolio and operational procedures.
7.8   STUSID.  The financial position of STUSID remained fairly sound
throughout the Project implementation period. STUSID exercised caution in its
selection of industries to support. One aspect in STUSID's management which
had contributed to a strong portfolio was that its Board had to authorize
investments at TD 1 million or more.
7.9   Compliance with financial covenants as stipulated in Loan documents.
The three PDBs had provided the Bank with their yearly financial statements
which were audited by independent auditors, acceptable to the Bank, i.e.
Commissaire aux Comptes or a private accounting firm. The Bank accepted the
audit reports as presented as they were prepared in accordance with banking
regulations prevailing in Tunisia at the time. The PDBs' financial statements
are available in the Project Files.
8. PERFORMANCE OF THE BANK
Project Preparation and Appraisal.
8.1   The Bank's preparation and appraisal work were satisfactory in
establishing the need for the credit line and the technical assistance
components, but the Bank did not pay sufficient attention to (a) the relation
of the size of the loan to investment demand and the capabilities of the PDBs
to process viable subprojects, (b) the importance of clarifying the
administrative regulations for exporters, and (c) the appropriate
conditionality to ensure the Government's compensation for BDET of losses on
foreign exchange transactions and future handling of foreign exchange risk.
8.2   Loan Size.  Until loan negotiations, the Bank was planning on a loan of
US$30-35 million but during negotiations, the Government convinced the Bank to
increase the amount to US$ 50 million. Although the SAR cited a substantial
pipeline of projects for investment financing, there was no evidence of a
detailed evaluation of the quality of projects in the pipeline. The files,
and staff involved in the preparation of the Project, also indicated that the
size of the loan was related more to the desire of the Tunisians for a large
loan and the fact that the Bank was willing to increase its annual lending
program to Tunisia.
8.3   Administrative regulations for exporters.  As per the Decision
Memorandum of the Project, the preparation of a draft brochure on
administrative regulations was to be available for discussion at Project
negotiations. Also, the Government was to prepare recommendations for
improving export procedures in the Government departments and the Central
Bank. In particular, the Customs Office was to establish a service department
to help exporters with administrative procedures, and this was to be a
condition of loan effectiveness. The Bank ultimately dropped these items as
conditions for negotiation and effectiveness of the loan. This was
unfortunate, as supervision missions and consultant reviews during the



- 19 -
implementation of the Project confirmed that a major obstacle to exporters was
the lack of clarity about export regulations.
8.4   Government repayment of BDET's losses and Foreign Exchange Risk.  The
Decision Memorandum for the Project noted agreement in the Bank that the
Government, as a condition of negotiations, should reimburse BDET for its
outstanding payments to compensate BDET for foreign exchange losses paid by
BDET on behalf of Government on foreign loans that had accumulated during
1981-83. However, the Bank dropped this condition under pressure from the
Government. Subsequently, the Bank made the repayment of these losses a
condition of effectiveness and then dropped it, in order to expedite loan
effectiveness. In hindsight, it would have been more prudent to make
repayment of losses and the start-up of a foreign exchange risk study
conditions of negotiations and its completion a condition of effectiveness,
even if at the cost of postponing the Project. This would have given a clear
signal to the Government about the importance of resolving foreign exchange
issues early in the Project's execution.
Project Supervision
8.5   Subproject Evaluation and Monitoring the Performance of PDBs.  In 1986,
before the loan became effective, the Bank's first supervision mission
recommended that a consultant do an in-depth, project-by project review of
BDET's projects in arrears. The consultant's recommendations on an action
plan was transmitted to BDET's management in June 1987.
8.6   Moreover, the Bank employed another consultant to (a) reassess the
pipeline of export industry projects, (b) review the quality of subproject
appraisals, and (c) visit some of the enterprises in difficulty, especially
those with large arrears. The files contain a very detailed draft report
dated June 1987, which reviewed the portfolios of the PDBs and made
recommendations for improvements. At this point there was a discontinuity in
the supervision process, since the next supervision mission made no reference
to the consultant report or any follow-up work but instead focused on an
overall review of the low utilization of the credit line and the need for
changes in the Loan Agreement. It was not until the supervision report of
December 1988 that the Bank again addressed the operations of the PDBs in
detail.
8.7   A review of the subproject appraisal reports, the approval process and
documentation available in Bank's files revealed a lack of consistency in the
Bank's subproject examination process. For example, most of the files for
STUSID's subprojects contained a standardized summary project information and
rating sheet with a very detailed checklist of points in the appraisal report
and a formal statement of approval. There were no such sheets, however, in
the files of the other two PDBs. This was unfortunate, especially since BDET
did not perform well in terms of the utilization of the credit line. Also,
the PCR review noted that, in certain cases, actual disbursements on
subprojects were higher (in several cases by about 50%) than the amounts
formally authorized, with no documentation explaining the discrepancy.
Interviews with Project staff indicated that there were basically two reasons
for the discrepancies: (a) devaluation of the Dinar relative to the US$ and



- 20 -
(b) requests from the PDB for a higher level of disbursement which the Bank
authorized verbally but did not always document.
8.8   Institutional Components.  It was not until the end of 1988 that the
Bank devoted any significant attention to the operation of COTUNACE and the
Export Promotion Fund. The review of the December 1988 mission was thorough
and was backed by a detailed consultant report on the set-up and operations of
these two institutions. The report contained a number of recommendations to
improve the operational efficiency and responsiveness of the institutions to
exporters needs, but the Bank did not pursue further to implement the
recommendations.
8.9   Industrial Sector Issues.  Bank supervision missions did not address
industrial sector issues to any notable extent until late in 1988. The
December 1988 supervision report discussed a number of industrial sector
performance issues and strategies covering the macroeconomic picture, reasons
for the decline in investment levels and changes in the regulatory framework
and the role of public sector agencies in export promotion and development.
Subsequently, the ISN of 1990 treated some of the same issues in detail but
supervision work on the Project during 1990-91 did not use any of this earlier
work to evaluate the sector implications for the Project's performance.
8.10 Financial Sector Issues. A Bank memorandum on the effectiveness of the
Project noted that receipt by the Bank of the foreign exchange risk study
fulfilled one of the covenants of the Loan Agreement. The Project did not
follow up on the results of the study. However, these were later discussed
and were beneficial in defining a foreign exchange risk scheme under SAL
(1988). The other financial issues noted in Project supervision were that the
Ministry of Finance and Planning had agreed to allow development banks to lend
to their clients on a short-term basis, and that the Central Bank had agreed
on the development of a standardized accounting plan for banks.
9. SUSTAINABILITY OF PROJECT ACHIEVEMENTS
9.1   The Project's main achievements were (a) the build-up of COTUNACE and
the Export Promotion Fund managed by CEPEX, (b) some improvements of the
appraisal/supervision capacities of the PDBs, and (c) some impact on reducing
BDET's arrears. Ihe low level of credit line utilization under the Project
reflected prevailing economic conditions, as well as some obstacles that the
Government and the exporters themselves did not address in order to have a
significant impact on export performance, and still need to address in the
future. The sector work which the Bank addressed in the context of Project
supervision indicated that further growth of exports in Tunisia would depend
mainly on the ability of exporters to improve the marketing of their products.
In this context, exporters faced the following three obstacles:
(a) inadequate marketing skills which reflected lack of awareness
of market variability and limited knowledge of updated sales
techniques;



- 21 -
(b) lack of concern about the qualititative fit between exported
products and the demand of foreign consumers, especially in the
areas of product specifications and quality standards;
(c) insufficient flexibility to diversify production to take full
advantage of market opportunities.
To address these constraints, Tunisian authorities still need to work closely
with the private sector to complement and enhance the effectiveness of
Project's institutional achievements in the areas of export promotion and
export insurance. Recommended actions include:
(a) preparation of a brochure which explains in clear, simple language,
the existing administrative requirements for exporters; and
(b) identification of mechanisms to make administrative agencies more
responsive to, and supportive of, the Government's export strategy.
(c) periodic consultation of CEPEX with exporters to explore the
need for improving or expanding its service.
The Bank could assist the Government in developing a more clearly focussed
export strategy, by first analyzing export performance, and delineating the
strategic components required to meet export objectives. Subsequently, the
Bank could help to define the mechanisms for export promotion agencies to
achieve their stated goals. Finally, it would be worthwhile to study the
offshore activities of Tunisia and other countries to derive export
development experience which Tunisian exporters could benefit from.
10. LESSONS LEARNED
10.1 A Review of the implementation experience and results of the Project
indicate the following lessons learned :
(a)    Design and maintain policy conditionality as an integral component of
sector strategy. The Bank did not insist strongly enough on maintaining
conditionality in the early stages of the Project. This affected two aspects
of the Project's design and implementation. Firstly, the Bank may have
encouraged the Government to establish and operate the foreign exchange risk
fund earlier and thereby mitigated BDET's accumulation of arrears, if the Bank
had insisted on making Government payment to BDET for losses on foreign
transactions a condition of negotiations. Secondly, the Bank dropped some
support for the clarification of administrative regulations for exporters and,
more generally, the export sector, when it dropped the Supplemental Letter on
Industrial Policy and the conditionality for developing a brochure clearly
outlining administrative regulations for exporters.
(b)   Maintain sector linkage with the project throughout the project cycle.
The Bank, during project preparation, intended to first establish an
industrial and financial sector framework for the project supported by related
project conditionality. However, the Bank abandoned the conditionality when
the timing of the studies supporting a new policy did not conform to the



- 22 -
timetable set for loan processing. After the Bank financed the Project,
neither the industrial sector nor the financial sector received much attention
until problems emerged with the utilization of the credit line. Industrial
sector work that occurred late in the project cycle provided some insight into
the performance of the project, but subsequent supervision missions did not
link the findings to specific problems in the portfolio of subprojects. Also,
changes in the financial sector, such as the availability of competing credits
on more attractive financial terms, had an impact on the credit line
utilization as well.
(c)   The PDBs should have flexibility in setting interest rates.  A cause of
low utilization of the proceeds of the loan was that the interest rate on
subloans under the Project were not competitive with other credits available
to exporters. This is attributable to two factors. First, preferential
credits from the Central Bank and credits at low interest rates from bilateral
agencies were available to exporters, and these funds were not blended with
the Bank's funds. Second, the PDBs did not have the flexibility in setting
attractive interest rates on subloans, as a consequence of terms stated in the
Project Agreement between the Bank and the PDBs. According to the Agreement,
the rate on subloans could be set no lower than 11%. In future operations
participating banks should have the discretion to set interest rates on
subloans such that the margins are satisfactory based on their respective
average cost of funds and operating expenses.
(d) Eligibility criteria for participating banks which include financial
performance targets agreed upon at appraisal and followed-up during
supervision. The Bank had detected the deterioration of the financial
performance of the PDBs and had agreed with the PDBs that they should take
measures to improve their performance. However, the Bank and the PDBs did not
establish a well-defined set of performance criteria which would have provided
the Bank with a clear basis for evaluating the financial performance of the
PDBs. For future operations, the Bank should agree with participating
financial institutions on minimum objective standards of financial performance
to be maintained throughout project implementation, and should monitor,
through project supervision, that these standards are met. Failure to meet
acceptable financial standards should be cause for eligibility suspension by a
given financial institution.
(e)   Bank's supervision efforts need to be regularly planned and better
implemented. The Bank had identified (i) the deterioration of BDET's and
BTKD's portfolio and (ii) the capacity of the three PDBs to appraise and
supervise investments. To address the first problem, the Bank made
recommendations on ways to improve the two institutions. Specifically, the
Bank agreed with BDET that it should furnish the Bank monthly progress reports
with the intention of reducing its arrears (para 3.12). Concerning the level
and quality of supervision of the PDBs, the Bank agreed with the PDBs on
supervision plans (para 3.11). However, in both cases, the Bank did not
follow-up on its recommendations and did not ensure that corrective measures
were taken which would produce ultimate results. The Bank should have taken a
more critical stance on these issues. Supervision also suffered from a lack
of continuity and regularity. Most of the supervision reports are "time
slices", often focussing intensively on a single aspect of the project without



- 23 -
sufficient backward and forward linkages. Only one report was comprehensive
in that it integrated industrial and financial sector issues, institutional
issues, use of the credit line and the financial condition of the
participating banks. Only two supervision missions (1986 and 1991) produced
full supervision reports using the standardized, comprehensive format which
the Bank provides (Form 590) and only one mission (1991) included a review of
the status of all major project covenants.
(f)   Create a useful data base for monitoring and evaluating subprojects.
There was no comprehensive data base containing subproject descriptions and
expected achievements. A number of evaluation reports were missing; and the
quality of the reports sent to the Bank for review varied from each PDB. The
lack of a data base may have caused some inefficiency in the monitoring and
approval of subprojects, making it necessary to search through various
documents to reference essential information instead of accessing a one-page
information summary. The reviewer of the subproject appraisal report should
record the essential project information on a standard form in a computerized
data base for reference and update it throughout the project cycle.



- 24 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TUNISIA: EXPORT INDUSTRIES PROJECT
LOAN 2522-TUN
PART II
REPORT OF THE BORROWER



- 25 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TUNISIA: EXPORT INDUSTRIES PROJECT
LOAN 2522-TUN
The Borrower did not prepare a Part II.



- 26 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TUNISIA: EXPORT INDUSTRIES PROJECT
LOAN 2522-TUN
PART III
STATISTICAL INFORMATION



- 27 -
Table 1
Related Bank Loans
Loan      Year of   Purpose                                    Amount
No.       Approval                                             Diisbursed
US$mlllion- 
1969      1981       Small-Scale Industry Development          30.0
2012      1981       Textile Rehabilitation                    18.6
2113      1982       Electrical and Mechanical Industries    30.5
2301      1983       Industry IV Foundry                       16.8
Table 2
Proiect Timetable
Stage of Project    Original Date        Actual Date
Cycle                Original Date_Actual _Date
Identification       October 1983        October 1983
Appraisal            April 1984          April 1984
Negotiations         March 1985          March 1985
Board Approval       April 1985          April 1985
Effectiveness        August 1985         June 1986
Loan Closing         June 1991           June 1992
Project Completion  October 1991         October 1992



- 28 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TUNISIA: EXPORT INDUSTRIES PROJECT
LOAN 2522-TUN
Table 3
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
by End of Calendar Year
(US $ million)
Estimated                       Actual
1985                        1.28
1986                        8.10
1987                       22.14                            --
1988                       36.26                           11.96
1989                       44.64                           19.20
1990                      50.00                            24.20
1991                         --                            25.63
1992                         --                            25.70



- 29 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TUNISIA: EXPORT INDUSTRIES PROJECT
LOAN 2522-TUN
Table 4
Selected Project Implementation Indicators
Implementing   Indicators                 Expected   Actual    Comments
Agency                                    Date       Date
The            Preparation of a           3/31/86    3/31/86   03/31/86
Government     Foreign Exchange Risk
of Tunisia     Study
Provision of Export       12/31/85   01/86      01/86
Promotion Fund with
Resources Necessary
for Operation
BDET           Completion of lending    6/31/91    6/31/92   Partial
US$ 20 million from                             Achievement
Loan proceeds to                                US$5.2
enterprises for export                          million lent
projects
BTKD           Completion of lending    06/31/91   6/31/92   Partial
US$ 15 million from                             Achievement
Loan proceeds to                                US$10.4
enterprises for export                          million lent
projects
STUSID         Completion of lending    6131/91    6/31/92   Partial
US$ 15 million from                             Achievement
Loan proceeds to                                US$ 10.1
enterprises for export                          million lent
projects
Table 5
Project Costs and Financing
Project Costs and Financing  Original Est.  Actual Amount
US$ million    US$ million
Bank Financing                  50             26



- 30 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TUNISIA: EXPORT INDUSTRIES PROJECT
LOAN 2522-TUN
Table 6
Project Results
A. Direct Benefits
Estimited at Appraisal                Actual
Expanded resources for export         Achieved but at a lower level of
project investments.                  investment financing demand.
Improved subproject appraisal and     Achieved for BDET and STUSID; BTKD
supervision capability.               still needs some improvement.
Preparation of a Foreign Exchange     Achieved.  Study to serve as a
Risk Study.                           preliminary step for action on
____________________________________ management and funding issues.
Establishment and funding of the      Achieved.  Also project supervision
Export Promotion Fund.                reviewed the Fund's operation and
made recommendations for
improvements.
Establishment of COTUNACE supported   Achieved.  In addition, the Project
by technical assistance and           reviewed the operations of COTUNACE
training.                             and made recommendations for
_____________=______________________ _ _  improvements.



- 31 -
B. Indirect Benefits
Estimated at Appraisal                  Actual
Increase in export earnings of US$      Data not available to link
100 million per year associated with   subprojects with actual export data
investment projects financed.           but, on a global basis manufactured
exports increased dramatically
during the period of project
implementation (1986-1992).
Creation of 10,000 jobs through         Partially Achieved.  Information
investment projects on an initial       from BDET and STUSID indicated
loan amount of US$ 50 million.          creation of 3,535 on disbursement of
US$ 15.3 million.
C. Rates of Return on Subproject Investments
Estimated                               Actual
Minimum ERR of 10 15x-100: (Est.)
Minimum FRR of 122                      15%-67% (Est.)



- 32 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TUNISIA: EXPORT INDUSTRIES PROJECT
LOAN 2522-TUN
Table 7
Status of Project Covenants
A. Loan Agreement (LA)
LA: Section 2.01
Covenant: Borrower Commitment to objectives and responsibilities
under the project.
Status:     Compliance.
LA:         Sections 3.02 - 3.03
Covenant:   General on lending provisions
Statues:    Compliance.
LA:         Section 3.04
Covenant:   Maintain the Expert Promotion Fund, provide it with necessary
resources by December 31, 1985, and provide funds to
enterprises for the promotion of experts to develop new markets
and promote product marketing.
Status:     Compliance.
LA:         Section 3.05
Covenant:   Provision of information reasonably requested by the Bank and
preparation with COTUNACE of a report on the execution, coat
and benefits of parts B + C of the project.
Status:     Not yet received.



- 33 -
LA:         Section 4.01
Covenant:   Negative pledge. (Regulations concerning the creation of
liens).
Status:     Compliance.
LA:         Section 4.02
Covenant:   Borrower responsibility for the conduct of COTUNACE
Status:     Compliance.
LA:         Section 4.03
Compliance: Non-interference with the Development banks in the execution of
responsibilities under the Project Agreement.
Status:     Compliance.
LA:         Section 4.04
Covenant:   Completion of a foreign exchange risk study by March 31, 1985.
Status:     Compliance, results were instrumental in defining a scheme
adopted under SAL I.
LA:         Section 4.05
Covenant:   Protection of BDET, BTKD and STUSID from losses resulting from
exchange rate changes.
Status:     Partial compliance.  Delays in compensating BDET for losses
from exchange rate changes.



- 34 -
LA:         Section 4.06
Covenant:   Bank/Borrower review of financial requirements of Development
Banks by December 31 of each year.
Status:     Compliance.  Done in the context of a review of interest rate
structure in Tunisia.
B. Project Agreement
PA:         Section Z.01
Covenant:   Commitment of BDET, BTKD and STUSID to project objective.
status:     C                                                       ::ince
PA:         Section 2.02 
Covenant:   Execution of iub-loans by BDET, BTKD and STUSID according to
criteria in Schedule l.
Status:     Compliance.
PA:         Soction 2.03
Covenant:  Documentation required for presenting a sub-loan to the Bank.
Status:     Compliance for subprojects for vhichAdocumentation i. available 11
in thie Sank's& files.



- 35 -
PA:         Section 2.04
Covenant:   Obligation of BDET, BTKD and STUSID to protect the interests of
the Bank and the Borrower in contract for sub-loans..
Status:     Compliance.
PA:         Section 2.05
Covenant:   Reporting requirements of BDET, BTKD and STUSID on use of Bank
funds.
Status:     Compliance.  Audit reports submitted with occasional delay.
PA:         Section 2.06
Covenants   Rules governing the establishment of any subsidiaries by DBET,l
BTKD or STUSID.
Status:     Compliance.
PA:         Section 2.07
Covenant:   BDET, BTKD and STUSID to perform obligations under ito
respective Subsidiary Financing Agreement.
Status:     Compliance.
PA:         Section 2.08
Covenant:   Requirement for exchange of views between each of the
participating banks and the Bank on the progress of the
project.
Status:     Compliance.



- 36 -
PA:         Schedule 1
Covenant:   Eligibility criteria for investment projects
| Status:     Compliance.
E PA:         Schedule 2
Covenant:   Appraisal report format
| Status:     Compliance.



- 37 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TUNISIA: EXPORT INDUSTRIES PROJECT
LOAN 2522-TUN
Table 8: Use of Bank Resources
A. Staff Time Allocation by Stage of Project Cycle
(Staffweeks)
Preparation and    Negotiations through    Supervision           Total
FY           Appraisal            Effectiveness
1983          0.5                         ----                  ----             0.5
1984         46.3                         ----                  ----           46.3
1985         12.4                         17.8                  0.7            30.9
1986         ----                         ----                 10.2             10.2
1987         ----                         ----                 10.7            10.7
1988                                                            5.9             5.9
1989         ----                         ----                 11.9            11.9
1990         ----                         ----                 11.3            11.3
1991         ----                         ----                 12.6            12.6
1992         ----                         ----                  3.3             3.3
1993         ----                         ----                  0.7             0.7
Total        59.2                         17.8                 67.3             144.3
Source: MIS



- 38 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TUNISIA: EXPORT INDUSTRIES PROJECT
LOAN 2522-TUN
Table 9: Use of Staff Resources
B. Maior Proiect Missions
Activity  Date                # of    # of       Specialization   Project
days    Persons  represented         Rating
ID         10/11-11/1/83      NS       4         FA, IEC, 2IS      NA
APP        3/19-4/9/84        15       3         FA, EC, IS         NA
SP         9/22-10/9/85       19       2         LO, OF            NA
SPN1       12/2-12/19/85      18       3         FA, EC, OF         NA
SPN2       4/14-5/1/86        17       2         FA                NR
SPN3       5/11-22/86         12       2         LO                NR
SPN4       1/19-2/6/87        20       3         FA, CON, OF        3
SPN5       9/1-10/87          11       1         OF                NR
SPN6       6/26-7/8/88        13       1         CON               NR
SPN7       9/3-16/89          14       4         OF, OA, FA, CON   *
SPN8       10/11-24/90        14       4         OF, OA, FA, CON   *
SPN9       11/4-20/92         17       2         FA, OA            2
Activities: APP = Appraisal;                       ID -  Identification
SP  - Supervision Preparation         SPN - Supervision
Staffing:   EC = Economist                        CON - Consultant
FA - Financial Analyst                IS  - Industrial Specialist
LO - Loan Officer                     OA  = Operations Assistant
OF = Operations Officer
NA - Non Applicable                   NR  - Not Reported
* Based on TORS Supervision Report not on file.



- 37 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TUNISIA: EXPORT INDUSTRIES PROJECT
LOAN 2522-TUN
Table 8: Use of Bank Resources
A. Staff Time Allocation by Stage of Project Cycle
(Staffweeks)
Preparation and    Negotiations through    Supervision          Total
FY          Appraisal            Effectiveness
1983         0.5                                                               0.5
1984        46.3                         ----                 ----            46.3
1985         12.4                        17.8                 0.7             30.9
1986        ----                         ----                10.2             10.2
1987        ----                         ----                10.7             10.7
1988                                     ----                 5.9              5.9
1989        ----                         ----                11.9             11.9
1990        ----                         ----                11.3             11.3
1991        ----                         ----                12.6             12.6
1992        ----                         ----                 3.3              3.3
1993        ----                         ----                 0.7              0.7
Total        59.2                        17.8                67.3             144.3
Source: MIS



- 38 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TUNISIA: EXPORT INDUSTRIES PROJECT
LOAN 2522-TUN
Table 9: Use of Staff Resources
B. Maior Proiect Missions
Activity  Date                 # of     t of      Specialization    Project
days     Persons   represented        Rating
ID         10/11-11/1/83      NS        4         FA, IEC, 2IS       NA
APP        3/19-4/9/84         15       3         FA, EC, IS         NA
SP         9/22-10/9/85        19       2         LO, OF             NA
SPN1       12/2-12/19/85       18       3         FA, EC, OF         NA
SPN2       4/14-5/1/86         17       2         FA                 NR
SPN3       5/11-22/86          12       2         LO                 NR
SPN4       1/19-2/6/87        20        3         FA, CON, OF        3
SPN5       9/1-10/87           11       1         OF                 NR
SPN6       6/26-7/8/88         13       1         CON                NR
SPN7       9/3-16/89           14       4         OF, OA, FA, CON
SPN8       10/11-24/90        14        4         OF, OA, FA, CON
SPN9       11/4-20/92          17       2         FA, OA             2
Activities: APP = Appraisal;                        ID -  Identification
SP  - Supervision Preparation          SPN - Supervision
Staffing:   EC - Economist                          CON - Consultant
FA - Financial Analyst                 IS  - Industrial Specialist
LO = Loan Officer                      OA  - Operations Assistant
OF = Operations Officer
NA - Non Applicable                    NR  - Not Reported
* Based on TORS Supervision Report not on file.



