Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFmFCIAL USE ONLY
,< ,X SEZ- 7vuA/
Report No. P-3996-TUN
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$50.0 MILLION
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
FOR AN
EXPORT INDUSTRIES PROJECT
April 2, 1985
This document hs a restricted distribution and my be used by recipients only in the perfornmnce of
their official duties. Its contents -y not odwewise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.  .



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
December ;983          December 1984
Currency Unit   =                    Tunisian Dinar (TD)         TD
US $ 1                               TD 0.7302              TD 0.8344
TD 1                                 US $1.3695             US $1.1985
Exchange rate used in the Appraisal Report is TD 0.8344.
Fiscal year     =    Calendar year
List oE Abbreviations
BCT          Banque Centrale de Tunisie
BDET         Banque de Developpement Economique de Tunisie
BNDT         Banque Nationale de Developpement Touristique
BTEI         Banque de Tunisie et des Emirates d'investissements
BTKD         Banque Tuniso-Koweitifqne de Developpement
BTQI         Banque Tuniso-Qatari 2.Investissements
CEPEX        Centre de Promotion des Exportations
COTUNACE     Compagnie Tunisienne d'Assurance de Commerce Exterieur
EMI          Electro-Mechanical Industries
ERR          Economic Rate of Return
FRR          Financial Rate of Return
SSI          Small-Scale Industries
STUSID       Societe Tuniso-Seoudienne d'Investissement et de D6veloppement
UTICA        Union Tunisienne de l'Industrie, du Commerce et de l'Artisanat
(Chamber of Commerce)



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
EXPORT INDUSTRIES PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                      Republic of Tunisia.
Beneficiaries:                 Banque de Developpement Economique de Tunisie
(BDET), Banque Tuniso-Koweitienne de
D6veloppement (BTKD). and Societe
Tuniso-Seoudienne d'Investissement et de
Developpement (STUSID).
Amount:                        US$50 million equivalent.
Terms:                         17 years, including 4 years of grace, at the
standard variable interest rate.
Onlending Terms:               The Government would onlend $50.0 million
equivalent in Dinars of the Bank loan to BDET
($20 million equivalent), BTKD ($15 million
equivalent) and STUSID ($15 million equivalent)
at the Bank's standard variable interest rate.
BDET, BTKD and STUSID would repay their loans to
the Government according to a composite
amortization schedule of the sub-loans financed
out of the proceeds of the loan. The Government
would bear the foreign exchange risk.
Sub-borrowers would be charged an effective
interest rate of at Least 11 percent per annum.
Proiect
Description:                   The project would assist the Government of
Tunisia in developing Tunisia's export
industries through a line of credit to BDET,
BTKD and STUSID. The Project also includes the
establishment of an Export Promotion Fund and
technical assistance to Compagnie Tunisienne
d'Assurance de Commerce Exterieur (COTUNACE),
the Government's newly established export credit
insurance company. The project consists of a
line of credit of US $50 million equivalent to
BDET, BTKD and STUSID to enable these banks to
make sub-loans for eligible export projects.
This document has a stricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Assistance from bilateral sources and UNDP will
finance a $0.15 million equivalent technical
assistance package to COTUNACE. The Government
is financing from its own resources the Export
Promotion Fund. The project will increase
export earnings and job availability, strengthen
three development banks and COTUNACE, and,
through the Export Promotion Fund, encourage
such marketing aud promotion.  The project
involves no special risks, though some risk is
attached to external factors which could depress
export possibilities.
Estimated Disbursements:
(in $'000)
Bank FY               FY86     FY87      FY88      FY89      FY90   FY91
Annual               2550     11075     17000    11250      5525      2600
Cumulative          2550      13625     30625    41875    47400    50000
Appraisal Report:  No.  5251-TUN of March 20, 1985
Map: No. IBRD 18707
.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
THE REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA FOR AN EXPORT INDUSTRIES PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and recomendation on a proposed loan
for the equivalent of US$50.0 million to the Republic of Tunisia to help
finance an Export Industries Project. The loan would have a term of 17
years, incl-uding 4 years of grace, at the standard variable interest rate.
Twenty million dollars of the proceeds of the Loan would be onlent to the
Banque de D6veloppement Economique de Tunisie (BDET), $15 million to Banque
Tuniso-Koweitienne de Developpement (BTKD), and $15 million to Societe
Tuniso-Seoudienne d'Investissement et de Developpement (STUSID) for a term
of 17 years, at the Bank's standard variable interest rate. The Government
would bear the foreign exchange risk.
PART I - THE ECONOMY -'
2.   A special economic report entitled "Tunisia - Review of the Sixth
Development Plan (1982-86)" (No. 4137-TUN), in two volumes, was distributed
to the Executive Directors on March 16, 1983 and June 29, 1983. An economic
mission to review the performance of Plan implementation at mid-term visited
Tunisia in April 1984; its findings are reflected in this part and the
country data sheets, attached in Annex I.
3.  Tunisia is a medium-size, middle-income country with a population of 7
million and a per capita income of $1200.-' Much of Tunisia is arid or
semi-arid. Only three percent of arable land is irrigated, and areas where
rainfed agriculture is possible are subject to severe year-to-year
fluctuation in rainfall. Nevertheless, agriculture still occupies nearly
one out of every three Tunisians in the labor force. Tunisia's most
important raw materials are phosphates, petroleum and natural gas. Known
exploitable reserves of oil and gas are approaching depletion, and new
hydrocarbon reserves are limited and require costly off-shore drilling;
priority is now given to slowing down the growth of domestic consumption by -
conservation and pricing measures. The low quality of phosphate deposits
constrains the expansion of the highly efficient Tunisian phosphate
processing industry. The country also has considerable tourism potential,
but after a period of rapid expansion, the sector is experiencing
difficulties in maintaining competitive prices and quality standards.
4.   Tunisia has undertaken a massive effort to develop its human resources,
1/ Part I is substantially the same as Part I of the President's Report No.
P-3954-TUN of February 20, 1985 for a Northwest Agricultural Production
Project.
2/ 1984 preliminary figure at current prices and current exchange rates.



- 2 -
paying special attention to family welfare, education, and technical and
vocational training. As a result, between the early 1960s and the early
1980s, the infant mortality rate declined from almost 160 to 65,
the expectation of life at birth rose from 48 to 61 years, the adult literacy
rate increased from about 15 to about 62 percent, and average caloric supply
per capita increased from 83 to 116 percent of minimum standard requirements.
An active family planning policy pursued by the Government led to a decrease
in fertility and birth rates. Even though mortality rates also decreased, the
gross reproduction rate decreased markedly from 3.5 to 2.1 percent over the
same period. However, since net emigration of Tunisians abroad was sharply
reduced by restrictive measures taken in the EEC countries and Libya, the
growth rate of the labor force accelerated, a main reason for the rapidly
growing, serious unemployment problem. Open unemployment reached 14 percent
in 1983 and underemployment is extensive. These problems are particularly
serious among young school dropouts.
5.       During the 1970s, the Tunisian economy did extremely well.  Rapid
growth in the range of 7-8 percent was accompanied by substantial structural
transformation as manufacturing and tourism became more diversified, and their
share in total exports increased. Economic performance benefitted from
substantial terms of trade gains due to the rapid price increase of oil,
allowing both consumption and domestic savings to increase and investment to
remain high (over 30 percent of GDP). It also benefitted from improved
economic management with a cautious shift toward a more liberal,
market-oriented economy. The current account deficit, averaging 5 to 6
percent of CDP over the period, was easily financed, much of it by direct
foreign investment. The only major problem was a high rate of unemployment
and underemployment.
6.       To accelerate job creation, more than half of total investments of
the Fifth Plan (1977-81) was allocated to directly productive sectors, but the
direct employment effects of the leading sectors (petroleum, phosphate mining
and processing, and tourism) were small and unemployment continued to
increase. These sectors, however, made a vital contribution to GDP, public
savings and exports. They provided 52 percent of the country's fGre-ign
exchange earnings in 1983, while manufacturing activities, except
phosphate-based chemicals, provided 19 percent.
7.       The Sixth Plan (1982-86) proposes a number of policy reforms to face
the consequences of rising unemployment and the progressive decline in net
energy exports. Its main objectives were employment generation, export
promotion, regional development and public sector efficiency. Investment
priority was given to agriculture, engineering industries and tourism. The
overall rate of investment was projected to decline during the Plan period.
To minimize the effects on economic growth and employment, measures were
proposed to increase the efficiency of existing investments and to encourage a
shift to labor-intensive activities. These measures were to be accompanied by
a substantially tightened incomes policy, in particular cautious wage and
salary policies and a considerable slowdown in the growth of recurrent budget
expenditures.



-3-
8.       The Sixth Plan started poorly.  In 1982, a prolonged drought
depressed agricultural output and agro-industrial production, technical
problems plagued the phosphate and cement industries, and tourism and exports
of manufactured goods were adversely affected by the recession in Europe.  The
economy recovered in 1983 and 1984 due to buoyant growth in manufacturing
output, stimulated by rapidly growing local demand. This brought the average
annual growth of GDP in the first three years of the Plan to 3.5 percent,
compared to 5.3 percent targeted. This performance is nonetheless commendable
in view of the world recession and compared with other countries.
9.       More worrisome than the slowdown in economic growth are the
macroeconomic imbalances, which have worsened over the last years. In
contradiction to the Plan's macroeconomic scenario, the investment rate
remained high rather than declined, mainly due to high public enterprise
investments in energy and transportation, and consumption expanded rapidly,
fuelled by sharp increases in wages and salaries. The corresponding strong
demand pressure, facilitated by rather liberal credit policies, was reflected
in rising inflation: 13.6 percent in 1982, compared to a 7.8 percent average
over 1977-81; it was slowed to 9 percent in 1983 through increased price
controls. Lower than planned overall economic growth, higher capital
intensity of new investments, and the sharp increase in labor costs combined
to keep employment creation below Plan goals, and unemployment further
increased.
10.      Despite a virtual stagnation of imports (in constant prices) due to
tightened import control, the current account deficit of the balance of
payments deteriorated to 8.2, percent of GDP by 1984. A fall in exports of
petroleum and of agricultural products, and a slowdown in tourism, depressed
export receipts. Direct foreign investment (mainly in the oil and gas sector)
stagnated in 1983-84. Nevertheless, Tunisia's net foreign exchange reserves
increased substantially to reach 1.7 months of imports at end-1983, as
compared to 1.4 at end-1980. This reflects, inter alia, a revaluation of the
Central Bank's foreign exchange assets, as well as the Government's drawing
down part of a syndicated Eurodollar loan contracted in 1982. In mid-1984,
reserves were some 13 percent above the mid-1983 level.
11.      The budgetary situation has also deteriorated since 1981; the Central
v         Government's overall budget deficit jumped from 1.7 to 7 percent of GDP
between 1981-84. This reflected increases in public investments and in
recurrent expenditures due to wage and salary increases, higher subsidy
payments to households and public enterprises, and growing dollar-denominated
debt service payments caused by the 30 percent dollar appreciation vis-a-vis
the Tunisian dinar batween 1981-84. On the other hand, this latter factor
helped keep petroleum revenues from falling, and total revenues showed a
continuous growth despite the recession. In 1983-84, recurrent expenditure
growth slowed considerably, however, as a result of a freeze in Government
salaries and wages and of lower consumer subsidies.



- 4 -
12.      Medium-term prospects depend on two main factors: future developments
in the hydrocarbon sector; and the speed with which the Government implemen:ts
the far-reaching macroeconomic policy changes outlined in the Sixth Plan. Oil
and gas exploration programs under way have not been encouraging. Based on
known reserves, and with the possible exploitation of smaller fields that
recently became profitable, it is generally expected that domestic oil and gas
production could be stabilized at abo,; its present annual level of 5-6
million tons of oil equivalent until the end of the decade. Barring large new
oil or gas discoveries, and given the rise in domestic demand for energy,
Tunisia would turn into a net importer of oil in the early 1990s.
13.      Making the necessary adjustments to prepare the economy for the post-
hydrocarbon era is made more difficult by increasing financial and balance of
payments constraints. While there is little disagreement about the
desirability or objectives of economic reform, the appropriate implementation
measures and particularly the speed of reform are more controversial. While
undeniable progress has been made since the early 1980s in several respects,
other factors have worked in the opposite direction (para. 14). Over the last
years, the Government has focussed with some success on administrative type
measures. Legitimately concerned with the immediate economic and social
problems, it resorted to short-term measures and direct, quantitative controls
such as mandatory price reductions and import restrictions. Among longer-term
policies, only export promotion was addressed by a sufficiently broad approach
(tax rebates, foreign exchange risk insurance, special credit, trade
companies). The price liberalization process has moved slowly, with some
reductions in price subsidies (particularly for agricultural inputs,
transportation and energy) and some liberalization in the price regimes for
manufactured goods. Economic incentives have been modified to promote
regional development and stimulate smaller firms, but the existing bias in
favor of capital-intensive investment rather than employment has little
changed. Finally, fiscal reform has been initiated.
14.      Policy reforms to address the root causes of the structural
imbalances identified by the Sixth Plan have been less actively pursued.
Specifically, major areas that need greater attention are: (a) wage and
salary policies, which should become more restrictive, so as to slow down
growth of public and private consumption and stimulate savings,
labor-intensive investments and exports and, thus, increase employment
creation. As mentioned before, recent trends have been in the opposite
direction; (b) subsidy policies, with consumer subsidies to be reduced so as
to dampen private consumption and stimulate public savings. Some encouraging
first steps have been taken in this respect, but more action is needed; (c)
interest policies, to make interest rates positive in real terms, so as to
stimulate savings and labor-intensive investments. A thorough reassessment of
these policies is underway; {d) public enterprise reform, to stop the drain of
public enterprise deficits on the Government budget. First steps have been
taken in this direction, and a number of enterprises have been closed; (e)
public investments, which should be reduced to decrease the budget deficit,
but made more efficient and reoriented so as to increase their contribution to
economic growth and employment creation. A particularly careful screening of
projects will be necessary in the future; (f) domestic protection and pricing
policies so as to create more incentives for exports, particularly for
manufactured products; and {g) exchange rate policies, so as to ensure that
exports (including tourism) become more competitive.



15.      Even if the Government moves more rapidly in implementing all or most
of the above measures, the delays incurred so far in meeting the Sixth Plan
macroeconomic targets and in implementing its policy recommendations will
probably not be recovered by 1986. It is unlikely therefore that medium-term
GDP annual growth will match the 6 to 8 percent rate achieved in the past. A
growth rate not exceeding 4 percent would be more commensurate with the need
to control current account deficits without a systematic recourse to
quantitative protection measures or excessive external borrowing. This 4
*          percent growth rate takes account of the projected stagnation or even decline
of hydrocarbon production. It also assumes that while agriculture will remain
sensitive to weather conditions, manufacturing will perform well as the full
impact of the export promotion policies is felt.
16.      Social Issues.  Since independence, the country has gone a long way
towards meeting the basic needs of its population. Over 16 percent of GDP is
now devoted to social programs, and the number of absolute poor declined from
17 percent of total population in 1975 to 13 percent in 1980. This
improvement was largely concentrated, however, in urban areas. Since 1981,
social issues have faced a different context than in the 1970s. when an easy
financial situation seemed to allow a relatively unconstrained expansion of
social services.  On one hand, the Tunisian population has become incre;isingly
aware of and sensitive to thp issues of income distribution ar.d the
Government's responsibility for redistribution. Furthermore, the beneficial
effects of past rapid expansion in social services, reflected in the
improvement of the country social data (see Annex I), have created a demand
for improved standards in social services delivery. On the other hand, the
provision of adequate social services - education, health, town
infrastructure, housing - is being increasingly hampered by budgetary
constraints. Attempts to -espond to protect the workers by raising the levels
of minimum legal wages and social insurance has discouraged private business
from increasing employaent.
17.      To reduce internal differ-nces, in parcicular between rural and urban
areas and among workers in the modern sector and those precariously employed
in informal activities, the Covernment is channelling more resources into
regional development and youtch employment. Integrated rural programs are
being developed to stimulate productive job creation and grassroots
participation. Subsidses an-d credit facilities are granted for young
technicians to create tieir own enterprises and for entrepreneurs to create
new projects in underdeveloped regions.  More efforts are needed, however, to
strengthen the coo-dination of vocational and on-the-job training with market
demand. To reduce the financial burden of social services, the administration
is reviewing the cost structure of the various types of social services,
including free or below-cost delivery and the introduction of some user fees.
Special efforts are needed to improve social infrastructure mAnagement, in
particular as regards hospitals. Also, decentralization of social facilities
in deprived zones will have to be assessed carefully because costs for
servicing and maintaining them could become rapidly prohibitive.
18.      External Assistance and Foreign Debt.  During the second half of the
1970s, foreign borrowing was modest and a large share of foreign funds was



-6-
provided by public sources at relatively soft terms. At the end of 1979, debt
outstanding and disbursed was estimated at $3 billion, or 42 percent of GDP;
debt service was 10 percent of export revenues. For reasons mentioned earlier
(para. 10), the balance of payments deficit has increased substantially since
then, as has foreign indebtedness. Total public foreign debt outstanding and
disbursed at the end of 1983 is estimated at $3.9 billion, equivalent to about
48 percent of GDP; according to preliminary estimates, it reached about $4.3
billion (52 percent of GDP) at the end of 1984. The relative burden of debt
servicing reached 18-20 percent in 1983-84. However, a relatively cautious
debt management policy has been followed by the Tunisian authorities. While
the share of short-term borrowings has increased slightly since 1980,
Tunisia's overall foreign debt remains overwhelmingly long and mediumr-term,
and debt service requirements are projected to increase only slowly. During
1978-82, 65 percent of foreign loan commitments were from official sources and
about 30 percent on concessional terms. Just over half of official
commitments came from bilateral sources (mainly France, Japan, the Federal
Republic of Germany and some Arab oil-producing countries), and about 24
percent each from the Bank Group and from other multilateral sources. Overall
borrowing terms were favorable, averaging 7.4 percent interest and 15.8 years
maturity, including a grace period of 4.2 years.
19.      In the medium-term, external capital requirements will clearly remain
manageable. In the longer-term, much will depend on the policy changes to be
initiated during the next few years, and on developments in the hydrocarbon
sector. The Government's medium-term objective is to maintain the present
level of indebtedness; this prospect strongly depends on a timely
implementation of policy measures to accelerate exports, reduce public
investments, lower domestic demand growth, and liberalize regulation and
controls. On this basis, the current account deficit is projected to
fluctuate around 0700 million until 1986, but decline thereafter. New loan
commitments from abroad could be kept below $1.2 billion per year on average
(in current prices at the 1984 exchange rate), while net foreign borrowing
might average about $450 million between now and the early 1990s.
20.      Tunisia, after a decade of outstanding performance, is facing the
major challenge of adapting its economic structure at a time of external and
internal financial constraints. A strategy of demand restraint combined with
more liberal economic policies is called for to preserve the country's
financial stability and creditworthiness and, thus, its considerable long-term
growth potential. Considering its long record of prudent and skillful balance
of payments and external debt management, there are good grounds to assume
that Tunisia will implement the necessary policy changes, and remain
creditworthy for a continued high volume of Bank lending.



PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TUNISIA
21.      Since 1962, the Bank has committed to Tunisia sixty-five loans and
ten IDA credits amounting respectively to $1,341.0 million and $75.2 million
(net of cancellations) of which forty-one loans and credits have been fully
disbursed. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans, IDA credits
and IFC investments as of September 30, 1984. Project implementation is
generally satisfactory. As of September 30, 1984, overall disbursements
amounted to 50 percent of appraisal estimates, which is in line with
experience in other countries in the region. Disbursement performance for
irrigation, industrial finance and port projects has generally been above the
country average, while longer than average disbursement delays have been
experienced for agricultural credit, education, highway, urban and fisheries
projects, due to project-specific problems that are being addressed through
supervision missions and sector discussions. In a number of sectors,
important institutional improvements have been achieved, and autonomous
agencies have been created or strengthened to ensure the efficient management
of the related sectors or subsectors.
22.      The Bank's lending strategy in Tunisia aims at supporting the
country's transition from a si.tuatinn nf reliance on petroleum exports to a
sectorally-balanced post-hydrocarbon era through appropriate changes in
economic policies and programs. This a&justment process, as outlined in the
Sixth Development Plan, will require.further diversification of exports,
greater savings efforts, reduction in consumer subsidies, gradual
liberalization of all sectors of the economy, and stronger incentives to the
private sector particularly in agriculture and industry, while taking measures
to increase employment and tarnet.d-vlopnent to low-income groups.  In
support of the above, the overall objective of Bank lending is to emphasize
projects which have a direct and rapid impact on production, employment and
exports (or import savings) and-w'"ch minimize Government net contributions.
The focus of lending for agriculture and industry meets this objective. In
addition te the above, pro'osed Rank lending would focus on improvement of
public enterprise performance, development and conservation of energy
resources, and continued support to the social sectors and operations targeted
to low-income groups. For the latter, attention would be given to increased
efficiency and cost-effectiveness of institutions and investments and to
linkages with directly productive sectors (e.g., education reforms stressing
vocational training). We envisage only marginal lending for basic economic
infrastructure, focussed in areas where Bank guidance would still be useful,
such as rural water supply and highways maintenance.
23.      Past Bank lending emphasized support for long-term investments in
infrastructure and social development, each of which accounted for about
one-third of Bank/IDA commitments since 1971. The rest of the commitments
were almost equally distributed between agriculture and industrial financing.
In addition, the Bank has made two loans for technical assistance. Within the
broad framework noted in para. 22, we expect a significant shift in our
lending, with well over half going to agriculture and industry. In addition
to the already approved Northwest Agricultural Production Project and this
project, proposed lending in the next couple of years would include projects
for irrigation, grain storage, credit lines for electromechanical and
small-scale industry, textile rehabilitation, urban development, energy, and
sector loans for agriculture and industry.



- 8 -
24.      The Bank's economic and sector work will continue to focus on
strengthening the macroeconomic and sector base for our lending program. It
will be centered on the analysis of economic issues and policies, related to
the necessary adaptation process from a petroleum-exportingpto
importing country.  This analysis, which was included in           ial economic
report entitled "Tunisia - Review of the Sixth Developme   Plan (1982-86)"
(No. 4137-TUN), dated March 16, 1983 and June 29, 1983, is being pursued
through a number of studies. A mid-term performance review of the Sixth Plan
is being discussed with the Government, as are studies on industrial
employment creation and on the financial sector. A number of key studies
resulted from provisions in Bank loans, for example on the institutional and
incentive framework for electromechanical industries and for exports in
general. In time, the recommendations of these studies, and of those
currently in progress (industrial policy study, agricultural strategy paper)
will provide the basis for policy action programs. Further economic and
sector work includes studies of educational finance and administration,
housing finance, and a review of public enterprise performance.
25.      The Bank and IDA accounted for about 19 percent of total public
commitments to Tunisia during 1982-1984. Their share in total debt
outstanding and disbursed at the end of 1984 (including loans from private
sources) was an estimated 14 percent, and their share in debt service during
1984 was 13 percent. The share of the Bank and IDA in Tunisia's disbursed
external debt is expected to increase to 15 percent and their share in the
debt service to about 13.5 percent through 1986.
26.      As of September 30, 1984, IFC's net commitment in Tunisia totalled
$14.0 million. IFC has invested in the Economic Development Bank of Tunisia
(BDET), in 1966, 1970, and 1978; in the National Bank for Tourism Development
(BINDT) to promote and invest in tourism projects; in the Societe Touristique
et Hoteliere (RYM), a large hotel development; in the Industries Chimiques du
Fluor (ICF), a producer of aluminum fluoride from local fluorspar for export;
and in the Societe d'Etudes et de D4veloppement de Sousse-Nord for an
integrated tnurism development project. In FY84, IFC approved two new equity
investments in Tunisia: (i) Fluobar, a project to privatize, rehabilitate and
expand an existing fluorspar mine; and (ii) Tunisia Leasing Company, the first
leasing company in Tunisia to provide financing to the industrial sector. IFC
is considering the following activities: (i) participation in an expansion
program under study by ICF; (ii) purchase of additional share capital under
expansion programs planned by BNDT and BDET; and (iii) at the Government's
request, privatization of certain state-owned industrial projects.
PART III - THE MANUFACTURING SECTOR AND EXPORTS OF MANUFACTURED PRODUCTS
27.      The role of the sector in the economy.  Manufacturing industry has
been a relatively fast-growing sector. It is well diversified and has
contributed successfully to the Government's main economic objectives of
employment creation, attracting foreign investments and know-how, and
generating foreign exchange earnings to offset the decline in oil revenues.
In the long term, traditional exports, such as phosphate-based industries and
agricultural products, will offer only modest growth prospects. Also, the



- 9 -
size of the domestic market will provide only limited opportunities for
further import substitution. Manufacturing exports, therefore, will be the
principal instrument for creating additional employment. stimulating growth
and alleviating balance-of-payments problems.
28.      Structure and Pprformance.   Manufacturing industry's share in GDP
increased from an average of 7.5 percent per annum in the 1960s to 10 n
percent in the 1970s and 14.2 percent in 1980-83. The average annual grjwth
rate of the industry was about 11.5 percent during the period 1971-81.
Following a year of stagnation in 1982, growth resumed in 1983 and reached an
annual rate of 12.0 percent in real terms. Starting in the 1970s, and due
largely to the Government's strong support, the private sector became a major
factor in fostering this growth. Investment in manufacturing grew at an
average rate of 21.1 percent in real terms during the period 1980-83 and
represented 19.7 percent of total investments. The public sector accounted
for over half of all investments in the sector and has concentrated its
involvement in chemicals (fertilizers), construction materials (cement) and
agro-industries (sugar). The private sector dominates textile and
miscellaneous manufacturing industries.  Employment creation has been one of
the main objectives of industrial policy and close to one-fifth of the labor
force is engaged in Tunisia's manufacturing industries.
29.      Exports of Manufactured Products.  Until the early 1970s, Tunisia's
industrialization policy was based essentially on import substitution. As a
result, the country's exports consisted of foodstuffs, phosphates and
petroleum products. In 1972, the country initiated a major export drive. Law
72-38 instituted a generous incentive system for export industries and
favorable treatment to exporters with regards to taxes, exchange controls and
customs regulations; this has attracted both foreign and domestic investments
into "off-shore" manufacturing operations (enterprises that export all of
their output) and by 1981 provided employment for 30,000 workers. As a
result, the real value of manufacturing exports increased more than four-fold
in real terms during the 1971-1983 period. The vigorous growth compensated
for the decrease in e'rnrte nf petroleum prodiwrtc znd, in 1983, manufactured
products surpassed petroleum as the main contributor to total exports (52.5
percent, including processed foods, versus 42.8 percent).
30.      Traditional exports will be insufficient to offset the projected
decline in oil-export revenues. The Sixth Development Plan (1982-86)
therefore puts major emphasis on the stimulation and diversification of
manufactured exports. Past export performance, based on the country's
comparative advantage, suggests that the Plan's emphasis is appropriate.
Tunisia has a well-trained labor force whose wages are still well below
European levels; it has liberal investment policies with regard to foreign and
private investments, is close to Europe and the Arab countries, and has
preferential access to the EEC market. This gives the country a comparative
advantage in efficient production of capital, intermediate and consumer goods
for exports, particularly in sub-sectors using labor-intensive ani simple or
intermediate technologies. However, to realize this export potential, Tunisia
would have to further improve its sectoral policies (para. 31) and also meet
the long-term financial and institutional support needs of investors in a
time'Jy and efficient manner. In this respect, its established development
banking system would have a major role to play, and this project supports this
role.



- 10 -
31.      Industrial Sector Constraints.  To attain the full development and
export potential in the sector, the Government would need to further address
imbalances in the relative factor costs of labor and capital and in the
protection/incentives structure on three major fronts. First, due to strong
unions, the cost of labor is rigidly determined and has been raised beyond
productivity increases in recent years. At the same time, negative deposit
rates and marginally positive lending rates have understated the economic cost
of capital. In certain instances, this imbalance has encouraged capital
intensive industries despite the considerable unemployment prevailing in the
country. Second, administered prices, import restrictions, tariff policy and
investment licensing practices have together encouraged uncompetitive
production in the domestic market and detracted from the export potential of
that segment of the industry. Third, the present highly regulated industrial
environment has not been conducive to proper sectoral planning and
intersectoral linkages. The Government is now focussing on these issues which
are expected to be addressed in 1985-1986 in light of the preparation of the
next Plan (1987-1992).
32.      The Financial Environment.   Tunisia's monetary system consists of
the Banque Centrale de Tunisie (BCT), ten commercial banks and the postal
check system. The other financial institutions consist of eight operating
development banks, two savings organizations, eight portfolio management
companies, eight off-shore banks and five foreign bank representative
offices. The stock and bond exchange is in the early stages of development.
The commercial banks, which are -essentially deposit-retail banks, are small by
internationa'l standards. In 1982, the total assets oi the ten commercial
banks did not exceed about $5.0 billion. Comnercial banks can provide short
and medium-term loans up to a maximum of seven years. Loans over seven years
are exceptional and can only be provided by commercial banks from special
resources (i.e., non-deposits), which have a maturity of more than seven
years.  However, credits over seven years can be authorized for public
enterprises from regular commercial bank resources as long as these credits do
not surpass 3 percent of total deposits of the bank in question.
33.      Until 1980, the Banque de D6veloppement Economique de Tunisie (BDET)
and the Banque Nationale de Developpement Touristique (BNDT) were the only
institutions specialized in long-term financing of industry and tourism.
Since then, several new development banks have been created. Three of these
are special-purpose banks (agriculture, bilateral ventures). Five others,
namely Banque Tuniso-Koweitienne de Developpement (BTKD), the Societe Tuniso-
Seoudienne d'Investissement et de Developpement (STUSID), the Banque de
Tunisie et des Emirates d'Investissements (BTEI), the Banque Tuniso-Qatari
dlInvestissements (BTQI), and a Tuniso-Bahraini bank about to be established
are joint-ventures between Tunisia and other Arab countries. A
Tuniso-Senegalese and Tuniso-Italian develcoment bank are also being
established. In comparison with the commercial banks, these banks have
relatively large share capitals, which have been subscribed equally between
Tunisia and the respective foreign parties. Long-term lending to industry is
provided essentially by the development banks, which have been created for
this purpose. They have or are developing the capability to appraise,
supervise and promote industrial ventures in all industrial sub-sectors.
Commercial banks do not have the incentive and resource base to enter into
long-term lending. They provide mostly short- and medium-term credit and only



- 11 -
under exceptional arrangements long-term credit. There is thus a clear
division of focus between commercial banks and development banks. This
project addresses the main resource need in Tunisia, related to long-term
lending by development banks. The inclusion of BTKD and STUSID in the project
will significantly add to the number of viable export projects. The two
development banks have given priority to export projects in the past and the
proposed Bank loan has already led them to identify additional viable export
projects. The two institutions are financially viable and well managed.
34.      Export/Imyort Financing.  The financing of export and import
transactions is strictly controlled by BCT. Exporters must repatriate the
proceeds of their exports and are allowed a maximum amount (4 percent of the
proceeds) in convertible Dinars to pay for incidental expenditures related to
their export business. On the basis of agreed import allocations, which have
been liberalized progressively, commercial banks provide pre-financing credit
for imported goods and services required by the prospective exporter. These
credits, as well as those to finance claims originating from realized exports,
are subject to favorable interest rates (6.5 percent), unlimited rediscount
facility (at 4.75 percent) and are not subject to prior approval for
rediscounting. In the future, these credits will be insured by Compagnie
Tunisienne d'Assurance de Commerce Exterieur (COTUNACE), which will be a
significant improvement since, in the past, credit was often restricted
because of insufficient collateral provided by exporters. Medium-term export
credit is provided by the BCT through the commercial banks on a case-by-case
basis and is tailored to the particular needs of the very few manufacturers
who export capital equipment (transformers, railway wagons, metal structures)
A medium-term export-credit scheme to finance exports of capital goods is
under study.
35.      Financial Policy Issues.  Interest rates on term deposits
(7.75 percent after tax on deposits over two years) and savings accounts (8.75
percent) have either been negative or barely positive in real terms in the
last three years (percentage changes in the consumer price index were 10.0 in
1980, 9.0 in 1981, 13.6 in 1982, 9.0 in 1983 and about 8.3 in 1984
(estimate)).  Also, Tunisia's interest rates have been relatively low in
comparison with interest rates abroad, particularly those prevailing in the
international market.  That savings as a percentage of GDP have remained
relatively stable is attributed mainly to income effects arising from
substantial wage increases in the last few years. The relatively low interest
rates on commercial-bank deposits have kept the average cost of funds for
these banks at about 6 percent, taking into account that sight deposits, which
constitute between 55 percent and 60 percent of banks' resources, are
remunerated at the rate of 1 percent for enterprises and 2 percent for
individuals. Development banks on the other hand cannnt accept deposits and
depend mainly on the international market for raising resources. BDET has
raised $60 million in 1983 from the international market, and its average cost
of borrowing has increased to about 8.4 percent p.a. from 7.4 percent in 1980.
36.      Commercial banks make medium-term loans to industry at the rate of
about 10 percent, which allows them a financial spread of about 4 percent.
BDET has increased the interest rates on its loans, e.g., from 9.0 percent
p.a. in 1981 to about 11.0 percent p.a. for SSI, to 12.5 percent p.a. for
tourism projects and to 13 percent p.a. for large (over TD 1.5 million)



- 12 -
projects. However, given the small proportion of new higher interest loans in
the total portfolio, the average rate on lending remains about 10 percent
p.a. The difference between BDET's average borrowing and lending costs
attains 2 percent when taking into consideration the amounts of Government
reimbursements for foreign currency losses on borrowings. The Government is
focussing on the overall effective interest rate of development banks in the
context of a financial sector study, which will be discussed with the
Government before June 1985. This study proposes an overall upward adjustment
in the structure of interest rates together with a simplification and
harmonization of the complex existing structure. It also proposes the
introductior. of a more flexible rate adjustment system to allow rates to be
adjusted more frequently to changes in the liquidity situation, the domestic
inflation rate and interest rates abroad. These recommendations will be
discussed with the Government in the context of the above-mentioned study. It
wps agreed during negotiations that the Bank will review annually with BDET,
BTKD and STUSID their interest rates and structure in the light of their
average cost of capital, administrative costs and the general evolution of
i'tIerest rates, and, after such reviews, all necessary measures shall be taken
by the development banks to achieve a reasonable spread (2 percent),
permitting the establishment of sufficient reserves and provisions and a
reasonable return on capital (Project Agreement, Section 4.10). The
Government agreed that the development banks be allowed to take the measures
to attain such objectives (Loan Agreement, Section 4.03). The Government and
BDET, BTKD and STUSID shall also review with the Bank at the same time as the
interest rate review the resource needs of the banks for the following year
(Loan Agreement, Section 4.07; Project Agreement, Section 4.11). For 1985,
undertakings have been reached, on the basis of agreed plans, to meet the
resource needs.
37.      Foreign Exchange Risk.  In the past, the Government carried the
foreign currency risk on the foreign borrowings of BDET. Until 1981, the
Dinar appreciated in relation to the basket of currencies used for evaluat4-n
and over a period of ten years, the overall result has been positive. Since
1981, however, the situstion. of the Tunisian Dinar has changed, particularly
vis4--vis the dollar. In the period 1981-19Y2, BDET had incurred foreign
currency losses on its foreign borrowings totalling about $23.3 million ($6.2
on account of interest and $17.1 on account of principal) of which as of
December 31, 1984, the Government had reimbursed BDET $10.1 million ($6.2
million for interest and $3.9 million for principal). During negotiations the
Government has committed itself to reimburse the balance ($13.2 million)
before the end of 1985. In 1984, it is estimated that BDET incurred
additional foreign currency losses of $10.6 million ($3.5 million on account
of interest and $7.1 million on account of principal).  The Goverment has
committed itself to reimburse BDET for these losses before the end of 1986.
The Government will continue to cover the foreign exchange risk of the
development banks (Loan Agreement, Section 4.05) until agreement has been
reached on the results of a study, to be undertaken by the Government and to
be reviewed by the Bank by March 31, 1986, on alternative mechanisms to cover
the foreign exchange risk (Loan Agreement, Section 4.04). The results of the
recommendations of the study will be applied by the development banks to
subborrowers (Loan Agreement, Schedule 4; Project Agreement, Schedule 1).
38.      Bank Role in Export Promotion.  Export incentives, provided by
existing legislation and regulations in the form of tax holidays, exemption



- 13 -
from duties and liberal foreign exchange provisions, are generous. Further
improvements in the export climate have been introduced over the last three
years within the framework of the Bank's dialogue with the Government,
including increasing: (i) the availability of export credit, (ii) the foreign
exchange allocation for exporters, and (iii) the ceiling of pre-financing of
exports and including the lengthening of the duration of claims abroad.
Subsequently, the Government has set up COTUNACE and, under new legislation,
has allowed the establishment of export trading companies which will benefit
from customs, foreign exchange and tax facilities.  Whereas export and import
procedures for the offshore firms are simple, other firms are subject to
import content checks and cumbersome procedures for drawback, temporary
admission and foreign exchange allocation. In view of the complexity of
procedures which exporters face and considering that many regulations are
either unclear or unknown to exporters, the Government will, in the context of
this project, prepare before December 31, 1985 a comprehensive guidebook
describing the procedures for exporters. The Government has also become aware
that the procedures themselves require simplification, harmonization and
general improvement in their application to assure that they do not stand in
the way of promoting exports and integrating domestic industries which supply
the needs of exporters, and a number of simplification measures have been
taken as a result of recommendations made during this project's preparation.
In addition, the customs authorities have set up a service department for
aiding exporters in regard to administrative procedures.
39.      Bank Role in the Manufacturing Sector.  Through its loans to the
manufacturing industries, the Bank aims at promoting industrial decentral-
ization, export diversification and labor-intensive industries in support of
the Government's high priority objectives. Bank assistance was channeled
mostly through BDET, which benefitted, to date, from eight operations
totalling $129.2 million (net of cancellations), of which $14.48 million
remained undisbursed as of December 31, 1984. These Bank loans have
contributed to BDET's institutional growth and have confirmed BDET's role as a
catalyst in mobilizing resources for private investment, specifically in the
manufacturing sector.  Through its representative on BDET's Board, IFC has
offered a substantial contribution in this regard. The Project Performance
Audit Report of September 1981 on Loans 648, 798, and 881, covering the third
(1969), fourth (1972) and fifth (1973) loans to BDET, concluded that
considerable progress had been made in terms of institution building and
management performance, and that these loans had contributed to changing
*          BDET's role from a supplier of equity funds for public sector industries, to
that of financier and advisor of private investors. The seventh loan to BDET
(Loan 1504 of 1978) included a credit line for a pilot Small-Scale Industries
(SSI) scheme (Loan 1505 of 1978) which prepared the ground for a $30 million
loan to SSI through commercial banks and BDET as intermediaries (Loan 1969 of
1981). BDET has since channelled a Bank loan (Loan 2113 of 1982) to EMI. The
Bank has also made two direct loans to industry: Loan 2012 of 1981 helps
improving public sector textile operations and Loan 2301 of 1983 helps
moderaize and expand a large foundry. Implementation of ongoing projects is
proceedilxg satisfactorily.



- 14 -
40.      Important measures have been undertaken by the Tunisian authorities
in recent years to strengthen fiscal and financial incentives to exporters, to
simplify administrative procedures and to set up and strengthen institutions
to foster export growth. Several of these measures were taken in the context
of the continuing dialogue between the Bank and the Government of Tunisia and
this project builds up on and continues to support many of these initiatives.
A financial sector study has been undertaken and will be discussed with the
Tunisian Government before June 1985. The study concludes that the Tunisian
financial sector, as regards the export sector, is basically efficient.
Hence, this high-priority project does not need to await further improvements
that may be recommendcd under this study. At the same time, the protection
framework encourages inefficiencies and production for the domestic market
rather than for exports. The Tunisian Government is aware of this situation
and has undertaken an in-depth study of the protection framework. The results
of this work have been recently reviewed with a Bank industrial sector mission
and this review is expected to initiate a dialogue with the Tunisian
authorities on how best to rationalise the protection system in the coming
years. At the same time, Tunisia's record of export growth in recent years,
and the priority accorded to exports in the current Five Year Plan, as well as
the availability of a substanttal pipeline ot viable export projects and the
need to further strengthen export institutions, argues in favor of a project
that will support the Government's efforts in th-s critical area at this time.
PART IV - rHE PROJLCT
Background
41.      The proposed project was identified li- October 1983 and prepared by
the Government with Bank assistance during '983/84. It was appraised in April
1984. Negotiations were held in Washington, ".C. from February 25 to
March 1. The Tunisian Delegation was .ed by the Director-General of Projects
in the Ministry of Planning and inciuier. representatives of the Banque de
D6veloppement Economique de Tunisie (BDET), Banque Tuniso-Koweitienne de
D6veloppement (BTKD), the Societe Tuniso-Seoudienne d'Investissement et de
ID6veloppement (STUSID), the Central Bank and the Ministries of Finance and
National Economy. The Staff Appraisal Report entitled Tunisia - Export
Industries Project (No. 5251-TUN dated March 20, 1985) is being distributed
separately to the Executive Directors. The main features of the loan and the
project are listed in the Loan and Project Summary at the beginning of this
Report and in Annex III. A map of Tunisia is attached.
Project Objectives and Content
42.      The objective of the proposed project is to assist the Government in
developing Tunisia's industries engaged in exports through a line of credit to
BDET, BTKD and STUSID. The project also provides for the improvement of the
institutional environment for exporters through the establishment of an Export
Promotion Fund and t'rough assistance to COTUNACE.



- 15 -
The Development Banks
43.      Three institutions will be financial intermediaries for the proposed
project:  BDET, BTKD and STUSID.  BDET is the country's leading development
bank. BTKD and STUSID were chosen as intermediaries under this project in
response to the Government's request. BTKD and STUSID have already given
priority to Export Industries projects in the past, and the proposed Bank loan
has led them to identify additional viable projects. BTKD and STUSID attach
great importance to a relation with the Bank because of the support it
provides on overall banking policies and practices, and more specifically, on
appropriate project appraisal/supervision methodology and standards. Detailed
descriptions and analyses of the organization, operations, financial position
and resource requirements of BDET, BTKD and STUSID are presented below.
A. Banque de Developpement Economigue de Tunisie (BDET)
44. BDET is well known to the Bank Group since its creation in 1959. The
Bank has provided altogether $129.2 million (net of cancellations) in eight
operations. IFC is a shareholder and has a representative on the Board. The
institution is well managed and has a competent staff.
45. Operations and Portfolio. BDET's approvals almost doubled between 1980
and 1982. In the 1980-1983 period, 73 percent of BDET's approvals were for
new projects; 88 percent of thes'e new projects were in the private sector.
Operations are well-distributed over the several sectors and regions of the
country. As of December 31, 1983, BDET's portfolio comprised loans for about
$202 million and equity participations for about $28 million. About seventy
percent of the loans went to industries, with agro-industries, construction
materials, EMI, textiles and chemicals being the most important sectors. As
of December 31, 1984 BDET's arrears over three months amounted to about $14.2
million equivalent, or about 6.1 percent of the outstanding loan portfolio
against 4.2 percent on Decemter 31, 1983.  Forty-six percent of the total
arrears (arrears over TnI 100,000) are concentrated in 22 companies, most of
which are public, the remainder being primarily in the tourism industry.
Forty-four percent of arrears is being pursued in court.  BDET has begun an
action program to address the arrears of these companies. The Bank will
closely monitor BDET's overall arrears position and quarterly reporting was
agreed to permit the Bank to stay abreast of future developments.
46. Financial Position. During the 1980-1984 period, assets increased by an
average rate of 21.3 percent per year, reflecting the general growth of
industrial investments in Tunisia. BDET's share capital was increased from TD
10 million to TD 20 million in 1982/83, partly by incorporating reserves.
BDET's debt-equity ratio of 5:1 on December 31, 1983 remains well below the
maximum 8:1 allowed under previous Loan Agreements. BDET expects to
consolidate its short-term debt in 1985 through a medium-term loan in the
international market (see para. 49). The 1980-84 period has witnessed a
decline in the profitability of BDET, as measured by return on net worth, due
to the high cost of foreign resources and the large capital increase during
this period.



- 16 -
47.      Organization and Staffing.  BDET employs 73 professional staff, 27 of
which are in project promotion and appraisal. While a large number of staff
are employed in administrative departments, it is expected that in a pending
reorganization many administrative staff will be shifted to operational
departments. BDET has been recruiting new professional staff to replenish its
ranks after losing staff to the new development banks and industrial
enterprises. Nevertheless, on the basis of its experience, the availability
of a large number of project files, knowledge of the economy and its technical
and financial know-how, BDET is able to process a relatively large number of
project applications quickly. Weaknesses, however, remain in project
supervision. To overcome these weaknesses, BDET has implemented in 1984 a
satisfactory supervision and reporting program with Bank assistance. During
negotiations, understandings have been reached to maintain satisfactory
supervision and reporting in the future, especially as regards arrears and
rescheduling.
48.      Projected Operations and Finance.  Based on its pipeline of
applications, BDET should be able to meet its target of about $60 million
lending per annum during 1985-1987. These projections are conservative and
reflect BDET's intention to scale down its exposure in tourism.  During this
period, interest income is projected to increase by about 11.0 percent on
average per year reflecting the increases in interest rates already effected
and planned for the next years. The average interest rate on outstanding loan
portfolio was 8.4 percent in 1981 and 8.9 percent in 1983; it is projected to
increase to 10.3 percent in 1986. Borrowing costs are expected to increase
less: the average cost of new borrowing is projected at about 9.5 percent
while the cost of existing debt will remain at about 8.5 percent.  The average
return on net worth over the last six years has been 10.7 percent, permitting
BDET payment of reasonail'c (8 percent) dividends, and the build-up of adequate
reserves and provisions, while permitting the phasing out of the Government
compensation by 1986. BDET is planning further increases in share capital
from TD 20 million inr 195 Lca TD 30 million by 1986. Long-term debt will
increase by about $ 90 million but the debt-equity ratio will remain at the
reasonable level of about 6:1, well below t-he maximum permitted ratio of 8:1
(Project Agreement, Section 4.04), and the debt service coverage ratio would
be satisfactory at around 1.1.
49.      Resource Requirements.  At the end of 1983, IBRD loans constituted
about 25 percent of total foreign currency borrowings and about 19 percent of
BDET's total resources. For the 1985-1987 period, resource requirements are
forecast at about $172 million of which about $103 million would be in foreign
currency. Part of these new borrowings would replace short-term debt. The
foreign currency requirements would be covered by borrowing in the
international market and from bilateral and multilateral sources. BDET's
local resource gap would be covered by internally generated cash, from a share
capital increase, net loan collections and access to the local market.



- 17 -
B. Banque Tuniso-Koweitienne de Developpement (BTKD)
50.      BTKD was created in 1981.  It aims to identify, promote and finance
economically and financially viable projects in all sectors of economic
activity in Tunisia and abroad, and to develop economic and financial
relations between Tunisia and Kuwait and other Arab and African countries.
Its share capital of TD 100 million (about $120 million at the present
exchange rate) is equally divided between the two countries. BTKD can take
*L        equity participations, make loans, give guarantees and provide all types of
banking services including the acceptance of deposits from abroad. However,
it cannot accept domestic deposits.
51.      Organization and Staffing.  BTKD has a 10-member Board of Directors.
A General Manager who is an experienced development banker is in charge of
operations. BTKD is organized in five departments: Promotion, Appraisal/
Follow-up, Equity Participation/Representation, Controllers/Treasury and
Administration. As of December 31, 1984, BTKD had a staff-of 74, 30 of whom
being professional staff. BTKD is well managed and its staff is competent.
52.      Operations.  BTKD generally finances projects with an investment cost
of at least about $1.2 million. As a general principle, it intends to invest
about 60 percent of its operations in industry, 20 percent in agriculture, 15
percent in tourism and 5 percent in other sectors. BTKD is particularly
interested in technologically-advanced projects. Its equity participations
are limited to 50 percent of BTKD's net worth. It cannot normally take more
than 15 percent of a firm's share capital, unless BTKD is the promoter of a
company and lead financier, in which case its participation can go up to 30
percent. Its maximum exposure in a single company is limited to 15 percent of
its own, npt worth. BTKD charges 12 percent per year for loans up to 11 years,
rising to 13 percent for loans with maximum durations of 15 years. These
rates are revised from time to time. The financial, technical and market
analysis under BTKD appraisals is of satisfactory quality; however, in the
first years, BTKD has relied on reports of other institutions for a
comprehensive assessment of thp  ennnmir returns.  Also, efforts with respeet
to supervision have been modest. To strengthen these, BTKD has prepared a
satisfactory plan and understandings have been reached as to satisfactory
procedures for future supervision and reporting.
53.      Portfolio.  As of December 31, 1983, BTKD had approved loan and
equity operations for 118 projects for a total amount of about $265 million,
of which about 18 percent is in equity participations. Commitments amounted
to about $141 million, while disbursements totalled about $70 million. BTKD
is making adequate provision for future portfolio losses.



- 18 -
54.      Financial Position.  BTKD's financial position is sound.
Seventy-five percent of its share capital has been paid in, and the remainder
is to be paid in during 1985. The company made a net profit of about i5.9
million in 1983 and about $8.0 million for 1984, which is considered
satisfactory. The return on average equity in 1983 and 1984 was 8 and 8.7
percent respectively. In accordance with BTKD's policy statement, a maximum
debt-equity ratio of 4;1 would be maintained (Project Agreement, Section
4.06). BTKD's financial policies as stipulated in its Policy Statement are
considered satisfactory.
55.      Projected Operations and Finance.  BTKD's loan and equity approval
level was about $60 million in 1984, and loan approvals will grow from 1985 by
about 10 percent per year. BTKD's equity investment will correspond to about
one fifth of total approvals. On this basis, commitments for the September
1984-1987 period are projected at about $244 million.
56.      Resource Requirements.  Overall, BTKD's resource requirements for
September 1984-1987 are about $291 million of which about $197 million in
foreign curreacy. Local currency resource requirements are expected to be
covered by cash generation, loan collections and share capital increases.
Foreign currency requirements are expected to be covered by share capital
increases from foreign partners and through recourse to the international
market.    The proposed subloan of $15 million equivalent would help cover a
relatively small part of the remaining foreign exchange needs.
C. Societe Tuniso-Seoudienne d'Investissement et de Dveloppement (STUSID)
57.      STUSID was created in 1981.  Its main objectives are to promote and
finance industrial, tourism, agricultural and other economically and
financially viable projects in Tunisia, and to mobilize capital abroad for
these projects. The company has a share capital of TD 100 million, equally
divided between the two countries. STUSID can take equity participations,
make loans, provide guarantees and give techn:cal assistance. STUSID charges
12 percent for loans up to 11 years and 13 percent for loans up to 15 years.
STUSID focuses on projects with a favorable impact on the balance of payments
and employment. It also focuses on large projects with investments over $2.4
million for industrial projects and over $3.6 million for other projects.
Equity participation in projects is considered important and in practice
STUSID provides its financial assistance in the form of equity and loans in
the ratio of 1:2. STUSID's financial and operational policies, as detailed in
its Policy Statement, are satisfactory. The company has put in place
satisfactory appraisal and supervision procedures and reporting methods that
emphasize financial, economic, and technical criteria. Understandings have
been reached during negotiations to maintain satisfactory future supervision
and reporting procedures.



- 19 -
58.      Organization and Staffing.  STUSID has a 10-member Board of
Directors. It is managed by an experienced and able Chief Executive Officer.
STUSID has seven departments: Planning/Follow-up, Industry, Tourism,
Agriculture/Agro-industry, Promotion, Administration and Finance. STUSID has
recruited about 45 professional staff since it started operations. STUSID is
well-managed and its staff is competent.
59.      Portfolio.  As of December 31, 1984, STUSID had approved 99 projects
for a total amount of about $190 million, of which about one-third is in
equity participations. Commitments amounted to about $110 million while
disbursements were about $74 million. A considerable number of projects are
joint-ventures where STUSID has attracted capital from Arab and other sources
and obtained technical or marketing experience for projects. About 63 percent
of STUSID's approvals were for the industrial sector. STUSID is making
adequate provisions for eventual portfolio losses.
60.      Financial Position.  STUSID's financial position is sound.  Seventy
percent of its capital is paid in, the remainder to be paid in over the next
two years. The company made profits of about $4.1 million in 1983 and about
$5.5 million for 1984. The return on average equity in 1983 and 1984 was 5.9
and 6.5 percent, respectively. In accordance with its policy statement, a
maximum debt-equity ratio of 4:1 would be maintained (Project Agreement,
Section 4.06). STUSID's financial policies are satisfactory.
61. Projected Operations and Finance. STUSID's loan approvals are projected
to grow gradually from about $25.5 million in 1984 to about $46 million in
1988. Equity participations are forecast to remain at about one-third of
total approvals. Commitments for the (September) 1984-1987 period are
projected at about $159 million. STUSID's projected income statements show
lower levels of profitability than BTKD, mainly due to STUSID's significant
equity participation portfolio on which returns are yet uncertain and
generally low in the early years. As agreed by its shareholders, STUSID would
not distribute dividends in the foreseeable future. The debt:equity ratio is
expected to be below 1:1 until 1987 and the debt service ratio is projected to
be satisfactory.
62.      Resource requirements.  STUSID's resource position for September
1984-1987 shows a requirement of about $163 million, $85 million of which is
in foreign exchange. Foreign currency requirements would be covered by share
capital increases from foreign partners and through recourse to the
international market. The proposed Bank subloan of $15.0 million would help
STUSID raise other resources in the international market. Local currency
requirements are expected to be covered by cash generation, loan collections
and share capital increases.



- 20 -
Implementation of the Project
63.      Onlending Arrangements.  Out of a $50.0 million equivalent loan, the
Government would onlend $20.0 million to BDET and $15.0 million each to BTKD
and STUSID, in Dinars, at the Bank's standard variable interest rate. The
Government would bear the foreign exchange risk (Loan Agreement, Section 3.02
and Schedule 4). The signing of satisfactory subsidiary loan agreements
between the Government and BDET, BTKD and STUSID would be a special condition
of effectiveness (Loan Agreement, Section 6.01). BDET, BTKD and STUSID would
repay their loans according to a composite amortization schedule of the
sub-loans financed by the subsidiary loans.
64.      Lending Targets for Export Proiects.  BDET expects to approve about
$15.0 million per year for export projects, while BTKD's pipeline of export
projects will require about $12.5 million per year, and STUSID's about $10.0
million. In terms of total projected approvals for export projects, the
proposed loan would cover about 40 percent of BDET's and BTKD's and about 50
percent of STUSID's requirements.
65.      Eligibility Criteria for Export Projects and Terms of Sub-loans.  The
proposed loan would finance the foreign currency cost of goods, works and
services for eligible export-oriented sub-projects. The definition of
export-oriented sub-projects would include (i) new enterprises that would
export at least 30 percent of their production and (ii) balancing,
modernization and/or expansion of existing enterprises that would export at
least 50 percent of their incremental production. To ensure overall positive
contribution to the balance of payments of the country and optimal use of
domestic resources, eligible sub-projects are expected to recover their
foreign exchange cost through net foreign exchange earnings within a five-year
period commencing six months after completion of the investments. Besides
these specific requirements, the projects would meet regular Bank sub-project
criteria of being technically sound, and financially and economically viable,
i.e. meeting the test of a minimum 12 percent FRR and a minimum 10 percent
ERR.  The maximum term of a sub-loan would be 14 years including a maximum of
3 years of grace (Project Agreement, Schedule 1). Sub-loans would be made
against an effective interest rate of at least 11 percent per annum which
would ensure the development banks initially a spread of about 2 percent and,
taking into account projected inflation in Tunisia (9 percent p.a. through the
projecting implementation period), represents a positive interest rate in real
terms.  Sub-loan commitments would be completed by June 30, 1988 (Project
Agreement, Section 2.03(c)). The Loan Closing Date would be June 30, 1991
(Loan Agreement, Section 2.03).
66.      BDET's maximum exposure in a single enterprise will, according to its
policy statement, remain at 2.5 percent of BDET's consolidated capital and
surplus; this exposure limit will be fixed at 15 percent for BTKD and STUSID
in accordance with their policy statements (Project Agreement, Sections 4.05
and 4.07). The Bank will, however, be informed of all projects in which
BTKD's and STUSID's exposure will exceed 10X. To ensure that the proceeds of



- 21 -
the proposed loan will be used for a large number of projects, these proceeds
will be limited to a maximum of $1.5 million per individual sub-loan made by
BTKD and STUSID and $2 million for BDET (Project Agreement, Schedule 1). No
free limit would be granted for projects submitted by STUSID and BTKD to allow
the Bank to review all of the sub-projects financed by them in their first
Bank operation. For BDET-financed projects, a free limit of $750,000 would
apply (Loan Agreement, Section 1.02 (g)). It is expected that about 60
percent of the amount and 40 percent of the number of sub-loans to be financed
by BDET would be for projects above the free limit. To ensure that
sub-projects do not depend on excessive domestic protection for their
profitability, each sub-project appraisal report is required to describe the
relevant protection environment and the projected profitability of the
project's domestic sales by comparison with export sales (Project Agreement,
Schedule 2).
67.      Procurement and Disbursement under Sub-loans.  Procurement for the
loan will follow the normal procedures used in development finance projects
and the main responsibility for supervising the sub-borrowers' procurement
will rest with BDET, BTKD and STUSID, respectively. The procurement
procedures of these three institutions have been reviewed during appraisal and
have been found satisfactory. They require, in particular, sub-borrowers to
obtain at least three price quotations from suppliers/manufacturers (Project
Agreement, Section 2.04). The Bank loan would be disbursed against the
foreign currency cost for goods, works and services (Loan Agreement, Section
2.02). Disbursements would be made on the basis of standard documentation as
described in the Bank's disbursement procedures, except for expenditures below
$20,000 which would be made against statements of expenditure.
68. Audits. BDET, BTKD and STUSID shall have their annual accounts audited
by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, and furnish audit reports to
the Bank within six months after the end of each fiscal year (Project
Agreement, Section 4.02).
69.  Technical Assistance to COTITNAC..  The lack of an export credit insurance
scheme has often dissuaded commercial lenders from providing credit facilities
for exporters. COTUNACE would, by providing export credit insurance, provide
additional security to banks in case of unforeseen events such as the default
of the foreign buyer. A law creating COTUNACE was approved by Parliament in
June 1984, and the institution is expected to be operational in mid-1985. A
competent and dynamic official of BCT has been appointed as COTUNACE's
president. During the appraisal of the proposed project, the Bank assisted
the Government in preparing a development strategy and in identifying an
assistance package of experts, training and equipment for COTUNACE. The
Government is securing bilateral cofinancing and UNDP financing has been
requested. If full financing (for about $0.15 million) would not be available
by December 31, 1985, the Government would finance the technical assistance
program itself or through other aid sources (Loan Agreement, Section
5.01(g)). The Government has undertaken to regularly review with the Bank the
progress of the implementation of the technical assistance program (Loan
Agreement, Section 3.05).
70.  Export Promotion Fund.  A fund for the financing of marketing and
promotion studies and related expenses has been established in December 1984
to assist entrepreneurs interested in exports, especially new entrants into



- 22 -
this market, in obtaining foreign exchange resources for such services. It is
to be financed mainly through a levy on imports. The fund would provide
foreign currency, through loans or grants, to enterprises that would promote
or market new products or attempt to enter new markets, e.g. by contracting
marketing studies or participation in trade fairs. The fund would be
administered by the Centre de Promotion des Exportations (CEPEX) under the
supervision of the Ministry of National Economy. During negotiations, the
Government has agreed to take, by December 31, 1985, all necessary action to
provide the fund with the necessary resources and to operate and administer it
in a way satisfactory to the Bank (Loan Agreement, Section 3.04). The
Government would regularly review the fund's operation with the Bank (Loan
Agreement, Section 3.05).
Project Benefits and Risks
71.      The principal benefits of the project will be increased export
earnings and job availability for Tunisia's rapidly growing labor force. The
sub-projects to be financed by the loan are expected to generate exports worth
about $100 million per annum, and create about 10,000 jobs. Tunisia's export
drive will be aided by the creation of COTUNACE, the export promotion fund,
and also by the simplification of administrative procedures made in the
context of the preparation of this proposed loan. The Bank cooperation with
the three development banks in sub-project appraisal and supervision will
provide sound institutional growth for these institutions, and increase their
Eocus on export oriented projects.
72.      The major risk of the proposed project is that a shortfall can occur
in the expected increase in exports. The past impressive growth of Tunisian
exports of industrial products, and the priority accorded by the Government to
this sector are reassuring in this respect; also, the Bank will need to devote
sufficient resources to the supervision of this project to minimize the risk
that the funds under this project are used without a commensurate increase in
exports. On balance, these risks are acceptable and well worth taking in
relation to potential benefits.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
73.      The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Tunisia and the
Bank, the draft Project Agreement between the Bank and BDET, BTKD and STUSID,
respectively and the Report of the Committee provided in Article III, Section
4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed separately to the
Executive Directors.  Special conditions of the project are listed in Section
III of Annex III.  Signing of satisfactory subsidiary loan agreements between
the Government and BDET, BTKD arid STUSID, respectively, would be a special
condition of effectiveness (draft Loan Agreement, Section 6.0i'.



- 23 -
74.      I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comely with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
75.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
April 2, 1985
Washington, D.C.



- 24 -                                                   ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 6
T A  11 L | 3
gTllikV                -_ IOCTAL IMIRR MIN DATARTR A                   LT
MOST               (HOST RENT ESTMATE) /
lUtSII $70t1  RECENT  MIDDLE INCEM  MIDDLE   cm
low&t!!   1970&      ssT=MAUt    N. AFRICA A MID EAST    LAT. AMRICA   CAR
AUA CtDI1AIUND JR.  )
TOTAL                              163.6      163.6        163.6
AORICULTURtAL                      6586        70.3         72.2
11  MUR CAPI  (US$)                  210.0       340.0       1390.0            1149.6                 210B.6
EPM COIISa0 CPTA
(KILDORAN8 Or OIL EQUIVALENT)      119.0      230.0        497.0             622.1                  995.5
mOiu ac AND V*TAL uAnunuT
POPULATION,NID-YRAR (THOUSANDS)    4221.0    5127.0       8683.n
URBAN POPULATION (S Or TOTAL)      36.0        43.5         53.6              43.2                   66.5
POPULATtON PROdECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2no0 (HILL)                            20.0
STATIONMRY POPULATION (MILL)                              I3.3
POPULATION NMOENTUM                                        l.8
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. ON.                       25.8       31.3         39.9              36.3                   35.7
PCR Sq. Kl. AGRI. LAND            61.4       72.9         90.3             661.7                   92.4
POPULATIONt ACE STRUCTURE (2)
0-14 YRS                         43.4       46.2         39.9              43.6                   39.9
15-64 YRE                        52.5        50.0        56.2              53.                     56.0
65 AND ABOVE                      4.2         3.6          3.8               3.3                    4.1
PHPIILATION GROWTH MA  (Z
TOTAL                              1.8 /.     1.9L/        2.21I             2.8                    2.4
URBA                               3.2        3.8          3.9               4.5                    3.6
CRUDE BIRTH RATC. (PER THOUS)      46.6        39.4         33.9             40.4                    31.3
CRUDE DEATH Rr.E (PER THOUS)        19.1       14.3         9.2               11.5                    6.1
GROSS REPRn-JCT1ON RATE             3.5         3.2         2. 1              2.8                     2.0
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPrOS. AisUAL (THOUS)            ..       29.2        180.9 /d
USERS tS OF  IlED    EN)           ..          ..         41.0 i            22.2                   40.3
FOOD AND MTRI.TIDO
[NODE OF FOOD PROD. PER CAITA
(2969-71-100)                      97.0        96.0       128.0              97.3                   114.3
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (2 OF REQUIREHENT5)      83.0       88.0        116.0             110.8                  110.6
PROTEINS (CRAMS PER DAY)          52.0       57.0         74.0             70.1                    67.3
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       13.0       14.0         23.0 if           17.3                   34.1
CILD (AGES 1-4) DEATH RATE         36.1        20.0         6.0              14.6                    5.7
LrFE EXPECT. AT BIRTH (YEARS)      48.1        53.0        61.1              57.5                    64.7
INFANT NUT. RATE (PER THOUlS)      25S.9      121.0        65.0             101.5                   60.6
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (%POP)
TOrAL                                        49.0         70 0 Ig           59.7                   65.4
URBAN                              ..          ..        91.0              84.5                    78.1
RURAL                              ..          ..         46t.0            38.4                    46.2
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
(2 OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..        62.0           ..               ..                    52.9
URBAN                              ..       100.0        42.0                ..                    67.0
RURAL                              *         34.0          ..                ..                    24.5
POPULATION PER PHYSICIM          10030.0     5930.0      3690.0            4345.1                  1917.7
POP. PER NURSIC PERSON              ..       730.0       890.0             1831.1                  615.8
PoP. PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            410.0      410.0        460.0 Id          632.9                  367.2
uRBAN                            230.0 /h   310.0       350.0 7!           545.5                  411.5
RUtAL                           1040.0 7    1270.0      1230.0 T          2513.5                 2636.3
ADMISSIONS PeR HOSPITAL RED          ..        24.1        25.0 It           26.2                    27.3
SIII
AVERACE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               .           I          5.51k
URBtAN                             .          5.1         55s-
RURAL                              '.         51 f        5.67.
AVERACE NO. OF PERSONS/ROOM
TOTAL                                         3.2 i        3.1 /k
URSAN                              ..         2.7 7       L6                 .
RURtAL                             ..         3.6 f       3.87 
ACCESS TO ELECT. (1 OF DWELLINCS)
TOTAL                              *-        24.0 f      34.2k             46.2
URBAN                              ..          ..        68.2 N            77.7
RURAL                              ..          ..         6.07?             16.1



ANNEX I
-25-                                                   Page 2 of 6
T-A-= 3               .I
s                (~~NMEOS          xyzaams) rb
1960&     1970&  Y I TRl          V. A1RICAL 5 fl U31     1T. AN6ICA  Ca
ADJUSITD ENOIZUMUT RASTOS
PR>UYt  7 OTAL                    66.0       101.0       10.0 1.3                                105.4
HALI                    fl.0      121.0        L19.0             101.5                  101.3
PIALE                   43.0       10.0         92.0              73.6                  104.5
SCIONDARUs TOL                     M.0        20          30.0              43.0                   43.2
NALS                    19.0       330          37.0              32.3                   42.3
110Arh                   3.0       13.0         23.0              33.0                   44.35
VOCATIONAL ( OF SECONIDAY)          23.5        11.1        25.2               10.3                  33.6
PUPPIL-TZAC1UTIO
PIOUAY                            61.0        47.0        31.0              30.3                   30.1
SECONDARY                         16.0        28.0        21.0              23.1                   16.8
ADULT LrTIACY RAT!E (t)             13.5        24.0        6 t2.0 id         43.3                   79.5
PASSENGER CARS/UOUAND POP           10.5        13.0        18.3 /            17.6                   46.0
DIO mzCRIV318/THOUSAND POP          40.3        75.7       157.0             136.6                  225.6
TV RZCZIVZRS/TWOUSAID POP            0.1        14.0        47.1              46.1                  107.2
NWJSPAM  ("DUL   KIEUL
ITESTI) CIRCULATION
P*& TUOUSAJD POPULATION           18.6        1.9         43.6 id           31.2                   63.5
CDDIA ANNUAL ATZRDAMCZCPITA          1.6          ,,1.3 I.                     1.7                    2.6
TOTL UOR FRCE (2W10)              1138.0      1215.0      1731.                  . 
FOULZ (PIIT)                       6.0         7.7         8.5              10.                    23.2
AGRICULUR  (PECINT)               56.0        50.0        35.0              42.4                   31.5
r  USUTy CpZRCNT)                 18.0        21.0        32.o              27.9                   2M
PARTICIPATION RATE (lUCI!T)
TOTAL                             27.0        23.7        26.2              22                     32.2
ALUZ                              50.2        44.2        47.3              46.4                   49.3
FV1KALZ                            3.3         3.6         4.3               5.a                   15.2
ECONIOMIC DU UNDINC  RATO            1.8         2.1         1.7               1.8                    1.4
PRCERIN OF PRIVATZ IICQUS
REEIVEID BY
HICUEST 55 OF HOUSgEOLDS            ..          ..        17.0 h
lSCIZST 201 OF IOUSIILD8            ..          ..        42.0                ..
LOWEST 201 OF 80WZDLD8              ..          ..         6.0                .
LOWEST 40S Of BSOUSIE               ..          ..        15.0
IPO9!A TANGS-
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVE INCOME011
LEEL (USS PER CAPITA)
-=30                                ..         ..       204.0 jf           274.8                  23.2
RUBL                                ..         ..         97.0 f           177.2                  184.0
ESYTUATD IlIATIVE POVEMtY ICQSI
LEVL (USS PER CAPITL)
D"                                  ..         ..        193.0 A           402.6                  322.8
RURAL                               ..         ..        193.0 f           284.9                  372.4
ESTIMATE  PO0. 11LD0 ABSOLuTE
POVERTY INCIME LVL (X)
URAN                                ..         ..         20.0 Af
RURAL                               ..         ..         15.0 if
NOT AVAILABL
NOT APPLICALE
N0 T Z S
Ja  Mm goup average for ach Indicator are populatlon-waihted aritlmetic -me. Caera  of Countries own the
indicators depnda on availability of data and lo not niform.
/b  Unless otherdec noted. 'Data for 1960" refer to ay Yar beeen 1959 and 1961; "Data for 1970" betwmn  1969 sod
1971; and data for "Het Vacant  acluata- betwen  1980 and 198.
Ie  Due to eiration populatitn growth rata to lower thab rate of natural Increase;  /a 1979  /a 1983; If 1977:
La Access to piped water oly;  A  1962; /I 1976;   If 196; A  1975.
Jm , 1i"



-26-                                                                           ANNEX 1
-~~~ -~~~~ ~Page 3 of 6
MeCaw   U         baCt W. dimew limb seemsw sacefit jete  am  a.N! ammbcisettsoa  ntaqbl. ta sina  slam b. sss aba Ibe o est as I. issasatwat
imasttasudm m  mRhs. . Ises  Ins., ad aIm.aasmnet. ON           aletod   itlasnMala barnes  1se. MWI    I   l.T     os40             e-         1-olt
aba   ssytarap "dpa sm  a    madeg     salo 'ada W Ursaw   atm * lbiii    siatlestm tua   sta    erisis   aaa   iasst   stcl
"a isftami. is Sb (IIseifta any "ices, ab psarqr isb paulWN" did aI sia~ttat m IvaB woafl Iles biS s.mta alpn a etoo eolota smart . t..
gsmpa   cc  Ia stao taiaar terae Ime a        ruim   art aPeasi        b   snesdp".-l   asatats  1se   d.assis.  atp   a 
eaaeaPsd asmistsasaaasl  ao     sie,  soulW Mlaas ser-s  am-  asi                l ata smuedaa  sales, if as6811.1 tMSltas.  as.  st. oa sjo     Wlb  main sot
U,                                                               e~~badaofM    aaert   Mfr    ho,arn w   i   mji   q %damrn   w goee ssai C Itesssnlie teat.,  M
a    !ot is..                                                                   r%nLnsaa  P 1    Z           - qI.Slile  d1.4asda hat  Wbor if pnsiaalsa
sfl.FCteetaul-ie  .- .. isePsp.ae41t a. per,-sslu                                                        rf            aetd.            
sP oaam  st..                                                                   Pedtep,tyqia   1.)cu    a  cy      aiile Naies.
NU     . usia". s.iemeas  ... C.ss  se petas.                         easitahi  Is pObhp ea  pecan. Mumatas  .tpssicil.sad bapt.act l
ab2i!sd Pt'Io5  antiesasoocllo  a "WUi Sool Atamles15ps bmatal                            eatsbltteasaL  asa"sa. tasp4lcta cm asmeblitass. psaussasty emotled
ionl. iose. al lasie,                                                                    tea b    tassa -  physasias. tasticteabts       5,555  porasesslt, sbaisad
assaIL  dSpstt M onp t        Afl* sated". apes al   ellacalt 51 esetesis                  atalt essasa ass P.-sssIV sas1d Iv a ptpatatss (ta oW . ate)M
pete.ysncaiset a  idate, p5ts      0e'ae   gas a  kd . taese,lie,                            "Mn. steals. sac.) -sia etrot asslaas  aresesrnes
a   sabrn  esteiey)ii n a'talastm e1' set o"eqassso  "We sashes t.                peasid. C WaitleS neap of odmeI Isattielas
lope      miec                                                                           p~laa~5s96.             - 15c matic  lsstsis.   a t - ilebseem
-ank) - dw  f J%IF 91                                OmedhdlesanaajtepRole.-  aaama                   anes
cm           -nftoas- papalassaast   sIad eas as5 Varaes'eIewc.M?er!es1  sasaem
case-o    -S -       ssa           -vi otec esessi-i 4 kis ,o le a..                  odestkisas l.ernaeasai.  bAtltq-  oda, -v  s-pseassasa sasseds as
ea,._eC         ts  aaLmfeasstt  essas sintlam SMci chumL                             aessasatooelod tpapas.   t   Bfoaf
p-ICs  lb pnman l:eed ismaitc    m  ilas lam i.tum  ceosl                            ci cees-It, c. aalo etsisiCHII ealtas dess-tale.        C
stnMw   peaaas  la t aiey             ga cies sasts      . tro    Omd aP.".. ce
als:CaeaedsItag.s    ts sate Msa-    asmoa- apl, otll rmrscs                                        - -         r   a W    e  te.  tacit sal  ad la
mapa    l~   W at. a   i-1 lit Cpaciad. a tcis aes.stastl . licipia                                ssaastealri-sfssa  1  aul
t=sdacsnsl. W.        55toC   ace ti paitlala.  abr hit " s  tif L am1.              ofamesk ti    . tjlnme  at dtlfaiaas iicta- l Co sln  esslii  s
a eqeam  m  dmtus   b   acts                  a slip wincepu. I-iS  m                   et.sl  sals   daetnceare   s                        si   a
blass.a  cawate C  Mola d.eie  aot I1snltfsafg  is rpsisses  lm=.                    etmeatas tautsa   ..  iepeta  sesdnwycsiet
Mjjf. 9L-  I    -b to555 -lie  pa.      ats  rs   e -im                            stats.  aatit.sa, sis). -rIseibP cam.ta  tat tail   Pea-
c.as.csmc   sCs.aall.lid.asm 11cr boa-patisaumisd tbnai                                 n      aate.5  t  Cs           .1 a;  eaertaCeemo set.. is
st.   CA piplela  IsM tSb pee  Kg-M.    s  s. a1o Callms. C cUe                 .esassul .se.inc O    Mlaeas. "Nre..r  - filo.c.siWw- l.aiiitiati
Nottlana iccaiciP   apitee ftis se lb  iuatepoImlbfe s. utis                           a5.tss.    Dts.l"i  e abtp i                      s Ait -, crai    .
An" ia.sr5e to      erli. r   isa1' lsal  o   "nI.t _ Csl.a.t Popleob 5r..s .                            V .sa.i.asi      isppers-aedsP aesli. , sci.a'l..-
s    -e U e s   dais f.                                                       l%Pli.te.atalo  "M   lCoBoe p r-.I - e1es . 4i  iijp  - t,asa ,c-.pea   4ltI
frfnjjafr  i                                                                           recasts -L-.-s.S         Ir P as.  ls.a. Is e.r-5-_%t  L 
-.  .-  C to "id Pei   Paitl.  pti  1-qa  ti msst -i P5t..    e  I. .5                tiesiea   Issue,w
-1i   t ma.7aM W1ad1 sat   .i.        1StIeaa- is s-sis     istl-ataItu   a  sdAe ii-I
Pi  a   .su..ss.rI  --1. tasts  -  b.  e aseaaps  eu-tp-asisal-  satt,Pa- paait..edIFsivi   c
ts.isste    Madtres.e Iettsa I -t.                                                   Coines t- th.pc cnn).U .....sttag.age III-                  1
papsafla   its, am ,da it.w               F,.11-- die,d                          tin       ve     .I      1 Valilee"sslb aeaaaclleb   flsim    ieal  
esitac  aesas Mae  srua     i -W   " at   geato .stes at tact, Sdw_ett-ss   seine.,
ri-setet    a  aE-4ti. 1.55es.  a  ca"t11-n1.                                ts    itsalauIessasshls     a  tcss ii af5ttslc tat tlt
um al be(s   Ciaei-) - peal ttta bw psi tola .1  cib-                           an.meis Llse   es  a  seaae  a an maAX             flesati.a time
Baepaaeateg ked,06 till, a  *na a   .                                             okeateui    smaimemace1 tciaetlsa  -w M Vao      rsa opoesats  9g as
9s11 batq   s  hss -W aseI dasem  pa,tk cP.1 96aNn-yae  MdIt                                 t L.a   (1air 4taas ssaaIagtesi   -Ptb.PRat" L
papalasiesa Ltd5 tt   0*3 damS.                             utusi pactis pa lt cma  asesaiseam   siaraImis
-  ns&                 idaatsaes             f  mra                      s  msi"'si pseaasicaldssiI oaswa me ts slest.wo
LIT=    pRlqj     _Vtli c- e A  is-   a - asesialftef  a  ga-Lailasee  P1 imasi Psa, cdls toet saewa  sasstCoeso   v"t -                          A.eV   easia
lefflsptess  esi  t-aeaeaa~i  O.It,etteeats _ .L,p asaea_tsas  naiac   at.         ail
biedraa..cpa&  MaInF iC-jew sassiasas  saaai  a!   asss                            Ctsaseil sssases -  eaf s as.dee- oaeaS as ett-               . saslap l S
isue.                                                                                  ilstis."mid daetad Sit. ee. -.csa -    abim  5l dr1s. A.tlassmam
-  slitlitstaseai                  ielt    - dues aesitPlaeauada                                                             f    as
peolmoe,                                                         zM~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AMhca Poist  a.tltaslme  s  sriictes'ries   . 551   t
-      IS                                                                           saaabalta,tel             n:das
CTsdcm    .la "as-Ima-semlpraple!m""n.*bet   i.  as       esiimi  ta   ai  aa
i11,s1asa lase S0 sagtit)  t   s   ii  ooo     f I- si.ts aneisses_.   (a;                rn    m t    sltle    saitd    mstsl   sislatsmada as
ape  aSes sa eacied.  aats sudecia  i ssttassl  iseisleuip*  etc 5  jm  peties  i  sae)isb  bes:iti. Oi
i.e.   .ciiils aapiisegrade  stasc psiitas   gLode.iao                    tos-saWa    aas,..aW-Vi as. llC-O-e pceietled    ss
assess  a  eedmea aW m       R. us sasata s-Asi astes  eaa e asac.                   [""ss"v (eCa-ta  amueti Toi ii  asa. C-CaCtisa leestsema. 
ma"ete ta  ascat CM    P55 bad 49as. Puaseitesatt  mci ear aeBaT .w,d- PCti .el iaicew     aide I 555) seatl  staple
bastl c   -is bld moasidetigW  lt ae etaaaii  g 1nysesecr . tsp  l a 4sTati            d                    sea(sil  as"-o.
me 55-  diualbstas.1 paacatis. S stesLa ii peascid 1t sti.
at -aswd-eta   masi  _ir s a  goes Eats.                                        aa -ns ttr,ascya         "    -    -."PLtoCTA    MMp"P
daste  sai -L.1. sesslis ousearn  -eoi -    -  rrse. sapsrs at-  apiis               fr           .-0 E 9[1ss eve Tseas(mas iso stat    PCSIa -Lr' paicts m pM"
tag_ sappatlspr s.usssi                  ldt   elaa ea.S-                               css eaaa   is psaasi pWes  2 palPletam. sa psns  A pas.-Ia B
osteesC   l ameetd anL.Sat-astsemat  ps.sori* is. atsieeMP Pellopa.e  r f                              t
ails  at a     6r    i  ekpael par is,,is  Usr Sw -aLe  is.mm mut    ..  r ow_-t    sode 
agiesi  a  in.0 ft a 9 isptL.j n avd at sas           pesa     a -  -ip               1IM~iS easas  pssi   sae                               a-a   et,a
S   seip Mesa    erea C,        eta ard ftalpe  he  or it s PIc                               saascadstt  sdeste               is
USbA    admlmttsr.at  a  asOB Ls.                                                           chasiasdeast. tsssp  a-i 555                           ptspy4-tlqor
ass,o lsfod.                                                                             la.dae-AUbl e. aad. 
Otid(si  i-i bas tam (ee  tass)- "  s      meR. UC Yellow pa sesd c1S,eqrsqlut   sseeplea oa   tIasICIG   C5~rja  -1 Be-sall i raise VW
meLetotws i-4    M is   a eaturea, M. s  1sca         h, rrmaWfa-sA issess             tak isssspa.s   ia  leaset ab, CMild  tais.pr ts
-edssma   V-s an aesW l   tiCs1-0    W cat d ice.ai      eas                           aa       a    taasm              b    eiC   csdk           bms
d.0-d Cm oamto oar FLL-   a.  ma-41. II$ -d LT"                 cteal eastysssn offent dagma.  was at. -i1eg 55 sitescsvaf.L.
..I-thata d11.  innU1.sobeat sarw at pss abo     ails dm.stPle                rngogl - ~ Isess  ao scatiaorb lea  etc  dmen       s-d TM nsl
tales  a Sr  55  me shaeaci - MesA EaseS. sI leftat am                                     Saighr of CTties s.ikr oan
ZNt   a;i.151555..I               MMI ;r552rf .1ot Cae"  :CCMass  slt   . Sg   iti
meissasseaS  acit     ftm  -    law lpasama  mbaassas.w srriI5s. a                                                       Ma       amt -l -oet"
'etapcei , mt. pa Ms  at glut Pewasslas papaistoa. p Iap as                                                                       oC  o
tesun5ptt  basestA. a  lspa om    isit d  -mo    as"oltsat  A.3 Bnie
la   aha   m lP" c'oasetdsia  bu   tsete" esai  sas   el- sb0
hasw.  Is. PasS  ,    .   . ssaaaca I1 aims a .d ip a"I  dab orastl e
Mo-J4ti -           c     -I.--
memu      %.atetdss   Copatla  saaettt,Moo    aSest5    ualmu, tmells
a sases alat dacet.M ePdit ccse Ins." d9at" has, males
a   neaab  atus  sy-P.          earn a- slad afeMd si IiattplisiWs 
patllrter isaWsslhMstaAsP.elataw



ANNEX I
-27 -                                                  Page 4 of 6
nur - IcNac DIO
IbwLmticku 6.7 miUion (mid-1U)
GN pr Capita: S1.390 1962)
bmul acn RK
tillhs ISG             Feusl         Pt" FL                lxclbd
T    -IMA             at caE ct pma)
19O3         1979    N6    1l61   1962   1913      19l    1985    1966   1991
NlMT1L A-LW
GCr  dmic. prcet /1             B,U1.4       7.2    6.0    5.2    0.3    4.5       5.5    4.2     3.5    3.5
Ai4rtula                        995.9     -4.8    6.1    9.8   -9.9    0.5       9.0    2.0    2.5    2.5
IiAutsy                       2,496.9     16.3    5.8    3.7    L.0   6.9        4.2    3.2     3.2    3.3
Sawica.                       3,533.0      8.7    3.9    8.1    2.6    3.9       5.5    3.9    3.9    3.9
C2mtiMa                         6,437.0      4.6    9.9    6.7    3.4    5.9      6.7    4.1     3.7    3.5
Gvn . iin'._t                   2.396.1      3.9    5.8   20.3    0.0  -7.0       0.7  -1.9   -0.3    2.9
bpofts of aaode od IWS          2,855.5     23.3    0.7    3.5   -7.2    4.2       2.3    5.7    5.0    38
Zupa  of VDa aNd WS             3,574.2     14.3    7.2   15.7   -1.0  -1.2       1.3    1.8    2.9    3.5
tka ntimil P1pute              6,219.5      7.5    6.5    5.5    0.7    3.7       5.6    4.0     3.3    3.5
Gmi mtimal mwa                  1,782.5     21.8  -7.2    1.8  -6.5  -4.2          5.0    1.9    1.1    4.0
FM-
daflowr                                   .3  1010.0  IIL.5  139.2  140.5
--   cam                                     246   2.47   2.03   1.69   1.47       1.26
Sum of GOP a    ilm  prim (t)                      hmrW  ha   lncmm (2)
(at npt eri) 21                              (at gm       ricm)
l       197K    ISS1      153      i.      11   U71-76         V70a1         615514 1i-91
grow dmtc  r t /1  1OO.0         0O0.0    100.0   100.0   100.0   1D.0    6.8             6.1           3.9          4.0
Ui4ritA              18.8      8.1     13.8     12.3     12.4    11.6    8.2           0.9          L7           i5
7imutry              20.6    25.9    32.2    3D.8    31.8    32.7    10.2             J.6           4.0          4.6
sa.                  47.7    42.9    41.4    43.S    42.1    419          8.3          6.7          4.1          3.9
_oam -                  O82.0    76.8    76.0     7.3    82.0        1.9    9.6          7.0           5.0          3.9
am  i_v..t              20.0    30.4    3L5        29.5     25.6    21.9    14.1          8.6          -1.9          0.8
10ir ofimm  a WIS   23.8    29.1    41.6    35.2    37.4    40.6              5.6        14.1           3.1          5.8
1hqM of pa& ad M    25.8    37.1          50.2     4.0    45.0    44.        13.1        1L4            1.4          3.8
Orwa  tiomL produc      99.6    98.7    100.9   101.2   100.1    100.3    8.5             6.6           3.9          4.0
1th fm    in            -0.4    -1.3       0.9      1.2      0.1      0.3     -            -            -             -
Gm" mdtianal aviqu       17.6    2L1      24.9    21.9    17.9    19.5    2.9             5.7          -1.2          6.1
Aa 2 of oEl
(at agra  p
V976    L9B1     19t      196l3
minzc ~ ~       ~        ~       ~       i
24.2    30.0    32.6    34.5
ozinZ CQditue                                      18.5    22.4    24.9    27.6
&UplIa C.) or dafiit (-)                            5.7      7.5      7.6      6.9
Capital  cqdit                                     11.4      9.2      9.8     10.4
Fomigo fiauiag                                      1.0      2.6      3.7      1.4
....  ......... .  .   .
1971-76      197641       196I-%6       1-g91
GW  odCth  rate ()                                 8.4           6.5          8.3          4.0
GW per capita gauth rate                           5.4           3.1          1.1          1.4
I                                                  L7           4.7           8.2          5.9
h       *g - srA     rat.                         24.0          15.7         -0.1          0.3
liwtt elticity                                     1.5          L9            0.4          0.9
/1  DP at miat  prim aid cmianwits at ftartr coat.
/Z Pro.acto yaw  in cawt  pric.
Vdnuary 1965



-28 -                                           ANNEX I
Page 5 of 6
7MIA - OML T1M
Popiuation: 6.7 miLlion (mid-1982)
Qw per Capita: S1.390 (1962)
AhtM                                              (at 1910 Prim)
(millim  Ifi                        AcOal                      PrL           Ricud                                  :
at c uwr    prie)
IA dicator                   1963             1979   M193    16    19       1913          196     I!4 5   1986   1991
VL4R 1PAE
m.hl aiim aqorsu              1,895.8           20.7    0.8    4.5   -9.6    9.5             1.2    5.6    5.0    3.4
Cewl oil                     787.5            U.4    0.2   -67   24.0    5.8             -2.2   -3.6   -6.8  -11.2
Other primuy                  93.6            25.1  -11.9   -5.1  -25.6    9.6             8.8   12.0    4.3    2.9
1miufw                      1,014.7           33.0    3.6   17.8   11.9   12.2             0.2   10.7   11.2    8.3
Ha udiae iqpmsa              3,214.2            15.7    7.7   14.6   -4.0    1.3             L6    2.3    2.8    3.7
Fted                         389.5            39.6   -6.8   28.1   -6.8   22.7           -0.2    4.1    3.6    2.3
Ftzrolun                     436.3             9.7   13.5    4.4  -52.1   25.5          -15.7   13.1    7.9    7.1
1ehizuy a4d aqutipmit        852.3            -2.6   -4.4   40.9   15.9  -11.4            -1.0   -2.2   -1.8    2.5
Other                       1,536.2           24.9   15.3    4.8    7.7   -1.0             9.5    2.4    3.5    3.5
_                 I!~~~~~riee 
ere  pice index                               75.5  100.0  117.4   87.9   77.3            82.1   89.7   94.9  147.9
rapoct prie  ind-                             85.3  100.0  114A4   85.3   79.6           82.1   90.6   96.3  142.6
Tam  of tride inde                            88.5  100.0  102.6  103.0   97.1           10.0   9.0   98.6  13.7
Cmuoaitimi of Me.hrdie Trtm  (2)                         A1mp Ahmm IgElume CZ)
(at c curlutce,)                                  (at eri    pn)
1971.  1976   1981   1962   1966   1991                    -       A97G6-1  1981-86   1986-91
Epot                             100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  1000  1000                       4.1       8.6       3.9        0.5
Cruie oil                     24.5   40.9   51.5   40.3   28.3   21.5                     4.6        5.8      -5.3       0.03
Other jFrissy                 19.2   13.4    5.0    4.0    6.7    5.5                    -5.4      -1.9        8.5       2.8
Mmfacttz!s                    56.3   45.7   43.5   55.7   65.0   73.3                     6.4       14.1      10.9       8.5
li                               D100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0                  13.1      11.5       1.0       3.8
Food                          21.2   12.3   11.2    9.8   12.7   12.1                     0.6       11.9       5.2       3.1
prtiOam                        3.9   11.1   19.0   12.1   11.9   16.7                    29.2       10.9     -5.7        7.8
Madtiney aid Equipmnt         30.1   31.9   25.2   30.3  Z2.7   L9.9                     13.5       8.7      -2.8        1.1
OdW                           44.8   44.7   44.6   47.8   52.7   52.1                    10.6       13.5       4.3       4.7
91hA of Trade wirh        are of Trade with            sart of frale Wich         are of Trade wLth
laduatrial Colmtries (2)    Dewlaping Oxetries (I)        oil exrers (2)         Caitrally Plad Comtries (2)
1970    1975    19680     1970    1975    198o         1970   1975   1980         1970    1975    1980
Dl}ECllN OF IRE
Export                70.8    60.1    68.7        ..9    21.7    25.4        13.9   11.1    4.8          9.4     6.1      0.4
lprts                 85.9    79.5    81.8        7.i    10.9     7.7         0.7    6.3    7.5          6.3     3.1      3.0
EA   CaIu-C
Febzuary 1965



- 29 -                                                 ANNEX I
Page 6 of 6
mum a KIM.  L L Mm, 8W Mm.
Ibpatito  6.7 u1l1Ua  (Id-I)
03 pu   1sa: *1,390 (1902)
196 1979             Mg13     11                 WM      Ln 
1.*~~~~~^te                                                                                           1 
at   lm  et *pi A mvi                     417.0  -356.0 D412.6  -49.2  -7.4   -M.0             -7_.0  -36.7  -?/b.3  -33.1
q     et_m  a o  ammicma             1.479.5 3,137.5 3,912J  3.963  3,470.1  3,255.5    3._ULo 4.0p6*  4.66   P,M13
Dmu of pod A                          1.36.  J.493.5 4.33.9 4.40.7 4.253S  3.90.5    3,11.0  4.10   5330.  9.34.4
Nit ta lh a2                               52.7    61.0   10.0    331.    40.0        295        71.0    32.0    33.0    50
02        ma  WIN=                       -'3.3  -2935.0  -372.6  -4.7  -74.4   473.4           -681.0  -67      -709.   -2ZLI
D11C3 privu. fivatme                      10L26    50.9   236.0   367.2   4L2    245            213.0   250.0    75.0   36.
ox i1mw (un)                              167.8    i6    3 3.1   293.2   33D.7    393.1         399.0   472.7    03   374.3
Official                                 30A    191.9   22.7   247.2  Z77.0    311.4            u6   409.5   435A    426.7
FPdo                                     37.4   292.7    SL4    46.0    5.7         82.7        n.a.   63.2    6.9   141
odu Capital                                S3.2  -116.6  -'11.6    524   -U1.6         0.0       26.0    -        -       -
aia  in "men"                              337  -123.9    66.9       .1    27.1       39.0      -3.0   -0.0   -70.0  -6.J
DNminml                                   3 00    415.5   453.    5M1   40.          367.3          a. 5.320.0   590.0 23G6J
b_mnua,duof i_ 1                            2.2      1.6     14      14        7       L.7        U.7.    1.3      1.3     3.0
ctmim                           Paul.
1976     1919     1i      191t    19in     W33 31 *1i
*iZ;ell  om                                   50.2    50.7      41.5     10.3    19.0      22.1    260
_mm di*z a of ILT  loss                       29.5   637.8    557.9    60S.7   620.4    797.6   7310
iBn1l                                        lOk.O  1W0.9    216.4   245.5   217.1    117.2         i...
m    jl1mua                              9f.1   140.0    1938.     239.5   22D.9    317.2         .
ML                                        11.9    0.2       1.0     1LI      LO      -        -
Odl .atilatul                              0.0     0.7       6.9      4.9    1.1       -       -
Ibuu*asimm1                                t25.5   496.9    351.5    360.2   373.3    4D.         A.L
Itim                                      60.1   378.3    23.4    2Z.9   2WA.    321.5          u.
Official  I   cr.dic                       9.9    49.6      53.5  234    21.           5L4      U.S.
Mm                                        25.3    55A.      51.1     69.4    IIJ      3.6   129.2
ndiar matiatacml                          30.2      3.7     72.6     32.5    2L7       13S.0    na.
E L 1Me
D.ebt      zumdt a   idbwad               1,166.5 3,023.6  3.229.2  3,261.7 3.471.6  3.363.? 4.2%.3
Officisl                                 971.9 1.37.0  2.0ZL1  2,13.1  2,33.3  2.6ULJ  3.016.7
-                                       I27.9   216.8    25M      306.5   363.7    431.2   52.0
33                                      61.1    67.3      67.9     67.5    67.8      6T.0    66.1
tbor                                    729.9 1.552.9  1.697.4  t757.1  1.39L3   2,140.5 2.4261
p_j;                                   194.6 1.181.6  1,339.1  1,150.6 1.1.41.3  1.223A4 1,277.7
kdimurxd dcbt                             1110UJ  1.819.8  1,901.1  1,902.4  1,3   L. 65.3  1.807.2
1 az
t   cd bt servic pa_nho                  98.6   J15.9    431.0    517.5   41.5 5     6.3   50.0
int_t                                     136.9   162.7    216.1    205.0   195.3    196.    206.0
p-ay     _l M qZtmE                          6.7    10.1      11.0    13.1    14.0       18.4    19.3
M 2 (a                               2.2     44       4.9      6.1      5.9      7.4     6.7
_ inerst ram of    Lmia (CZ                 5.4    7.1        6.9      8.3      7.7      7.2     3.5
Official                                   4.3      3.6      5.9      6.9     7.1       -        -
Paivam                                     7.9     9.8      10.5     12.7     9.4       -       -
A_W-        ty of 1  Rim  (yam.)            16.6    15.8      17.2     15.4    17.7      15.9  U3.9
Official                                  20.4    19.4      19.4     18.2    20.2       -        -
f Etijo                                    8.6     9.2       9.2      5.8    I0.2       -        -
As 2 of Debt GAtodift
at End of 1b t Pamt
Yam (1933)
13 SINCM
FNihaity stfMEa  of debt outswajle
*mticti,m  dw within 5 yurs                                     38..
Atzsti  An within W years                                       68.6
inltt utncur of ecbt mutw L   :i1
lntem  due wuitn fint yr                                        s.0
A  Mobecs  my not a  up ndue to radin.
/2z Iinkdiaus 
/3 Dbt f_arm --buas t?agh eod 1917L
93 da  incicde a1l c        _u, but pCjact dimarmunt ad   - s,a.
am Ct Uc
Fd1985



-30  -n
MIE SMTU OF' mw mm aPERATIQE IN t1IISSA
A. !OEMr    1U LAMAD MA, CEDrS (As of Suptepber 30. 1984) *
15 * li.llimz
cadk    caladui                                                                        C_________________i    _
5obw      Yaw           DOrr.aer                                                        &       -m       Imdi.s-:
Forty    Lam ad Cnuitts Flly Disadd                                                    389.0   75.2
1431      1977       Rqp.blic of Zxisia            imstuw [clopnt                       42.00                3.61
1445'    1977                    Fcanth We" SuppLy                                      21.00                2.11
1601      1978       iqaMic of Twisa               Rwal Roads (Thrd Highays)            32.00               15.n
1675      1979       Rpublic of Tunisia            Sw5W Urban Sewerage                  26.50               13.32
1705      1979       Ikqublic of Tunisia           Seco Urban Deelopmnt                 19.00               11.82
17U       On79        elic -of Tunisia             secn  Fishries                       28.50               18.18
1796      1983        qApublic of Tuiisia          Sathern frrig;tian                   25.00               16.86
1797      1980       Office des Ports Narionax    Mird Porc                             42.50               12.38
141       1960       Iqauic of Tunisia             Furth Highi-mys                      36.50               25.4
1B64      1980       socidtdbw im     de
'LElactrici6 et du Gsaz      Second u:=al  Ga Pipeliz              37.00              18.31
85        1960       Dmqwc N-ihric  de MmE iste 4hid Agriculi:uwal Creit                30.00               17.57
1961      191        hpublic of  xii sia           Fourth FAm=ixi                       26.00               22.92
O9W       1981       Rqublic of Bsai ia            SOl1-scale Tzksry r   lpon           30.0D               75.40
1997      BR         lNephl.ic of baxisia          Northest Bura1 Developer             24.00               18.36
200        1961      Socik6 11alisiaa de
Iectlrticit6 et duz Gaz      Tbird Power                          41.50               29.50
2005      1981       BReublc of Tunisia             elrth asl Ppularican                12.50               10.91
2M2        1981      Republic of txnisia           Textile Rehabilitation               18.60                3.80
2052      1981       Republic of Tuniaia           Grain Discributica   ad Storage      42.00               40.90
2108       19        Republic of Tunisia           Fifth Hi*sny (1ral Rads)             35.50               33.84
2113      1962                                     ELctrical ad Mechanical Industries  30.50                19.28
21.3      198B2                                    Sixh Water Supply                    30.50               18.20
Z157      1982       Rxblic of Mmisia              Irrization Develapnent               22.00               20.99
2197      1982       Rqzblic of iDsin             Techical Aaun. e                      4.50                3.99
-3 -      I=3        Republic of Miniaia           Urban Deue1nwt III                   25.00                 .41
2230       198       Republic of Tasisia            s&racrio V                          27.00               26.60
2234      1983       RpubLir or aTisia             CeGnral Tunisia Irrigatiui           16.50               15.35
2255       18        tmp. lic of Tnis              Urban Seweage III                    34.00               33.75
2289       1983      Republic of Manii             Sfax Flood Protection                7 .00               24. -
2301       3983      REPblic of Dmisia             bnisry (IV) Foundry                  16.80               L6.1-
2346      l9b60      Rep"ic of Tami ia              i     Tecnical Assis'xe             13.40               13.40
2368       196        hpblifc of Usisia            Sevnh   ter SupWly                   50.00               50.00
2429 a/   L984       Repub}ic of Ax:sMA            Second Urban Transport               33.00               33.00
2455I    1564        ScW  bxkii     de
TElcriciz et d Gaz           Facth Power                           38.70              38.70
TOAL                                                           1, 326.00   75.2
Of uic-l has been repaLd                                         179.38    8.6
Tocal row outstanding
Acnt Sold                                    14.33
of uhich has beme repaic                    14.33
Total raw held t Bank ;rd li bi
Total Uni;sbxrsed                                              1,146.62   66.6      679.53
a/  No  e  effs:tiue
b   Prior C eichange rate aijusrzn
*    On March  14, 1985, a $15.0 million  loan to  the Republic of Tunisia  for
a Northwest Agricul-ural project  has been approved.



- 31 -
hp 2 of 2
IL  Jmar  WFC DU== IN MMIEI  (a !St 3D,19 1)
*Am of 1M lHiflim
Ti  _T                                   of  1i               _     
1962       iK Ergzis ueRtiiTra                                         2.0      1.5       3.5
19M        Soeift 1tc. d'Imen..t               Dev. Five Co.                   0.6        0.6
1969       CM  (Tawr.m                         Dev. Ffr.w.e Co.        8.0      2.2      10.2
1970       SociAtf Ntt. d'b.mus"nt             Dev. Fiice Co.                  0.6        0.6
(=w mr)
1973       Soci& Tiwitiqe                      Toaima                  1.o      0.3       1.9
at Ha*libm   SA
1975       Socift dEtiest                      TeCim                   2.5     0.6        3.1
1974       In'tia  Mimics                      Qiincals                         0.6       0.6
2978       ZE                                  Dewv. Fie   Co.                 1.2        1.2
19Sf       S=ikf  dsisim  de laausi            Tasi  C>.                       0.5
1adG=   Cmnm                                               14.1     8.1 I/   22.2
lAN ,s1Jatims                                              12.2     1.8       14.0
'd Sol.e 
Total     1        w                                        1.9     6.3        8.2
beld by  C
Total Ldisbursed                                            0.0     0.3        0.3
1/ Mm FYI IhC's Dowd appXrove a equity iDnSte  of r$0DA 1illim  in FlWomr. 7 h
a    Dt busssb   b b   ig d yet ping udsotltim of umesoL       i#.



ANNEX III
-32-                     Page l of 2
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
EXPORT INDUSTRIES PROJECT
Supplemental Project Data Sheet
Section I: fimetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country                         15 months
to prepare the project:
(b) Agency that prepared--X-hc project:              Ministry of Planning,
BDET, BTKD and STUSID
(c) Project first identified by Bank:                 October 1983
(d) Bank appraisal mission:                          April 1984
(e) Negotiations completed:                          March 1985
(f) Planned date of effectiveness:                   August 1985
Section rI: Special. Rnnk implmentation actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
1.       Special Conditions of effectiveness:
Execution of Subsidiary Loan Agreements between the Government and
BDET, BTKD and STUSID (para. 63).
2.       Other special conditions:
(a) BDET, BTKD and STUSID shall annually review with the Bank the
development banks' interest rate level and structure in light of
the average cost of capital, administrative costs and the
general evolution of interest rates in Tunisia, and thereafter
all necessary measures satisfactory to the Bank shall be taken
by the development banks to achieve a reasonable spread,
permitting the establishment of sufficient reserves and
provisions and a reasonable return on capital (para. 36);



-33-
ANNEX I II
Page 2 of 2
(b) BDET, BTKD and STUSID shall review with the Bank each year the
resource needs of the three development banks for the following
year (para. 36); and
(c) by March 31, 1986 the Government shall complete and review with
the Bank a study on foreign currency risk coverage of foreign
borrowings (para. 37).



r'                           9'                                   10'                                 Ii'
BIZERTE
Se 51onno F          =  ~~~~~Rs Diabell
37'                                                                    _<                          xtutique     I lJb4!.S            /) El Aowulor                    37'
fJ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T                                    La 4  t  ENite>   r b
BE jA                                                                  Mnzel T7mime
ro 5X, AAV'  /<8 Gh6o0!H  rdE,maol 
X     U A                                                                 DXhm        Chbbl
35'*                                                                                    /1|                                         a     bir                         35'
)    11       . ti /    51Dl BO9UZiDf /$  F A X\>   J
hr im-              eboursu                 Bir Al Bh                  e               FAXa  E ULo



Mezzouna                       Mahor us
- _  W   <          G~~~AFSA,J                                          t        J
/~~~y   Mo lY@I                  G       Eltr>' 'ij
,J       (  }/ ) R;7edayefhira
< J 0 f _ / . f ~~~~~~~~~~Gulf of
l    ,hr ea\                                                                                                     >/tW-  -     UaGobes 5
34.   TOZ'ELYP~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
kw el             lboula~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Oeib
sj  Nof         t to                    ,,A,BE_S,;5  
------                                                              Wa~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I/nd'
\ 'sr /, hour &, C)   O                                                     G  A B E Sr \                        M.1
K     E,                                                   Motmota
i~~~~~~~~~~ ' 0Douzch ''                                                                                  L,
MEDENINE                  
33. .
facurino                     1          5 
A T A    U I N              E
T U N I S I A~~~~~~~~~I 
0        25         50        75
*     National Capitol                                    KILOMETERS                                                         I
'   Governorate Capitals                           This map has bOee Wprered by
The World t3ank's StarN exclusively <      z!
Paved  Roads                                 for the converventce                                 -, .e
readers and is excAusively for the               0Remiodo                      1     I  fde~a~'
Railways                                     internal use ot rhe World Bank             ,/    Ra                                         s. 
4'   Ports                                         and the rnerlationat Finance                                                       /
+     Airports                                      usedand theboundares shwnI
r                      )   Salt Lokes                                    p   ofTh     inand the (
0                                                                                                    A L G E R~~~~   ~    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ IALIBYA
Mn                          Governorate  Boundories                     bnernaltiolaFkince Ceporiston .                              32'   ALGEIA
C                                                                        any judgmnent an the legal status                                                 ..
-                           International Boundaries                     ofany etc,vo'yorany                                0
ensdorsement or acceptance of                       -           IK
go    such boundaries.                                                 V..
lOg                                        /NIGER    ? CHAD






