Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 3892-HO 
 
Development Credit Agreement 
 
(Nuestras Raíces
 Project) 
 
between 
 
THE REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated August 18, 2004
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 3892-HO 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated August 18, 2004, between the Republic of Honduras (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the 
Association). 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project; and 
WHEREAS (B) the Association has agreed, on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of
the 
foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in 
this Agreement; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through October 6, 
1999) (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a) 
“Beneficiary” means a group of the Borrower’s indigenous and afro-
honduran peoples which has met the criteria set forth in the Operational Manual to carry 
out a Sub-project; 
 (b) 
“Eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (4) set forth in the 
table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;  
(c) 
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods, works and 
consultants’ services referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
Page  3
-
2
-
(d) 
“Environmental Management Plan” means the Borrower’s environmental 
impact framework for the Project, that contains specific environmental rules and 
procedures for the Project, as said plan may be updated from time to time in the 
Operational Manual (as hereinafter defined); 
 
(e) 
“Ethnic Representatives” means the nine persons representing the nine 
ethnic peoples existing in Honduras, which have been nominated by the country's ethnic 
federations; 
 (f) 
“FHIS” 
means 
Fondo Hondureño de Inversión Social
,
the Borrower’s 
Social Investment Fund established pursuant to Decree 12-90,  amended by Decrees 
Numbers 153-94 and 166-99; 
(g) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” or “FMR” means each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement. 
(h) 
“Grant Agreement” means any of the grant agreements to be entered into 
between FHIS and a Beneficiary providing for a Sub-project Grant;  
(i) 
“Implementation Letter” means the letter of even date herewith from the 
Borrower to the Bank setting forth the Performance Indicators (as hereinafter defined);  
(j) 
“MIS” means a FHIS’ comprehensive management information system 
that allows for processing and monitoring of Sub-projects (herein after defined); 
(k) 
“Model Forms” means the model Grant Agreements set forth in the 
Operational Manual (as hereinafter defined); 
(l) 
“Nuestras Raices” means FHIS’ program to address the specific needs of 
the Borrower’s indigenous and afro-honduran peoples through strengthening their 
capacity to build sustainable organization, development projects and cultural identity; 
(m) 
“Operational Manual” means the manual refereed to in Section 3.03 of 
this Agreement; 
 (n) 
“PCU” means the 
Nuestras Raíces
 unit within FHIS referred to in 
Section 3.04 of this Agreement; 
Page  4
-
3
-
(o) 
“Performance Indicators” means the indicators for monitoring and 
evaluating progress towards the attainment of Project objectives set forth in the 
Implementation Letter;  
(p) 
“Report-based Disbursements” means the Borrower’s option for 
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account referred to in Part A.4 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement; 
(q) “SEFIN” 
means 
Secretaría de Estado en el Despacho de Finanzas
,
the 
Borrower’s Ministry of Finance; 
(r) 
“Subsidiary Agreement” means the agreement referred to in Section 3.01 
(b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time; 
(s) 
“Sub-project” means a specific set of activities which:  (i) meets the 
criteria set forth in the Operational Manual; (ii) is financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit;  (iii) is carried out by the Beneficiaries; and (iv) involves the use of technical 
assistance, utilization of goods, carrying out of works and expenditure for operating 
costs; 
(t) 
“Sub-project Grant” means a grant made or proposed to be made by 
FHIS out of the proceeds of the Credit to a Beneficiary for the partial financing of a Sub-
project pursuant to the terms of the Operational Manual; and 
(u) 
 “Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02(b) of 
this Agreement. 
Section 1.03. Each reference in the General Conditions to the Project 
implementing entity shall be deemed as a reference to FHIS. 
ARTICLE II 
The Credit 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to ten million one hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 10,100,000). 
Page  5
-
4
-
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of Sub-
projects payments and the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit. 
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in its Central Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory 
to the Association.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be 
made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be May 31, 2008 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such 
later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set 
by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of 
one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
(b) 
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at the 
rate set as of June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates as 
may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of 
June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in Section 
2.06 of this Agreement. 
(c) 
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or 
in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for 
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency 
or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the 
provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on June 15 and December 15 in each year. 
Page  6
-
5
-
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each June 
15 and December 15 commencing June 15, 2014 and ending December 15, 2043. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on December 15, 2023 shall be one 
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two 
percent (2%) of such principal amount. 
(b) 
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the level 
established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access the 
Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the 
Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the 
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the repayment of installments under 
paragraph (a) above by: 
 
(A) 
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such 
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit 
shall have been repaid; and 
 
(B) 
requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the principal 
amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment date 
referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more 
after the date on which the Association notifies the Borrower that 
the events set out in this paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, 
however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum of five 
years on such repayment of principal. 
(c) 
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of the 
increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate 
agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification. 
(d) 
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further 
modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in 
paragraph (a) above. 
Page  7
-
6
-
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall cause FHIS to 
carry out the Project pursuant to the Subsidiary Agreement, and with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with the Operational Manual and with appropriate 
engineering, economic, financial, administrative and environmental practices, and shall 
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required 
for the Project. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall enter into an agreement with FHIS, satisfactory to 
the Association, providing 
inter alia
,
for: 
(i) 
the provision to FHIS of the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required to enable FHIS to carry out the Project, 
including the transfer of the proceeds of the Credit on a grant 
basis; and 
(ii) 
the obligation of FHIS to carry out the Project in accordance 
with the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and in 
the Operational Manual, including the obligation to: 
(A) 
comply with the provisions of Sections 4.01 and 4.02 of 
this Agreement; 
(B) 
promptly inform the Association of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of  
the Project  or the Sub-projects, the accomplishment of 
the purposes of the Credit, or the performance of its 
obligations under the Subsidiary Agreement; and 
(C) 
prepare the reports and plans referred to in Section 3.07 
(b) of this Agreement.  
 
(c) 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under 
the Subsidiary Agreement in such a manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower 
Page  8
-
7
-
and the Association, and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit and, except as the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not change, assign, amend, 
abrogate, waive or fail to enforce the Subsidiary Agreement or any provision thereof.  
 
Section 3.02.  Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement. 
 
Section 3.03.  (a) The Borrower shall cause FHIS to adopt a manual, satisfactory 
to the Association, setting forth rules and procedures for the carrying out of the Project, 
such manual to include, 
inter alia
:
(i) 
the Environmental Management Plan; 
(ii) 
a detailed description of the participatory planning process under 
Part A of the Project; 
(iii) 
a detailed description of all phases of the Subproject cycle under 
Part B of the Project; 
(iv) 
the eligibility criteria to award Sub-project Grants; and 
(v) the 
Model 
Forms. 
(b) 
The Operational Manual may be amended by FHIS from time to time 
with the prior approval of the Association.  In the case of any conflict between the terms 
of the Operational Manual and those of this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall 
prevail. 
Section 3.04.  The Borrower shall cause FHIS to maintain, during Project 
implementation, a Project coordination unit (the PCU) in accordance with the functions 
and responsibilities acceptable to the Association and set forth in the Operational Manual. 
FHIS shall ensure that the PCU is at all times during the implementation of the Project 
headed by a Project coordinator and staffed by core professional staff in numbers and 
with experience and qualifications acceptable to the Association. 
 
Section 3.05.  The Borrower shall cause FHIS, until completion of the Project, to 
maintain an executive director and other key staff, including, without limitation, an 
executive coordinator, a procurement director, a financial management director, a 
projects director, an environmental unit chief, and a monitoring and supervision director, 
Page  9
-
8
-
all with experience and qualifications that shall be at all times acceptable to the 
Association, and to consult with the Association with respect to the replacement of key 
staff of FHIS prior to any such replacement. 
 
Section 3.06.  For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
prepare, and furnish to the Association not later than six months after the 
Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower 
and the Association, a plan, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall 
reasonably request, for the future operation of the Project;   
 
(b) 
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan; and 
(c) 
by no later than June 2006, carry out an in-depth Project review (the mid-
term review), jointly with the Association, on the progress achieved in the 
implementation of the Project. 
 
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall cause FHIS to: 
 
(a)  
maintain policies and procedures, acceptable to the Association, to 
enable FHIS to monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis the carrying out of the Project 
and the achievement of the objectives thereof in accordance with the performance 
indicators set forth in the Implementation Letter;  
 
(b)  
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, before the end of May and November of each year until the 
completion of the Project, beginning in November 2004, a report on the implementation 
of the Project during the preceding semester in which the report is furnished to the 
Association, each report to detail: (i) the financial and physical progress of the Project; 
(ii) FHIS’ institutional performance and achievements under the Project; (iii) the results 
of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section; and (iv) the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following the date 
of the report; 
(c) 
review with the Borrower and the Association the report referred to in 
paragraph (b) of this Section; and 
Page  10
-
9
-
(d) 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion 
of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recomme
ndations of said report and the Association’s views on the matter. 
 
Section 3.08.  The Borrower undertakes that, unless the Association shall 
otherwise agree, Sub-projects shall be promoted, identified, appraised, carried out and 
monitored in accordance with the procedures set forth or referred to in the Operational 
Manual. 
 
Section 3.09. (a)  With respect to Part B of the Project, the Borrower shall cause 
FHIS to:  (i) solicit Sub-project proposals from interested groups; (ii) approve only those 
proposals which meet eligibility criteria set forth in the Operational Manual; (iii) require 
the Beneficiaries to undertake their Sub-project procurement and consultant selection 
according to the procedures set forth or referred to in Schedule 3 to this Agreement; (iv) 
ensure that the amount paid to the providers of the goods, works or consultant services 
procured to carry out each Sub-project consists of at least ten percent paid by such 
groups, in cash or in kind, out of their own resources and at most ninety percent financed 
by FHIS (as set forth in the relevant Grant Agreement); and (v) ensure that such goods, 
works or consultant services are used by such groups to carry out their respective Sub-
projects.
 
(b) 
Except the Association otherwise agree, the Borrower shall cause FHIS 
to ensure that no Sub-project cost more than $100,000.  
Section 3.10.  For the purposes of carrying out Part B of the Project, FHIS shall: 
(a) 
enter into an agreement with each Beneficiary in accordance with the 
terms and conditions of the Operational Manual and the Model Forms;  
(b) 
exercise its rights and comply with its obligations under any Grant 
Agreement, in such a manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the 
Association and to accomplish the objective of the Credit and, except as the Association 
shall otherwise agree, FHIS shall not assign, amend, abrogate, waive or fail to enforce the 
Grant Agreements or any provision thereof; and 
(c) 
hire external auditors to perform a semiannual operational review of a 
sample of the  Sub-projects, including compliance with financial and procurement clauses 
of this Credit Agreement and the Operational Manual, starting on April 2005. Said 
external auditors should be hired not later than March 31, 2005. 
Page  11
-
10
 - 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall  cause FHIS to establish and maintain a 
financial management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial 
statements in accordance with consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the 
Association, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the 
Project.  
(b) 
The Borrower shall cause FHIS to: 
(i) 
have the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each fiscal year (or other period agreed to by the 
Association), audited, in accordance with consistently applied 
auditing standards acceptable to the Association, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the Association; 
(ii) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than four months after the end of each such year (or 
such other period agreed to by the Association): (A) certified 
copies of the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section for such year (or other period agreed to by the 
Association), as so audited; and (B) an opinion on such 
statements by said auditors, in scope and detail satisfactory to the 
Association; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
such records and accounts, and the audit of such financial 
statements, and concerning said auditors, as the Association may 
from time to time reasonably request. 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall cause 
FHIS to: 
(i) 
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit report for, or covering, the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Credit Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures; 
Page  12
-
11
 - 
(ii) 
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such 
records; and 
(iii) 
ensure that such statements of expenditure are included in the 
audit for each fiscal year (or other period agreed to by the 
Association), referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section. 
Section 4.02.  (a) Without limitation upon the Borrower’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in Section 3.07 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall prepare and 
furnish to the Association a financial monitoring report, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Association, which: 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Credit, and explains 
variances between the actual and planned uses of  such funds; 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual
 
and planned Project 
implementation; and 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
(b) 
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Association not later than 45 
days after the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover the 
period from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of 
such first calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Association not 
later than 45 days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such calendar 
quarter. 
ARTICLE V
 
Remedies of the Association
 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: that FHIS shall have failed to comply with any 
of its obligations under the Subsidiary Agreement. 
Page  13
-
12
 - 
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01(h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that any of the events specified in Section 
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after 
notice thereof shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower. 
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination 
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions: 
(a) 
that the Subsidiary Agreement has been entered into between the 
Borrower and FHIS;  
(b) 
that the Operational Manual, including an operating plan for the first year 
of Project implementation and a detailed procurement plan satisfactory to the 
Association, has been adopted and put into effect and the standard forms set forth in the 
Operational Manual are integrated into MIS;  
(c) 
that the auditors referred to in Section 4.01(b)(i) of this Agreement have 
been properly appointed; and 
(d) 
that the guidelines for using the FHIS’ contractors database have been 
approved by the Association. 
Section 6.02. The date November 16, 2004 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 7.01.  The Secretary of SEFIN is designated as representative of the 
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions. 
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
Page  14
-
13
 - 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Secretaría de Estado en el Despacho de Finanzas
 
Tegucigalpa, M.D.C 
 
Honduras 
 
Cable 
address: 
     
 
Facsimile: 
 
HACIENDA (504) 
237-4142 
 Tegucigalpa 
 
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:   
     Telex: 
 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
64145 (MCI) 
 
Page  15
-
14
 - 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Tegucigalpa, Honduras, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS 
 
By /s/ Arturo Alvarado 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/ Joseph Owen 
Authorized Representative 
 
Honorary Witness on behalf of 
the Republic of Honduras: 
 
/s/ Ricardo Maduro 
President of the Republic of Honduras 
Page  16
-
15
 - 
SCHEDULE 1
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit 
Part A
:
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
Credit Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1) 
Goods (including non- 
150,000 
100% of foreign 
 consultant 
services 
which 
 
expenditures 
 
are bid and contracted on 
 
and 88% of local 
 
the basis of performance 
 
expenditures 
 
of a measurable physical 
 
 
 
output, such as printing 
 
and similar operations) 
 
(2) 
Consultants’ services: 
 
98% 
 
(a)  Service Delivery Contracts 
100,000 
 
(b)  Other (including audits) 
650,000 
 
(3) 
Payments made to  
8,200,000 
100% 
 
Beneficiaries by FHIS  
 
as Sub-projects Grants 
 
(4) Training 
300,000 
100% 
 
(5) 
Unallocated 
         700,000 
 
 
_________
TOTAL  
10,100,000
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
Page  17
-
16
 - 
(a) 
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of 
any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;  
(b) 
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; 
(c) 
the term “service delivery contracts” means contracts with service 
delivery providers to carry out:  (i) participatory social monitoring activities under the 
Project, which contracts may include travel, per diem, rental of facilities, and any other 
logistic arrangements needed for such activities; and (ii) activities to promote the Project, 
which contracts may include travel, per diem, rental of facilities, communication services 
(expenditures for radio and newspaper advertisements incurred by the Borrower in 
connection with the carrying out of the communication strategy under the Project); and 
 (d) 
the term “training” means expenditures (other than for consultants’ 
services) incurred for:  (i)  reasonable travel, room, board and 
per diem
 expenditures 
incurred by trainers and trainees in connection with their training and by non-consultant 
training facilitators; (ii) course fees; (iii) training facility and equipment rentals; (iv) 
training material preparation, acquisition, reproduction and distribution expenses not 
otherwise covered under this paragraph; and (v) study tours in the Borrower’s territory or 
abroad. 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of 
SDR1,000,000, may be made on account of payments made for expenditures before that 
date but after March 8, 2004 (but in no case earlier than twelve months immediately 
before the date of this Agreement). 
4. 
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for: (a) goods 
costing less than $50,000 equivalent per contract; (b) service delivery contracts
 
costing 
less than $50,000 equivalent per contract;  (c) services of individual consultants costing 
less than $50,000 equivalent per contract; and (d) services of consulting firms under 
contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, all under such terms and 
conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. 
5. 
The Borrower may request withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of reports to be submitted to the Association in form and substance satisfactory 
to the Association, such reports to include the FMR and any other information as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower (Report-based Disbursements). In the 
Page  18
-
17
 - 
case of the first such request submitted to the Association before any withdrawal has been 
made from the Credit Account, the Borrower shall submit to the Association only a 
statement with the projected sources and applications of funds for the Project for the six-
month period following the date of such request. 
Part B
:
Special Account
1. 
The Borrower may open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in its 
Central Bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association. 
2. 
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been opened, withdrawals from the Credit Account of amounts to be 
deposited into the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
if the Borrower is not making Report-based Disbursements, withdrawals 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and  
 
(b) 
if the Borrower is making Report-based Disbursements, withdrawals shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1.
 
3. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for Eligible Expenditures. 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Association shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:  
 
(a) 
if the Association, at any time, is not satisfied that the reports referred to 
in Part A.4 of this Schedule 1 adequately provide the information required for Report-
based Disbursements;  
 
(b) 
if the Association determines at any time that all further withdrawals for 
payment of Eligible Expenditures should be made by the Borrower directly from the 
Credit Account; or 
 
(c) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit 
of: (A) the records and accounts for the Special Account; or (B) the records and accounts 
Page  19
-
18
 - 
reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were Report-based 
Disbursements or were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, as the case may 
be. 
 
5. 
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the 
Association shall have notified the Borrower and the Guarantor of its intention to suspend 
in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit 
Account pursuant to Section 6.02 of the General Conditions.  Upon such notification, the 
Association shall determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the 
Special Account may be made and what procedures should be followed for making such 
deposits, and shall notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of its determination. 
6. 
(a) 
If the Association determines at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or 
was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Association, provide such additional evidence as the 
Association may request, or deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall 
so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment.  
Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Association into 
the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or 
made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Association determines at any time that any amount outstanding in 
the Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures 
during the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.  
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to subparagraph (a), (b) or (c) 
of this paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Credit Agreement. 
Page  20
-
19
 - 
Annex A 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Operation of Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are Not  
Report-based Disbursements 
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Annex, the term “Authorized Allocation” means the 
amount of $1,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the 
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex. 
 
2. 
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to 
replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:  
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount 
or amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis 
of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the 
Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall 
have requested.  
 
(b) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Association requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the 
Association shall specify.  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the Association shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special 
Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
Eligible Expenditures. Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by 
the Association from the Credit Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories. 
3. 
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account, once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit minus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 
5.02 of the General Conditions shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the 
Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit shall follow such procedures as the Association shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and 
to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
Page  21
-
20
 - 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized 
in making payments for Eligible Expenditures. 
Page  22
-
21
 - 
Annex B 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Operation of Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are 
Report-based Disbursements 
 
1. 
Withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be deposited by the Association into 
the Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Association from 
the Credit Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories.  
2. 
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Credit, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and 
deposit into the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so 
requested; and (b) the amount which the Association has determined, based on the reports 
referred to in Part A.4 of this Schedule 1 applicable to such withdrawal application, is 
required to be deposited in order to finance Eligible Expenditures during the six-month 
period following the date of such reports. 
 
Page  23
-
22
 - 
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objective of the Project is to increase
 the participation of the Borrower’s 
indigenous and afro-honduran peoples in the holistic development process of their 
communities. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
Part A:
Participatory Development Planning by Ethnic Groups
1. 
Provision of training to the ethnic communities and their representatives to 
actively participate in the local development planning process. 
2. 
Provision of technical assistance to identify Sub-projects to be financed under 
Nuestras Raices
 and other Borrower’s programs targeted at the Borrower’s indigenous 
and afro-honduran peoples. 
3. 
Provision of technical assistance to encourage Ethnic Representatives to work 
closely with the Borrower’s municipalities to leverage funds. 
4. 
Carrying out of a participatory needs assessment to develop a community 
development plan for each community that will include a prioritized list of Sub-projects 
identified by such community members. 
Part B
:
Grants for Sub-projects
Provision of grants to the Beneficiaries to finance up to 90% of the investment 
costs of implementation of Sub-projects that meet the objectives of the Project. 
Part C
:
Capacity Building and Institutional Strengthening
Establishment of a system to monitor and evaluate Project implementation, 
including: 
1. 
(i)  design and implementation of an information, monitoring and evaluation 
system for Project implementation, including the carrying out of an evaluation and 
Page  24
-
23
 - 
studies required to assess Project progress; and (ii) design and implementation of a 
promotion/communication strategy for the Project; 
2. 
strengthening of FHIS to carry out its obligations under the Project (including its 
financial and procurement responsibilities) through the provision of technical assistance, 
training and equipment (as necessary);  
3. 
carrying out of financial and operational audits required for the Project; and 
4. 
strengthening the Beneficiaries’ capacity to carry out the Sub-projects through 
the provision of technical assistance and training. 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by November 30, 2007. 
Page  25
-
24
 - 
SCHEDULE 3
 
Procurement 
Section I
.
Procurement of Goods (including non-consultant services which are bid 
and contracted on the basis of performance of a measurable output, such as printing and 
similar operations) and Works
Part A
:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section 
I
of
the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by 
the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and 
January 1999  (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule. 
Part B
:
Procurement Procedures
1. 
National Competitive Bidding
Goods estimated to cost more than or equal to $50,000 equivalent per contract 
may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
2. 
International or National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $300,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international and national shopping procedures in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
3. 
Goods and Works under Subprojects
Goods and works under Subprojects shall be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 3.15 of the Guidelines and the procedures set forth in the 
Operational Manual. 
 
Page  26
-
25
 - 
Part C
:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1. Procurement 
Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to the first contract for goods procured under Part B.1 of 
this Section, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to:  (i) the first contract for goods procured in accordance 
with the procedures set forth in Part B.2 of this Section; (ii)  the first contract for goods of 
any price procured under Part B.3 of this Section awarded pursuant to the procedures set 
forth in paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines; (iii) each contract for goods estimated 
to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more procured in under Part B.3 of this Section 
awarded pursuant to the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines; 
(iv) the first contract for works of any price procured under Part B.3 of this Section, 
under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from 
three qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation;  (v) each contract 
for works estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more and procured under Part 
B.3 of this Section, under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of 
quotations obtained from three qualified domestic contractors in response to a written 
invitation;
 
and (vi) each contract for goods procured by direct contracting and estimated 
to cost the equivalent of $5,000 or more, the following procedures shall apply: 
(i) 
prior to the selection of any supplier or the execution of any 
contract under shopping procedures or small works, the 
Borrower shall provide to the Association a report on the 
comparison and evaluation of quotations received; 
(ii) 
prior to the execution of any contract procured under direct 
contracting or shopping procedures, the Borrower shall provide 
to the Association a copy of the specifications and the draft 
contract; and 
Page  27
-
26
 - 
(iii) 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f), 2(g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Part D
:
Special Provisions
In addition and without limitation to any other provisions set forth in this 
Schedule or in the Guidelines, the following principles and rules of procurement shall 
expressly govern all procurement of goods, works and non-consultant technical services 
referred to in Part B.1 of this Section: 
 
(a) 
Contracts shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated bid in accordance 
with criteria set forth in the bidding documents, and without taking into account, in the 
evaluation, the financial cost of foreign exchange components. 
 
(b) 
Foreign bidders shall not, as a condition for submitting bids, be required 
to: 
(i) 
be registered in Honduras; 
(ii) 
have a representative in Honduras; 
(iii) 
be associated with Honduran suppliers or contractors; and 
(iv) 
certify that, in their country of origin, Honduran suppliers or 
contractors are allowed to participate in competitive bidding 
procedures under equal conditions with other bidders. 
(c) 
Contracts shall not be divided for the sole purpose of reducing contract 
amounts. 
 
Page  28
-
27
 - 
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Sections I and IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in 
September 1997, January 1999 and May 2002 (the Consultant Guidelines), paragraph 1 
of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto and the following provisions of Section II of 
this Schedule. 
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Consultant Guidelines, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof 
applicable to quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
2. 
The following provision shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph: the short 
list of consultants for services, estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per 
contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 2.7 and footnote 8 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
Part C
:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1. Least-cost 
Selection
Services for audits estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract 
may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services for strategic plans estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per 
contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
Page  29
-
28
 - 
3. 
Single Source Selection
Services that meet the criteria set forth in paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the 
Consultant Guidelines
,
may, with the Association’s prior agreement, be procured in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
4. 
Service Delivery Contractors
Services to be provided by the Borrower’s indigenous and afro-honduran peoples 
under Parts A and C of the Project shall be procured in accordance with procedures 
acceptable to the Association. 
5. Individual 
Consultants
Services of individual consultants for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in 
paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines: (a) shall be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines; or (b) may be selected on a sole-source basis in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 5.3 and 5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines, subject to prior 
approval of the Association. 
Part D
:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1. Selection 
Planning
A
plan for the selection of consultants, which shall include contract cost 
estimates, contract packaging, and applicable selection criteria and procedures, shall be 
furnished to the Association for its review and approval prior to the issuance to 
consultants of any requests for proposals.  Such plan shall be updated every 6 months 
during the execution of the Project, and each such updating shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be 
undertaken in accordance with such selection plan (as updated from time to time) as shall 
have been approved by the Association. 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2, 3 and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
Page  30
-
29
 - 
 
(b) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants to be selected on a sole source basis, or estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$50,000 or more, the report on the comparison of the qualifications and experience of 
candidates, the qualifications, experience terms of reference and terms of employment of 
the consultants shall be furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval.  
The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.  The 
provisions of paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall also apply to 
such contracts. 
 
(c) 
With respect to the first three contracts of any price for the employment 
of consulting firms under Subprojects, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2, 3 and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(d) 
With respect to the first three contracts of any price for the employment 
of individual consultants under Subprojects and each contract for the employment of 
individual consultants under Subprojects selected on a sole-source basis, the report on the 
comparison of the qualifications and experience of candidates, the qualifications, 
experience terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.  The provisions of paragraph 
3
of
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall also apply to such contracts. 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply. 
Part E
:
Special Provisions
In addition and without limitation to any other provisions set forth in this 
Schedule or the Consultant Guidelines, the following principles of procurement shall 
expressly govern all procurement of consultants’ services referred to in Section II of this 
Schedule: 
 
(a) 
Foreign consultants shall be permitted to participate in the selection 
process even if there is availability of Honduran consultants for the services being 
procured; and 
 
(b) 
foreign consultants shall not be required to be registered with Honduran 
associations or to be associated with Honduran consulting firms as a condition for 
participating in any selection process.
Page  31
-
30
 - 
 
