                                               Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                 FOROFFICIAL USEONLY



                                                                                 Report No: 27771-HO




                               PROJECTAPPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                                                  ONA

                                        PROPOSEDCREDIT

  INTHEAMOUNT OFSDR 10.1MILLION (US$15.0MILLIONEQUIVALENT)

                                                 TO THE

                                    REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS

                                                 FORA

                                  NUESTRAS RAiCES PROJECT




HumanDevelopment Sector Management Unit
Central America Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region



 This document has arestricteddistribution and may be used by recipientsonly inthe performance of their
 official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                           CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                     (Exchange Rate Effective February 4,2004)


                          Currency Unit = Honduran Lempiras (HNL)
                                     1L = US$0.06
                                US$l.OO    = *L17.81

                                   FISCALYEAR
                              January 1    - December31
                         ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS      Country AssistanceStrategy
CDD      Community Driven Development
CFAA     Country Financial Accountability Assessment
CMU      Country ManagementUnit
DO       Development Objective
ESA      Economia, Sociedad, Ambiente-ESA Consultores
FHIS     Fondo Hondureiio de Inversidn Social
FMR      Financial Monitoring Report
GNI      Gross Net Income
GOH      Governmentof Honduras
ICR      Implementation Completion Report
IDA      International DevelopmentAssociation
IDB      InteramericanDevelopmentBank
ILO      International Labour Organization
IP       Implementation Progress
IP       Indigenous Peoples
KFW       KFWGroup (KfWBankengruppeinGerman)
LAC      LatinAmerica and the CaribbeanRegion
MIS      ManagementInformationSystem
NR       NuestrasRaices
OED      OperationsEvaluation Department
PAPIN     Programade Apoyo paraPueblosIndigenas y Negros
PDO       Project DevelopmentObjectives
PEC       OperationManual for Community Sub Projects
PECINH    ProyectosEjecutadospor Comunidades Indigenas y Negrasde Honduras
PEDM      Strategic Municipal DevelopmentPlans
PIC       Project Implementation Committee
PPARs     Project PerformanceAssessment Reports
PRODDEL   Decentralization and LocalDevelopmentProgram
PRONEEAAH National Education Programfor Ethnic Groups inHonduras
PRSP      Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
REPEPIN   Reduccidnde la PobrezaEnfocadaa PueblosIndigenasy Negros
SEFIN     Secretariade Finanzas
SOPTRAVI  Sistemade Obras Pdblicas, Transporte y Vivienda
TA        Technical Assistance
TSC       Tribunal Superior de Cuentas (Audit Court)
UNDP      The UnitedNations DevelopmentProgram

                          Vice President:       David de Ferranti
             Country ManagedDirector:           Jane Armitage
                           Sector Leader:       HelenaRibe
                      Task Team Leader:         Andrea Vermehren

                                                         HONDURAS                            FOROFFICIAL USEONLY
                                             NuestrasRaicesProgram

                                                          CONTENTS


     A STRATEGICCONTEXTAND RATIONALE
      .                                                                       .....................................................................Page1
       1. Country and sector issues (for more detail. see Annex 1)                                 ............................................... 1
       2. Rationale for Bank involvement                 .................................................................................. 2
       3. Higher level objectives to which the project contributes                                ................................................ 3

     B PROJECTDESCRIPTION
      .                                    .....................................................................................................     4
       1. Lending instrument        .................................................................................................... 4
       2. Project development objective andkey indicators                              .........................................................     4
       3. Project components        ....................................................................................................             4
       4. Lessons learned and reflected inthe project design                             ....................................................... 5
       5. Alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                           ..........................................................     7


     C IMPLEMENTATION
      .                           ..................................................................... ........................................     7
       1. Partnership arrangements           ............................................................................................            7
       2. Institutional and implementation arrangements(for details see annex 6).........................                                            7
       3. Monitoring andevaluation of outcomes/results                            .............................................................      9
       4. Sustainability   .............................................................................................................             9
       5. Critical risks and possible controversial aspects..........................................................                               10
       6. Credit conditions and covenants               ................................................................................ 12

     D APPRAISALSUMMARY
      .                                  .....................................................................................................       12
       1. Economic and financial analysis               ................................................................................ 12
      2.  Technical  .................................................................................................................              12
       3. Fiduciary .................................................................................................................               12
      4. Social ...................................................................................................................... 13
      5. Environment............................................................................................................                    15
      6.  Safeguardpolicies       ....................................................................................................              15
      7.  Policy Exceptions and Readiness                ............................................................................... 16

This documenthas a restricteddistributionandmay be used by recipients only in
the performance of their official duties Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed
without World Bank authorization                         .        .
                                                                                                                                                         .

Annexes

Annex 1:Country andSector or Program Background                                ..........................................................       17
Annex 2: Major Related Projects Financed by the Bankand/or other Agencies                                                     ..................22
Annex 3: Results Framework andMonitoring                      .........................................................................         24
Annex 4: Detailed Project Description           ......................................................................................          30
Annex 5: Project Costs................................................................................................................          36
Annex 6: ImplementationArrangements                 ..................................................................................          37
Annex 7: FinancialManagement and Disbursement Arrangements                                           ......................................     40
Annex 8: Procurement  ................................................................................................................          47
Annex 9: Economic andFinancialAnalysis                  ..............................................................................          55
Annex 10: Safeguard Policy Issues       .............................................................................................           58
Annex 11: Project Preparation andSupervision                     ......................................................................         62
Annex 12: Summary of Results from Ex post Evaluation                              .......................................................       63
Annex 13: Documents inthe Project File              ..................................................................................          65
Annex 14: Statement of Loans and Credits               ...............................................................................          66
Annex 15: Country at a Glance      ..................................................................................................           67

A. STRATEGICCONTEXTAND RATIONALE
1. Country andsector issues(for moredetail, see Annex 1)

1.       Honduras is one of the poorest countries inLatin America and i s characterized by a highdegree
of income disparity. With a per capita GrossNet Income (GNI) of US$920 in 2002, the country i s the
thirdpoorest inLatinAmerica. Given its highincome inequality (the national Ginicoefficient is 0.6),
poverty i s widespread. Nearly two-thirds of the populationi s poor and nearly half i s extremely poor.'

2.       Indigenous and Afro-Honduran peoples number over 440,000 (7.2 percent of the total
population) and consist of nine distinct ethnic groups (Lenca, Gm'funa, Miskito, Chorti, Pech, Tawahka,
Tolupfin, English-speaking Black, and Nahoa). The ethnic communitiesare among the poorest inthe
country, with much higher than averagerates of malnutritionand illiteracy and unsatisfied basic needs?
The participation of these groups inthe democratic processesat the central and local government levels i s
limited. A more active participation inthese government structures i s key to reducing poverty and
improvingthe living conditions of Honduras' ethnic communities.

3.       In2001, the Government of Honduras (GOH) presentedits Poverty ReductionStrategy Paper
(PRSP), which seeks to reduce poverty by 24 percent during2001-2015 through a comprehensive set of
measures or pillars, including: (1) accelerating equitable and sustainable economic growth; (2) reducing
poverty in rural areas; (3) reducing urban poverty; (4) investing in human capital; (5) strengthening social
protection for specific groups; and (6)guaranteeingthe sustainability of the strategy.

4.       The objective of "Social Protection for Specific Groups" (pillar 5) i s to improve the living
conditions of people inextreme poverty, particularly children, adolescents, senior citizens, women,
persons with disabilities and ethnic groups, inorder to enable their social integration anddevelopment
through equitable access to opportunities. The PRSPalso calls for programs and projects that support: (a)
socio-economic development of ethnic communities, and (b) ethnic and ecological tourism.

5.       Inorderto guaranteethesustainability ofthe strategy (pillar6),theGOHstressestheneedto
decentralize and strengthen local development. Through the Decentralization and Local Development
Program (PRODDEL), the GOHhas created an instrumentto implement this strategy, fostering the role
of communities, local governments and local service providers inthe economic and social development
processof the country.

6.       As part of this strategy, the GOHhas strengthened its efforts to address the persistentproblems
affecting the indigenous and Afro-Honduran peoples. It reactivatedthe National Cultural Council,
createdthe Office of the Special Prosecutionfor Ethnic and Cultural Heritage, and promoted a process of
sustainable human development through a variety of complementary programs and projects (see Annex
2). Other plannedpolicy measuresinclude the creation of the National Ethnic Council, which will define
a national agendato facilitate coordinationof the programs benefiting ethnic communities, and bring
national legislation in line with L O Convention 169 regarding indigenouspeoples, signed by Honduras,
so its provisionscan be enforced.




'The  extremepoor are those livingbelow the extremepoverty line, which is the cost of a food basket designed to
meet basic nutritional needs. According to the HondurasCAS (pg. 4), "All Poor" in2002 represented63.3 percent
of households and "Extremely Poor" 45.2 percentof households.
 ESA Consultores-Evaluacidn de ProyectoNuestrasRaices IV, Tegucigalpa, 2002.


                                                       1

2. Rationalefor Bank involvement

 7.      Duringthe Bank's Country AssistanceStrategy consultationsin2003, the GOHreiteratedits
commitment to improving the livingconditions of the country's most vulnerable groups, particularly the
ethnic communities, and askedthe Bank to continue its support to one of the most prominent and
 successful programs in this area, the NuestrusRuices (Our Roots) Program(NR),implementedby the
Honduras Social Investment Fund(FHIS).

 8.      Since 1995, FHIS has implemented the Nuestras Raices Programto address the specific needs of
ethnic communities. In 1997, the Bank was invitedto support the program. Duringits most recent phase
(2000-2002), the NR Program invested US$13.6 million under the Bank-financed FHIS V Project inover
4,650 small-scale subprojects benefiting about 125,500 families inHonduras' ethnic communities. The
proposed Nuestras Raices ProgramProject-self-standing         for the first time-willbuildon the strengths
of the previous phases and expand the program's coverage and impact. Through the NRProgram, the
GOHseeks the Bank's support inimplementingthe PRSP's SocialProtectionandSpecific Groups
pillar, and the GOH's efforts to strengthen local development, particularly of highly vulnerable, ethnic
communities.

9.       A recent ex-post evaluation of the NR Program, conducted by ESA Consultores, concluded
that the program was very successfulin meetingits objectives (see Annex 12). The report noted that NR
was highly effective intargeting its resourcesto benefit extremely poor communities and households.
Seventy-three percent of beneficiary households were found to belongto the bottom three income
categories (national average: 50 percent). Furthermore, the evaluation confirmed that the subprojects
representedthe priorities identifiedby the communities and the programpromoted gender equity, with
roughly equal male andfemale participation inthe ethnic groups.

 10.     The proposed operation will be processedas a "repeater project" due to the program's excellent
track record, the GOH's commitment to improving and expanding the program as part of the PRSP
implementation, and the Bank's experience with the program. Therefore, alternative programapproaches
were not considered. However, some important changes to the previous design of the NRProgramhave
been introducedand are described inthe following sections.

 11.     Other projects. The NRProgramis only one of the initiatives supported by the Bank in
Honduras to improve the socio-economic development of indigenous andAfro-Honduran communities.
Other Bank projects address complementary areas, such as landtitling, training of human resourcesin
health, disaster prevention and mitigation, sustainable tourism, bilingual and intercultural education, and
trainingat the IntibucgIndigenous Handcraft Center. However, these initiatives are not exclusively
directed to indigenous communities, but are designed as components of larger programs (See Annex 2 for
more detail).

12.      Other projects financed by the internationalcommunity targeting indigenous and Afro-Honduran
populations include the Inter-American Development Bank (1DB)-financed pilot project PAPIN(US$1.5
million IDB, US$l.3 million GOH, US$225,000 Canadian funds), which i s being implementedthrough
the Ministry of the Interior and Justice inpartnership with the ethnic federations. Components include:
ethno-engineering; indigenous law and gender; and monitoring and evaluation. A new IDBoperation
called REPEPINwill provide financing (US$lO.O million in a first phase) for institutional strengthening
of the ethnic federations, for productive activities benefitingethnic communities, and for improving
human development services in indigenous areas. It i s very complementary to the NRproject and will
finance institutional strengthening activities of the ethnic federations, human develop service delivery
interventions, and income generating projects (see Annex 2 for a list of relevant projects).




                                                       2

13.      Comparative advantage ofthe Bank's involvement. The Bank's long-term relationship with
FHIS and the indigenous andAfro-Honduran federations and their peoples through FHISProjects with
financing for NR (NR I1-US$6.4 million and NR IV - $13.6 million) exceeds that of other international
agencies and i s key to the successfulimplementation of the program. Basic rules between FHIS, the Bank
andthe ethnic federations on participationindecision-making, transparency and social auditing are well
established. This strong foundation andtrust among all parties allows the Bankto strengthen-through
new design features-the    democratic relationship between the federations and their respective
communities. Finally, due to the Bank's knowledgeof and FHIS' involvement with local governments, it
was possible to establish, as part of the new NR design, a link between local governments and ethnic
federations, which are historically competing forces.

3. Higher levelobjectivesto which the project contributes

14.      The proposed Nuestras Raices Project will contribute to the country's higher-level objective of
strengthening the social protection ofindigenous andAfro-Honduran communities by empowering
them to manage and implementtheir own projects to improvetheir living conditions with respect for their
ethnic identity. The project will provide ethnic communities with the opportunity to develop Strategic
Ethnic Development Plans that will complement andfeed into the Strategic MunicipalDevelopment
Plans (PlanesEstratkgicos de Desarrollo Municipal, PEDM),thus enablingthemto participate more
equitably inthe local development planningprocess.

15.      The Nuestras Raices Project also supports the higher-level objective of enhancing investment in
humanand socialcapital. The project will providetraining to ethnic communities, federations, local
facilitators and supervisors. Communities will be trained to formulate Strategic Ethnic Development
Plans, plan andexecute subprojects, and administer funds and materials conferred to their Project
Committees.

16.      The project will provide communities and groups of communities with the opportunity to
prioritize, design, manage, execute, monitor andevaluate subprojects that respond to urgent needs,
regardlessof project size. As an important indirect effect, it will create temporary local employment
opportunities for the participating communities and promote local contracting. It is expected that this
will contribute to reduced rural poverty and increased equity between urban and rural areas.

17.      The gender strategy of Nuestras Raices will continue to promoteequal opportunities for
women and men through contractual services, training opportunities, and the selection of projects
benefiting the most vulnerable segments of ethnic communities.

18.      The environmental sustainability strategy of the Nuestras Raices Project will promote
environmental awareness among beneficiaries, increase ethnic communities' knowledge about the
application of environmental guidelines and regulations (forestry, water and sanitation, etc.), and address
environmental issues duringproject implementationthrough mitigation and risk management measures
agreed with andcarriedout by beneficiaries.

19.      CAS objectives. The CAS objectives supported by the project are: (a) strengthening social
protection for specific vulnerable groups; (b) reducing rural poverty; and (c) enhancing investment in
human capital. The CAS states that a core strategic objective of pillar 5 of the PRSP is "to support Afro-
Honduranand indigenous groups to develop their communities, inpart through the Bank-supported
NuestrasRaicesPr~gram."~     This objective is entirely consistent with the overall CAS objective of



 Honduras: Country Assistance Strategy. Strengthening Social Protection for Specific Groups. Pg. 17


                                                      3

poverty reduction through addressingthe needs of one of most vulnerable groups as identifiedin the
PRSP.

B. PROJECTDESCRIPTION
1. Lendinginstrument

20.     The GOHhas requesteda Specific Investment Loan since this flexible instrument is most
appropriate for this type of project.

2. Project development objective andkey indicators

21.     The project development objective is that indigenous and Afro-Honduran groups have increased
participation inthe holistic development processes of their communities and their nation. This will be
achieved by strengthening the communities' local capacity to buildsustainable organizations,
development projects, and cultural identity. Progresstowards achieving this objective will be measured
against the"fo1lowing outcome indicators:

    0   At least 400 indigenous andAfro-Honduran Community DevelopmentPlans will be incorporated
        into Strategic Municipal Development Plans (PEDM).
    0   At least 5 institutionsfinance part of the nine Strategic Ethnic DevelopmentPlans.
    0   At least 50 municipalities will finance subprojects includedinthe Community Development
        Plans prepared by the indigenous and Afro-Honduran communities.
    0   At least40 percent of the project's beneficiaries are women.
    0   At least 70percent of the subprojectsfinanced will have sustainable maintenance systems in
        operation.
    0   At least 70percent of subprojects are implementedinaccordance with the establishedparameters
        of time, quality andbudget.
    0   Each of the 9 indigenous and Afro-Honduran peoples will have developed and implemented at
        least two cross-cutting subprojects that serve to strengthen the ethnic people as a whole (i.e.
        cultural, linguistic, historical).


22.     Semi-annual progress reports and an ex-post evaluation will measurethe degreeto which these
targets have been achieved.

3. Project components

23.     The proposed project has three components and will have a duration of three years (see Annex 4
for more details):

Component 1.Participatory Development Planningby Ethnic Group (US$0.49 million; IDA
US$0.46 millionequivalent).

24.     This component will support aprocessof participatory development planningamongthe
indigenous and Afro-Honduran communities and the federations in order to: (a) train andprepare ethnic
communities and their ethnic representationsto actively participate inthe local development planning
process; (b) identify subprojects to be financed under Nuestras Rakes and other programs; and (c)
encourage ethnic federations to work more closely with municipalities to leverage funds. Facilitators
trained by the NR unit will assist approximately 2,000 communities to carry out a participatory
community needs assessment andplanningprocess that will result in a Community Development Plan for



                                                     4

each community and a list of priority subprojects. The subprojects will be further prioritized in micro-
regional meetings and, subsequently, at the level of each ethnic group, usinga fixed set of selection
criteria (e.g. poverty, landtenure, significance). Eachof the nine ethnic groups will then prepare strategic
development plans outlining the vision, mission, and strategic goals for its membership over a three to
five year period. The development of the strategic plans will be ledby the ethnic federations, basedon an
agreedparticipatory and democratic methodology, and will use already existing plans as a startingpoint if
they are available. Aspects of these strategic development plans are expectedto feed into the national and
municipal development plans. Environmental and gender aspects will continue to be an integral part of
the planning methodology and will be addressedthrough the planningprocess.

Component 2. Grantsfor Subprojects(US$13.8 million; IDA US$13.3 million equivalent).

25.      This component will finance approximately 600-700 community-executed subprojects, each
averaging $20,000. Subprojects will only be financed ifthey have beenprioritized through the
participatory development planningprocess. The resources will be allocated proportionatelyamong the
nine ethnic groups, basedupon the 2001 census data, while guaranteeing a minimumallocation for the
five smallest ethnic groups. Projects will be executed by the ethnic communities, usinga Community
DrivenDevelopment (CDD) methodology, outlined inthe program's Operational Manual (Projectos
Ejecutadospor las ComunidadesIndigenasy Negras Hondureiias -PECINH) which addresses important
gender and environmental aspects. Project funds will be transferred directly to a community-based Project
ImplementationCommittee (PIC) with an elected leadership or, inthose cases where a committee already
exists, confirmed, by the entire community.

Component 3. Capacity Buildingand InstitutionalStrengthening(US$1.31million; IDA US$1.24
million equivalent).

26.      This component will finance capacity buildingof ethnic communities to leadtheir own
development process, institutional strengthening of the Nuestras Raices Unit,located within FHIS, and
monitoring andevaluation. The main capacity buildingactivities include training andtechnical assistance
to the communities inparticipatory development planning, project identification, planning,execution,
operation and maintenance, and funds and materials management.The Nuestras Raices Unit, as in
previous phases, will be responsible for managing the project. It will coordinate closely with the ethnic
federations, the community-level Project ImplementationCommittees (PICs), the locally-contracted
Subproject Formulators andCommunity Facilitators, and the FHIS-contractedSupervisors and
Inspectors. The NR Unit and the FHISEnvironmental Unit will closely coordinate the implementation of
the project's EnvironmentalAction Planensure that environmental safeguards are observed.

27.      The Operational Costsfor implementingthe project amount to US$ 1.1 millionand include
FHIS staff costs as well as recurrent costs for offices, mobilization, equipment etc.. These funds would be
provided as counterpart funds by the Government of Honduras. Inaddition, the Government of Honduras
would provide US$0.5 million for financing of grants for subprojects.

4. Lessonslearnedandreflectedinthe project design

28.      More Sustainable Subproject Investments.One of the findings of the ex-post evaluation was
that the subprojectscamed out by the ethnic groups showed insufficient sustainability, mainly since the
subproject paid only for labor costs and did not make funding available for materials or technical
assistance. The new NR Project will fundboth materials and labor. Subprojects are expected to average
$20,000 apiece, compared to less than $5,000 inpast phases. Inaddition, subproject proposals will
include plans for financing operations and maintenance costs.




                                                      5

29.        More Intensive and Ambitious Capacity-building at the Community Level. The ex-post
evaluation also found that the training provided to local facilitators was not effective inpenetrating down
to the working groups at the community-level, where it was most needed. For this project, since
communities will be directly involved inmanaging subproject resources,capacity-building efforts will be
 intensifiedat the community-level. Communities will have access to funds to contract training and
technical assistance support, both at the planning and implementation phases, in the form of a community
facilitator or technician relevant to the subproject type. Inaddition, well-trained FHIS supervisors will
 visit subprojects regularly to ensure that the capacity-building, including environmentaland gender
awareness, i s being translated into successfulproject managementby the Project Implementation
Committees at the community-level.

30.        Bridging the Growing Divide between EthnicFederations and Local Government.There
seems to be an increasing divide between the representativesof the ethnic federations and local
governments in some areas of the country. Previous phases of the NR Programwere carried out
independent of local officials, who were, in some cases, not even informed about project plans. For this
project, it was agreedthat the NR Program should complement not replace the local planning processes.
The revised project design takes this lessoninto account by making sure that the planningprocess
undertaken inthe ethnic communities i s compatible with the process carried out by the municipalities.
Further, it requires that the Ethnic Development Plans developed under the programbe shared with the
relevant local government authorities. It is hoped that these steps will help pave the way for increased
trust and collaborationbetween the ethnic communities and the municipal government structures, which
will lead to local governments incorporatingprojects and strategiesdefined through the ethnic planning
process into their own development plans.

31.       PromotingEthnic Unity. Inthe past, the NR Programworked with the ten ethnic federations of
the nineethnic groups. Duringrecent years, however, several new ethnic federations have been created,
totaling 14at present. Inorder to discourage further splintering of ethnic representations, it was agreed
with the federations that the NRProgramwould only admit participation of one representation per ethnic
group. Hence, nine representationsof the nine ethnic groups will participate inthe program, on behalf of
all the ethnic peoples of Honduras. Another measuredesigned to promote unity within each ethnic group
i s the allowance that up to 10percent of subproject funds may be used for activities designed to
strengthenthe ethnic group as a whole. Each ethnic group will identify these activities intheir strategic
development plan.

32.       Past Performance inSector. The NRProgramhas invested inthe social protection of all
indigenous and Afro-Honduran groups since 1995. Past performance of the NRcomponent of FHISI11
and IV Projects has beenrated as "Satisfactory" or "Highly Satisfactory." The 2002 OED evaluation
Results of SelectedWorld Bank Interventions on the Indigenous andAfro-Caribbean Populations in
Honduras, concluded that the NRProgramhad "provided substantial benefits to the IP(Indigenous
Peoples) communities throughout the country. Government commitment and IPownership are high,
makingthe sustainability of activities likely." Among OED's recommendations was the needto expand
the subproject menu to respond to a broader range of needs and to increase trainingto communities. Both
recommendations are reflectedinthe project design.

33.       Despite OED's favorable review of the NRProgram, it also noted that there i s a need to
improve coordination of the country's environmentaland indigenouspeoples' policies and regulations
with local governments and beneficiaries. Inresponseto this, the project intends to build on the
knowledge of existing municipal environmental unitsand involve them, as much as possible, during
project implementation, where needed. Recently, the GOHhas increased its support to municipal
environmental units, supported by its decentralization plan(PRODDEL).




                                                       6

5. Alternatives consideredand reasonsfor rejection

34.      Followingthe recommendations of the GOH, and given the results from the ex-post and OED
evaluations, the basic designof the NR Programwas preserved. Inaddition, as noted above, some
improvements were introduced to enhance sustainability of subprojects, accountability and harmonization
with local development efforts. Duringpreparation, consideration was given to two alternative design
options as below:

             Option 1 would disburse funds through the municipalities to the ethnic groups to reinforce
             decentralization efforts and strengthen local governments. This approach was proposed by the
             FHISMinister to the ethnic representationsand soundly vetoed, due to the negative
             experience in the NR Program phases Iand 11when municipalities administered the program
             funds. However, it was agreedthat the project would include seminarsand workshops to
             promote communication and synergies between ethnic federations and municipal
             governments to pave the roadfor futurejoint work and more active participation of ethnic
             groups inthe local development process.
         *   Option 2 would include a Financial Intermediation component to continue the promotion and
             creation of rural savings and credit mechanisms (cujus rurules) formedunder the Nuestras
             Rakes Programinprevious phases. However, it was agreed among the ethnic federations,
             FHIS, and the Bank to not include any "mandatory" savings and stop promotingthe creation
             of cujas rurales for the following reasons: (a) there is no legal framework in the country
             governing these cujus, (b) FHIS i s not the appropriate institution to carry on this work, and
             (c) the ethnic federations should not have a double function of being the political
             representation of the ethnic groups andmanagingcredit and savings funds. Any major effort
             to strengthen andbuildupthe cujus system would go beyond the project's comparative
             advantage. Instead, it was decided that FHIS would seek to engage other donors that are
             better suited to buildupthe cuju system, such as UNDP, which i s already supporting some
             ethnic federations on the topic. Specifically, UNDPwould support the consolidation of the
             cujus and assist them to establish a legal framework to regulate their operations.


C. IMPLEMENTATION

1. Partnershiparrangements

35.      Inthe past, the World Bank has beenthe major institution financing the NRProgram, apart from
the GOH, which providedcounterpart funds, andthe beneficiary communities' contributions. Other
partners haveparticipated including, the IDB, which providedfundingto NR (US$l.1million) to support
the creation of micro-enterprises managedby ethnic communities andUNDPhas engagedin activities to
strengthenthe most promisingof the approximately 3,500 cujus rurules financed duringearlier phases.

36.      The IDB i s currently preparing REPEPIN, a new project that will largely complement the
Nuestras Rakes Project (for more detail, see Annex 2). The IDB and World Bank task teams have been
coordinating closely inthe preparation of both operations, and will continue to do so duringproject
implementation, to ensurefull capitalization of expected synergies of both operations.

2. Institutional and implementationarrangements (for details see Annex 6)
37.      As inthe past, FHIS will be the implementing agency for the project. Overall responsibilityfor
this project will be with the Minister of FHIS and his staff. The Nuestras Rakes Unit will be responsible
for coordinating and supervising project activities, and working with the various departmentsof FHIS to
ensurethat the project evolves according to plan. The NR Unit will also be responsible for coordinating


                                                      7

and supervising project activities with different actors: nine ethnic representations, local community
facilitators, local technical assistanceproviders, FHIS supervisors and inspectors, and community-level
Project ImplementationCommittees. External experts will be contracted to audit and evaluate the
program.

38.      FHIS, which was createdby Law No. 12-90on February 22, 1990, has capital and administrative,
technical and financial autonomy. A Board of Directors chaired by the President of the Republic oversees
FHIS, which is ledby anExecutiveDirector, who hasthe rank of Minister.The NR Project is an integral
part of FHIS' efforts to introduce community execution of projects. The Operational Manualthat will be
used for the NRProgram i s very similar to the one usedfor all other subprojects implementedby
communities and has benefited from the NRunit's experience in working with communities and
transferring resourcesto them. Inthat respect, this new NR approach has contributedconsiderably to the
cohesion of FHIS' operations and modalities.

39.      Rationale.The institutional arrangements were selectedbasedon the experience with previous
phases of the NR Program andon FHIS's and the Bank's experience with CDD inHonduras and
elsewhere. FHIS has more than 10years of experience implementing donor-financed programs and
subprojects efficiently andeffectively. The institution's annual expenditures average between US$35-40
million, thus FHIS i s the second largest implementing agency inthe country, following the Ministry of
Transportation (SOPTRAVI). Financial managementand procurement units are well established and
respective Bankguidelines are being followed without difficulty. The Nuestras Raices Unithas very
experienced and motivated personnel. The NR component (US$13.0 million) under the FHIS V Project
was implemented within one-and-a-half years, demonstrating the capacity of FHIS andthe NR unit to
deliver efficiently andeffectively.

40.      Inorder to carry out the project, it was agreedthat FHISwould strengthen the NRunitby
recruiting membersto round out the team's skill base andprepare it to manage strategic development
planning activities (Component 1) and the more diverse and higher value subproject portfolio under
Component 2. Under the new community execution methodology, adequate training of the community-
basedProject Implementation Committees to cany out their subprojects will be key to successful
implementation. Community committees will be trained in project management and administration,
including accounting, procurement of goods and materials, contractingof services, environmental aspects,
maintenance, etc.

41.      Flow of Funds.FHIS' financial managementstaff has gained sufficient experience inIDA credit
disbursement procedures, both under "traditional" and FMR procedures. FHIS also has sufficient
knowledge on proceduresfor disbursingcounterpart funds and other external resources.

42.      Under the NuestrasRaices Project, funds for subprojects will be disbursed to communities to
implement subprojects. This procedure will be regulated through the project's OperationalManual, which
incorporates many of the experiences from other community-executed and FHIS-funded projects and
includes the principles inthe Bank's Reference Guide: Fiduciary Managementfor Community Driven
Development Projects (April 2002). Once a community subproject has been approved for funding, a
portion of the approvedbudget will be advancedby FHIS to the Project Implementation Committee, in
accordance with the subproject's disbursement plan. Subsequentdisbursements would be contingent upon
progress made in subproject implementationand acceptable resource management andreporting.

43.      Inorder to minimize delays inthe flow of funds to communities, FHIS will have access to a
Special Account of FHIS, which will be maintained at the Central Bank of Honduras, and funds may be
transferred to the localcurrency accounts managedby FHIS for further transfer to communities.
Furthermore, in maintainingthe operation of bank accounts under the FHIS V Project, it was agreed that



                                                      8

FHIS would be permitted to utilize the Special Account 30 day Advance Procedure (for more detail, see
Annex 7).

44.      Financial audits for the project and FHIS will be carried out annually by external auditors, as per
normal procedures with social fundprojects. FHIS' internal auditors will regularly audit a sample of
subprojects andanalyze the application of the Operational Manual's procedures.Finally, biannual
operational audits, carriedout by independent auditors, will audit communities' financial management,
subproject implementation, as well as supervision andFHISarchiving.

3. Monitoringandevaluation of outcomes/results
45.      Monitoringof project indicators in the Results Framework (Annex 3) will occur mainly through
FHIS's well established Management Information System (MIS) which hasjust been updated and
improvedconsiderably, and i s known to be of highquality. This systemwill be used to monitor Nuestras
Rakes project implementation, including subproject execution progress.The system will have the
capacity to generatereports that separate out the NR subprojects from the rest of FHIS portfolio, so that
timely information will be available for project monitoring. Inaddition, FHIS is inthe processof
revampingand adjusting its management reporting, basedon a revised set of key performance indicators.

46.      FHIS and the ethnic federations will also conductjoint site visits and meetings to review progress
inimplementingthe project, identify andaddress problems, and fine-tune the methodology to achieve
improved project outcomes.

47.      Duringthe last year of project implementation, anex-post evaluation will becarriedout,
comparing not only the results of the 2002 ex-post evaluation with the new results, but adding important
elementssuch as measuring social capital andthe effectiveness of the training and capacity building
activities at the community level and communities' linkages andrelationshipwith local govemments.

4. Sustainability

48.      BorrowerCommitment.The proposed Bank financing of this new operation respondsto a
request from the GOH duringthe Bank's CAS consultations in 2003. The GOH's request was, inpart,
motivated by demands from the ethnic representations for a continuationof the NR Program and also by
the very positive results of the ex-post evaluation of the program. Since the NR operation is embeddedin
the Government's implementationof the PRSP, it i s expected that ownership will continue to be highas
long as there i s commitment to the PRSPprocess. Inprevious FHIS operations, the borrower's
commitment to and ownership of the project has been rated `satisfactory' (see OED evaluation). The
recent FHIS IV ICR rates the implementationof the NR component as "highly satisfactory" which was
confirmedby OED.

49.      CriticalFactors.Sustainability will be enhancedat several levels:

         0    Subprojects. Inaddition to labor costs, the program will finance goods/materials and
              technical assistanceto ensure that projects are technically, environmentally and economically
              sound. Subproject plans will also be required to address long-term operations and
              maintenanceissues.

         0   Communities. Community members will be trained inmanagingand implementingthe entire
             subproject, including project accounting. They will be able to purchase technical assistanceas
             neededandreceive orientation for community development planningwhich will enable and
             empower them in the future to participate more effectively in local development planning




                                                       9

              processes. Communities will contribute incash andor in-kindto each subproject equivalent
              to 10percent of the subproject value.

              IndigenousFederations.The ethnic federations will be trained and guided inparticipatory
               strategic planning, which will provide them with a useful tool for future activities and
              planning exercises. They will also gain experience indelivering project-related services that
              benefit the communities they represent.

50.      For the first time, the NR Program goes beyondthe implementationof subprojects by: (a)
supporting communities andtheir ethnic representationsinpreparingethnic development plans that will
define priorities and engage them inthe local development planningprocesses; (b) supporting training
andtechnical assistanceactivities to strengthenthe community-based organizations directly to planand
implement projects; and (c) financing entire subprojects, notjust the unskilled labor component.


5. Critical risks andpossible controversial aspects




51.      Ethnic federations and local governments. Nuestras Raices i s definedas a programfor and run
by the autochthonous peoples of Honduras and ownership of the program i s very highamong ethnic
groups. The goal of bringingethnic groups closer to local governments (particularly through the strategic
planning process) mightnot be easy to achieve given the resistance of ethnic groups and their
representationsto work with local governments. This historical hesitance, which i s found in many
countries, i s no doubt, inpart, the result of badexperiences, including duringprevious phases of the NR
Program, when the municipal governments controlled and, in some cases, usedthe NRresourcesfor other
purposes. The ethnic federations' hesitanceto collaborating with local government may also relate to
political concerns about losing their influence and legitimacy achieved through the involvement with the
project. Nonetheless, the ethnic federations have agreed to share the Ethnic Development Plansthey
prepare with the relevant local government officials (and others). Likewise, ethnic communities will share
their Community Development Plans with their respective local government authorities and others. To
facilitate this process, the program is shaping the planningprocess and format to matchthat of the
municipalplanningprocess. There i s a risk that a lack of responsiveness on the part of municipal
governments will undermine the project's goal of increasingcollaboration between the ethnic


                                                      10

communitiesand local government authorities. FHIS has therefore intensified its communication with
local governments about the NR Program and will serve as a facilitator between the two groups, building
on its exhaustive work with local governments.

The major risks that may affect the components are:

52.      The proliferationof new ethnic federations. This reflects increasing divisions andcontroversies
within ethnic groups. The participatory planningexercise for each ethnic group i s intended to counteract
suchtendencies. While, in principle, the ethnic federations have acceptedthe idea that each ethnic group
mustpresentaunified front when dealingwith the NRProgram, inreality, some difficulties may ariseas
they work through the details of a sharedEthnic Development Plan with competing federations.
Nonetheless, FHIS and the NR team have gained the trust and respect of the federations' leadership,
which has madeit possible to work with the federations to resolve conflicts diplomatically inthe past and
will continue to serve them well inthis new phase.

53.      Increased complexity of subprojects. Inprevious phases of the NR Program, financingto
communities was only provided for unskilled labor costs, and consequently, the subprojects financed
were technically simple and easy to implementbasedon the knowledgeof each indigenous group. The
proposed operation i s more demandingin that it intends to create more sustainableprojects, which will
involve the introduction of new subproject types, new technologies, andnew procedures and rules
(project accounting, external audits, etc.). These new, more complex subprojects will not only require that
communities learn how to manage cash and material resources, but also to develop and implement
realistic plans for covering the recurrent operating and maintenance costs. The ethnic federations are very
positive about this new approach and do not foresee any difficulties. To minimize this risk, the project
will clearly communicate the new approach to ethnic communities duringthe planningphaseand invest
heavily inbuildingcapacity at the community level to ensure that targeted communities have the skills
requiredto successfully implement, operate, and maintain these more complex subprojects.

54.      Quality of Training. The success of the subprojects depends on the quality of training received
by the communities andProject ImplementationCommittees at the community-level. This, inturn,
dependsupon the project's success indevelopinga roster of qualified community facilitators and
technically skilled specialists who are able to work in a culturally sensitive way with ethnic communities.
Identifying qualified individuals and organizations to deliver training and technical assistancei s often a
challenge. To mitigate this risk, the project includes resourcesto finance training of trainers as well as
training of communities, which should enhancethe consistency of training content and quality across
sites.

55.      PossibleControversial Aspects. The project supports one of the most disadvantaged population
groups of the one of the poorest countries inthe Latin America region. The highprofile of the NR
Programinthe country, andthe highexpectations, particularly among ethnic federations pose a risk for
the Bank, particularly ifconflicts among the ethnic federations or between the federations and local
governments intensify. Inthe past, the NR Programwas carried out in parallel with the existing local
development process.Now, the NR Programis designed to contribute to an increased integration of
ethnic communities and local governments. This has already raised concerns among some representatives
of ethnic federations who see this integration as a risk to their own status andthe social movement that
they represent.




                                                      11

6. Credit conditions and covenants

56.     There are four effectiveness conditions:
        a) that the Subsidiary Agreement has beenenteredinto between the Borrower andFHIS;
        b) that the Operational Manual, including an operating plan for the first year of Project
             implementation and a detailed procurement plan satisfactory to the Association, has been
             adopted and put into effect and the standard forms set forth in the Operational Manual are
             integratedinto MIS;

        c) that the financial auditors have beenproperly appointed; and
        d) that the guidelines for usingthe FHIS' contractors database have beenapproved by the
             Association.

D. APPRAISAL SUMMARY

1. Economicandfinancialanalysis

57.     The Nuestras Raices Project includes "framework" type subprojects, in which most of the major
investments are not identified  or designed before effectiveness; rather, what i s appraised ex-ante i s the
mechanismfor delivering the outputs. Becauseof the demand-driven nature of this project, the specific
social rate of return cannot be known ex-ante. The economic analysis assessesthe mechanisms and
methodology inplace to ensurethat the subprojects implementedare part of a macro strategic
development plan, which reflects the vision and needs of each one of the nine ethnic groups inHonduras.

58.     The financial analysis shows that fiscal implicationsduringand after implementationare
expected to be manageableand in general, no recurrent cost increasesare expected for the public sector.
Operations and maintenance costs areexpected to be borne largely by communities in accordance with
the subproject maintenanceplans agreedwith the beneficiaries before subproject implementation(see
Annex 9 for more details).

2. Technical

59.     FHIShas developed technical criteria for eachsubproject type, basedon existingnorms from the
respective public agencies to ensuretechnical coherenceandcompatibility. These norms have been
incorporated into FHIS's Operational Manuals and complementary guidelines. Technical appraisal for NR
subprojects would follow this logic andbe undertaken by the FHIS Evaluation Department, which has
qualifiedand experienced staff. Supervision of subproject implementationwould be carriedout
intensively to ensurethat supervisors can advise communities in a timely manner. The supervisors will be
trained specifically on socially, technically andculturally appropriate ways of working with ethnic
communities.

3. Fiduciary

60.     Financial Management (see Annex 7 for more details). The Country Financial Accountability
Assessment (CFAA) was conducted in 2003 and the GOHi s currently finalizing the proposed action plan.
The diagnostic work concluded that the quality of budget reportingby decentralized and deconcentrated
agencies was inneedof improvement. The country specific risk has been assessedas high due the
identified structural weaknesses inthe public financial management system, in spite of a generally sound
and complete legal and governingframework for public financial management. The government has taken



                                                     12

 active measuresto improve transparency and governance, and once these actions are completed, it i s
expected that the specific risk assessment would be mitigated.

61.       FHIS's experience with previous andcurrent IDA and other agency-financed projects has allowed
it to develop a sound financial managementsystem to meet the Bank's minimumrequirements. The NR
unit will rely on the existing financial managementdepartment within FHIS to handle all aspects of
financial management andreporting. This department i s experienced inimplementingand managing
Bank-financedprojects.

62.      The project will advancethe majority of financing to communitiesfor community-led
development. However, many communities have limited financial managementexperience. Thus, the
project will invest heavily in buildingcapacity at the community-level. FHIS has the appropriate
personnel, a sound Operational Manual for community-executed projects, as well as an excellent
managementinformation systemto supervisecommunity financial managementcarefully.

63.      Procurement. Bank-financed works, goods and consulting services will be procured in
accordancewith World Bankprocedures. Project activities and procurement contracts not financed by the
Bank would be procuredinaccordance with nationalregulation. The project inputs, estimated costs and
procurement methods are summarized inTable A and A1 of Annex 8.

64.      FHIS Will have responsibility for overall procurement management and will ensure that
procurement procedures, criteria and documentation agreedwith the Bankare satisfactorily complied
with, including procurement under subprojects implementedby the ethnic communities. Grant
agreements betweenFHIS and the communities would stipulate these procurement responsibilities and
procedures. FHIS i s staffed with a procurement department supported by procurement assistantsanda
new director i s currently inthe process of being hired.

65.      A Procurement Planhasbeenagreedfor the project. The Planwill beupdatedevery six months to
reflect progress andchanges inprocurement processes.Any revisionshpdates inthe Procurement Plan
would be agreed with the Bankprior to its implementation. The procedures usedfor each type of
procurement would be consistent with those described inthe Credit Agreement and inthe PAD as well as
with the stipulations of the Operational Manual.

66.      All subprojects financed under the project will be community-executed and be procured under the
Bank's "Community Participation" modality to allow for the participation of local communities, increase
the utilization of local know-how and employ labor-intensive and other appropriate technologies, as stated
inparagraph 3.15 of the Procurement Guidelines. The grant amounts areestimated at under US$50,000
equivalent. Any subproject over US$lOO,OOO would be subject to special approval by IDA. Other
procurement modalities (for works, goods, etc.) are described inAnnex 8.

4. Social
67.      The ethnic populations of Honduras have traditionally been marginalizedfrom mainstream
Honduran society-they      have been under-represented inpolitical institutions and, inturn, receive less
than their fair share of public resources. One of the reasons the NR Programwas created was the
perception that ethnic communities were not benefiting equally from public resources. Initially, the
resources set aside for the NRProgramwere channeled through the mayors' offices. However, the ethnic
federations, who had begun to play an increasingly active role indefending the rights of the ethnic
communities, complained that this approach was not working. Inresponse, FHIS, in agreement with the
Bank,beganchanneling project funds directly to ethnic communitiesduringthe last two FHIS projects.
The proposed operation will continue to channel funds directly to the ethnic communities, but in parallel
it will seek to reconstruct the linksbetween the ethnic communities and local governments inthe hopes


                                                      13

that, inthe future, these communities will have the skills and the authority to negotiate their fair share in
the municipal planningprocess.

68.      Some of the most important social issuesare:

             Differential access toproject benefits. The NRproject resources are earmarked for
              Honduras' ethnic communities, which suffer from much higher levels of poverty than non-
              ethnic communities, due to centuries of social and economic marginalization.
         9   Adequacy of Targeting and Delivery Mechanisms. Resourceswill be allocated among the
              ethnic groups basedupon the 2001censusfigures. Very small ethnic groups will receive
              slightly more than their share to ensurethat they have enough fundingto implement at least a
              few subprojects. Funds will be allocated to ethnic communities within an ethnic group,
              through a democratic subproject prioritizationprocessdescribed in detail inAnnex 4.

69.      Stakeholder Participation. The NR Programhas beencharacterized by a highly participatory
approach duringall of its phases andfor its respect for cultural heritage. Decisions on all aspects of the
program were madejointly among representations of the nine ethnic groups, FHIS, and the Bank. During
the project preparation process, FHIS andthe Bank organized sevenplanningmeetings with the ethnic
federations to ensure active involvement inthe design of the project. These sessions helped identify the
modifications requiredinthis new phase andestablish the project objectives and components, the
Logframe, and the Operating Manual.

70.      The gender4roles andresponsibilities inethnic groups inHonduras are culturally specific andthe
participationof men and women differs from one ethnic group to another. Since the overall objective of
the NR Program i s to increase participation of the ethnic groups and their access to resources, it i s
important to incorporate gender equity into the approach. Since its inception, the NR Programhas had a
gender focus. Results from the ex-post evaluation showed 43 percent of women's participation in the
general coverageof beneficiarie~.~     Buildingon prior gender practice inthe programand inconsultation
with the ethnic groups, the NRteam developed a gender strategy6(see Annex 10). NR training programs,
methodologies, and materials systematically incorporate gender to ensure that it i s addressedthroughout
the project cycle. The Operational Manual determines the following measuresto ensure equal
participationof men and women throughout the project cycle: (i)           At least 40 percent of the participants in
the community assembly that approves the community development plan must be women; (ii) least 25            at
percent of subprojects must cater directly to women; (iii) project execution committee must include at
                                                                 the
least 40 percent women, (iv) 50percent of payments for labor must be given to women; (v) equal
"wages" must be paid for men and women; and (vi) supervisors must interview at least 50 percent women
when they visit aproject.
Equally, the monitoring and evaluation systemfor the project includes gender-specific indicators to



  While sex refers to the biological state of being male or female, gender refers to the social state of being a man or
woman. Gender i s a variable -like class, ethnicity, nationality, and religion-used to "identify and measure
differences inthe roles o f men and women, the activities they undertake, the responsibilities they have, the
opportunities and constraints they face, and ultimately, their well-being. Gender is dynamic becausemen's and
women's roles - as dictated by changing social and cultural norms and values - also vary over time'. Moser, C.,
Tomqvist, A., vanBronkhorst,B.1998.MainstreamingGender andDeveloDmentinthe World Bank. ProQressand
Recommendations. The WorldBank. ESSD,WashingtonD.C.
 ESA Consultores, "Evaluacibn del Programa "Nuestras Rakes" -Etapa IV (January 2003).
 The gender strategy was developed incollaboration with PROGENIAL, the "Program for Gender Mainstreaming
inWorld Bank-financed Projects in Central America" which was created by the World Bank`s LatinAmerica region
in2000.



                                                          14

document changes over time. Finally, the NR team inFHIS will continue to include a gender specialist to
ensure that gender is implemented throughout the project cycle.

71.      Monitoringand Evaluation. The project will monitor the achievement of targets to measurethe
success of the project in integratingethnic communities into the mainstreamHonduran society (see
Annex 3). FHIS Supervisors will collect this data on an ongoing basis duringtheir project monitoring
activities. The final impact evaluation will also review this data for a randomly selectedsample of
beneficiarycommunities.

5. Environment

72.      The Nuestras RaicesProject will promote environmental awareness among beneficiaries, increase
ethnic communities' knowledge about the application of environmental guidelines and regulations
(forestry, water and sanitation, etc.), and address environmental issuesduringproject implementation
through mitigation and risk managementmeasures agreed with and carried out by beneficiaries. Inthe
planned participatory development planningprocess (Component l),                 environmentalaspects will carefully
be taken into account and awareness on environmental issues will be raised inethnic communities.

6. Safeguard policies

  Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project                                            Yes                     No
  Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP4.01)                                                [XI                     [ I
  Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)                                                          [ I                     [ I
  Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                                              [ I                     [ I
  Cultural Property (OPN 1I.03, beingrevised as OP4.11)                                  E   l                   [ I
  Involuntary Resettlement (OPBP 4.12)                                                   [ I                     [ I
  Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20, beingrevised as OP 4.10)                                  [XI                     [ I
  Forests (OP/BP 4.36)                                                                   [ I                     [ I
  Safety of Dams (OP/BP4.37)                                                             [ I                     [ I
  Projects inDisputed Areas (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*                                             [ I                     [ I
  Projects on InternationalWaterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)                                     [ I                     [ I

73.      The project i s classified as Category B for Environmental Assessment since small-scale
infrastructure subprojects in sensitive areas will need to be environmentally assessed. The safeguard
screening i s Sf since the project i s a social fund and involves CDD. The project, through its Operational
Manual, has made appropriate provisions to address the environmental aspectsof project implementation.
The project cycle includes all the necessaryprovisions to ensure that subprojects are carried out inan
environmentally sound way. Training modules designed to support communities and other involved
actors (supervisors, community facilitators, etc.) include environmental aspects.FHIS has presented an
EnvironmentalAssessmentfor the project. The NRunit i s working with the FHIS's environmentalunit to
ensure that FHIS's environmental standards are appliedto the NRProject.

74.      The NR Project i s targeted entirely to indigenous and Afro-Honduran peoples, therefore the
project itself i s considered to be an Indigenous Peoples Development Plan (JPDP) consistent with the
O.D. 4.20 (or the revised O.D. 4.10).




* By supporting theproposedproject, the Bank does not intend toprejudice thefinal determination of theparties' claims on the
disputedareas


                                                            15

7. Policy ExceptionsandReadiness

75.    The proposed operation i s ready for implementation basedon the followingcriteria: (a) financial
managementand procurement arrangements are inplace; (b) the NR Uniti s inplace; (c) counterpart
funds are inthe budget for this fiscal year; (d) the Procurement Plan hasbeenprepared andreviewedby
the Bank; (e) all disclosure requirements are met; and (f)monitoringand evaluation systems are inplace
and have been reviewed by the Bank.


                                                                         ,-


                                                                                               A.
                                                                         Jane Armitage
Team Leader                                                              CountryManager




                                                     16

                           Annex 1: Country and Sector or Program Background
                                   HONDURAS: Nuestras Raices Program

 1.      Honduras i s one of the poorest countries in LatinAmerica and is characterized by a highdegree
of income disparity. With a per capita GNIof US$920 in 2002, the country is the thirdpoorest inLatin
America. Given its highincome inequality (the national Gini coefficient is 0.6), poverty i s widespread.
Nearly two-thirds of the populationi s poor and nearly half i s extremely poor.7To be able to approachthe
MillenniumDevelopment Goal (MDG) of cuttingextreme poverty inhalf by 2015, Honduras will have to
grow substantially faster than its historic growth performance, which has been among the least dynamic in
Latin and Central America. Growth will not be enough given the unequal distribution of assets inthe
country. More equitable and inclusivegrowth will be necessaryto reduce extreme poverty.




               EthnicGroup              Population2001CensusData Percentof Total Ethnic
                                                                         Population
               Lenca                                         279,507                  62

               ToluDan                                          9.617                 2

               Pech                                             3,848                  1

               Chorti                                          34,453                 8

               Garifuna                                        46,448                 10

               English-speaking                                12,370                 3
               Black

               Miskito                                         51,607                 11

               Tawahka                                          2,463                  1

'The"extremely   poor" are those living below the extreme poverty line, which is the cost o f a food basket designed
to meet basic nutritional needs. According to the Honduras CAS (pg. 4), "All Poor" in 2002 represented 63.3
percent of Honduran households and "extremely poor" 45.2 percent of households.
'ESA  Consultores -Evaluaci6n de Proyecto Nuestras Raices IV, Tegucigalpa, 2002.


                                                        17

Ethnic Group   Population 2001 CensusData  Percent of Total Ethnic
                                           Population

Nahoas                                   *            *
TOTAL                              440,313




                             18

equitable access to opportunities. The proposed NuestrasRaices Project will provide participating
communities with the opportunity to prioritize cost-effective projects likely to solve the most urgent needs
affecting the above-mentioned groups. Moreover, the nine ethnic groups will have the opportunity to
select cross-cutting (horizontal) projects that respond to cultural, patrimonial, legal, environmental, or
gender problems affecting the entire ethnicity.
9.       Inorder to guaranteethesustainability ofthe strategy(pillar6), theGOHstressestheneedto
decentralize and strengthen local development, such i s with the "Decentralization and Local
Development Program (PRODDEL)." Inthe same spirit, NRdecentralizes project managementto the
Project ImplementingCommittees selectedby the beneficiary community to representit inthe
administrationand managementof projects at the local level. The participation of ethnic communities in
the local development planning process will further train communities to manage and implement their
own projects thus improving their living conditions while preserving their identity. To accomplish this
objective, the proposed project will seek opportunities to improve communications and restoretrust
between federations and local governments, andbetween ethnic communities andmunicipal authorities.
Since 1997, NR i s the programthat has createdthe platform of cooperation between the ethnic federations
andthe government of Honduras. Other projects anddonors follow the same successful strategy.
10.      The PRSPrefers to the limited capacity of local governments and communities for carrying out
participatory planning, managing and monitoringprojects. Nuestras Raices' substantial contribution to
reversethat situation will be the capacity buildingof 2,000 ethnic communitiesto carry out participatory
planning, 600-700 of which will be implementingtheir own projects with the assistanceof aFacilitator, a
social auditor, and contractors hired by the community itself.
11.      The NuestrasRaices Project supports the higher-level PRSP objective of enhancing investment
inhumanandsocial capital. The backbone of Nuestras Raices is the formation of human and social
capital to promote self-development and cultural identity. The project will seek to strengthen the
relationshipof ethnic groups with local governments. It will promote synergies with other Ministries, i.e.
Education, Health, Tourism, Interior and Justice, to capitalize onjoint efforts to achieve CAS objectives.
Finally, an MIS system, which buildson the M&Esystem used for the PRSP, will be implemented as a
participatory tool for financial and social auditing of the project.
12.      The PRSPcomments on the lack of income-generating opportunities among ethnic peoples. To
contribute to solve that problem, an important benefit of the project i s the creation of local temporary
employment opportunities for the participating communities. The Project Implementation Committee
selectedby the community will be responsible for managing the subproject and for contractingtechnical
assistance as needed. An open project menu with a standard negative list will provide ample opportunities
to satisfy their priority needs. It i s expected that this will contribute to reduce the gap betweenurbanand
rural poverty, andincreaseequity between those areas. Inthe past, as the CAS points out, income
inequality betweenurban andrural areas increasedby 3 percentage points nationally from 1991to 1999.
13.      The Ministry of Interior and Justice i s responsible for coordinatingpolicies andprojects related to
political, cultural and socio-economic development of ethnic groups. As part of the Government's
strategy to addressthe persistent problems affecting the indigenous and Afro-Honduran peoples,it
has createdthe Office of the Special Prosecution for Ethnic and Cultural Heritage(Fiscalia de Etnias),
andthe NationalEthnic Council (Consejo Nacional Indigena or CNI). The latter would define a national
agendato facilitate coordinationof programs and projects benefiting ethnic communities, and bringing
national legislation in line with the L O Convention 169 regarding indigenous people. The Nuestras
Raices Project will also coordinate an institutional strengthening planfor the ethnic representations and
project collaborators with the Ministry of Interior and Justice. Likewise, as inprevious phases, it will
continue to coordinate closely with the Fiscalia de Etnias.




                                                         19

Contribution to CAS Objectives
 14.     The project is consistent with the 2003 Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) objectives, basedon
the October 2001 PRSP. The CAS objectives supportedby the project are (i)          strengthening social
protection for specific vulnerable groups, (ii) reducing rural poverty, and (iii)  enhancing investment in
humancapital. The CAS statesthat acore strategicobjective of pillar5 of the PRSPis "to support Afro-
Honduranandindigenous groups to develop their communities, inpart through the Bank-supported
"Nuestras Raices" program."' This objective is entirely consistent with the overall CAS objective of
poverty reduction through addressingthe needs of the ethnic communities, one of the most vulnerable
groups as identified inthe PRSP.
15.      As inprevious NRPrograms, one of the maincontributions of the new project will bethe
enhancedinvestment inphysical, social and human capital of ethnic communities and their
representations. With the full participationof men, women, elders and youths, the Nuestras Rakes Project
will facilitate the establishment of approximately 2,000 community development plans which will be
consolidated into regional plans to be merged finally into nine culturally-appropriate Strategic Ethnic
Development Plans. The latter will include cross-cutting issues (education, health, environment, land
tenure, gender) affecting the entire ethnic group, as well as individual community development plans.
16.      According to the CAS, female-headedhouseholdshave per capita incomes that are 15 to 30
percent lower than male-headedhouseholds, suggestinglower humancapital and asset ownership of
women. The gender strategy of NR will continue to promote equal opportunities for women and men
through contractual services, trainingopportunities, and the selection of projects benefitingthe most
vulnerable segments of ethnic communities.
Rationale for Bank Involvement
17.      Duringthe CAS consultations in2003, the GOHexpressedinterest inreceiving aWorld Bank
Credit to continue financing the Nuestras Rakes Program. Given the proven success of the programand
its compatibility with the country's development goals, the Bank agreedto finance the proposed US$lO.O
million operation as a self-standing project.
18.      Since 1995, the Honduras Social Investment Fund(FHIS) has implementedthe Nuestras Raices
Programto address the specific needs of ethnic communities. In 1997, the Bankwas invited to support the
program. Until 1999, the focus of NR was on community-based constructionand maintenance of rural
access roads, pathways, and navigationcanals. Duringits most recent phase (2000-2002), the NR
Program invested US$13.6 millionunder the FHIS V project for over 4,650 small-scale projects
benefiting roughly 125,500 families living in Honduras' ethnic communities. Projects duringthis phase
includedthe construction and maintenance of roads, social infrastructure, housingrehabilitation aimed at
the eradication of the `chagas' disease, potable water, and, ina few cases, productive andcultural
activities andtourism. A considerable portion of the credit funds was invested in the training of
community facilitators, FHIS and ethnic liaisons, institutional strengthening of the ethnic federations,
toolkits for the communities, and monitoring and Cvaluation activities.
19.      The Nuestras Raices' methodologyinprevious phases was relatively simple. The program
worked through the ethnic federations to organize groups at the community level. Each group identified a
community project it wished to implement basedon its priorities. Most of the projects selectedwere labor
intensive, since the programonly provided funds to cover labor costs. Each member of the group was
paid for 15 days of labor, part of which was usedto strengthen an existing community-based savings and
credit groups (caju rural) or to open a new one. The trainingand technical assistance delivered to the
community groups were designed to stimulate the formation of cajas rurales. Approximately 3,000 cajas
were createdand/or strengthenedwith previous Nuestras Raices Programs implementedby FHIS since
1995.


 Honduras: Country Assistance Strategy. Strengthening Social Protection for Specific Groups. Pg. 17.


                                                      20

20.      The ex-postevaluationof the NRProgram, conducted by ESA Consultores in 2002, concluded
that the program was very successfulin meeting its objectives (for more details, see Annex 12). The
proposed project builds on the results and recommendations of this evaluation, as well as on the
experience with the previous programs. The operation intends to take NR from a social assistance
approach (cash payments for work) to a development orientation. Changesto the former concept include:
             the introduction of a participatory planningprocess with each ethnic group, which will feed
             into the municipal planningprocess presently underway inthe country;

         9   the financing of more complex subprojects (CDD) to be executedby the communities;
         .
         9   the introduction of a community-based accounting systemfor each subproject; and
             strengthening ethnic federations in a new role as service providers.
21.      These changes are designedto achieve greatersustainability of the investments on several levels:
             Subprojects: Inadditionto labor costs, the programwill finance gooddmaterials and
             technical assistance to ensure that projects are technically, environmentally and economically
         .   sound.
             Communities:Community memberswill betrainedto manageand implement the entire
             project, including project accounting. They will be able to purchasetechnical assistanceas
             needed andreceive orientation on strategic community planning, which will enable and
             empower them inthe future to participate more effectively in local development planning
         .   processes.
             IndigenousFederations:The ethnic federations will be trained andguidedinparticipatory
             strategic planning, which will provide them with a usefultool for future activities and
             planning exercises.
22.     The Bank`s long-termrelationshipwith FHIS andthe indigenous and Afro-Honduran federations
and their peoples through previous FHIS Projects exceeds that of other internationalagencies and i s key
to the successful implementation of the program. Basic rules between FHIS, the Bank and the ethnic
federations on participationindecision-making, transparency and social auditing are well established.
This strong foundation andtrust among all parties allows the Bank to strengthen-through new design
features-the   democratic relationship betweenthe federations andtheir respective communities. Finally,
due to the Bank's knowledge of andFHIS' involvement with local governments, it was possible to
establish, as part of the new NR design, a linkbetween local governments and ethnic federations, which
historically have been competing forces.




                                                     21

             Annex 2: Major RelatedProjects Financed by the Bankandor other Agencies
                                  HONDURAS: NuestrasRaicesProgram

1.      The Nuestras RaicesProject is one of severalinitiatives supported by the Bank to improvethe
socio-economic development of indigenous and Afro-Honduran communities. Other Bank projects
address complementary areas, such as landmanagementand administration, health reform, road
construction and improvement, sustainabletourism, community-based education, etc. The Nuestras
Raices project i s part of an agendathat also includes projects such as:

Related Projects sup orted by the WorldBank      G
ProjectName                                         DO/IP    Sector Issue
                                                    Ratings
Fourth Social                                       ICR      Continuation of the successful FHIS Program,
Investment Fund                                     Rating   with supplemental financing for addressing needs
Project                                             S,       from Hurricane Mitch
                                                    confir
                                                    med by
                                                    OED
Community-based            US$41.5 M   IDA          DO-S     Improve quality o f preschool and basic education
EducationProject                                    IP-s     inrural areas. Intercultural Bilingual Education.
(34970-HO)                                                   Continue collaboration of FHIS and
                                                             PRONEEAAH-EIB at Ministrv of Education.
FifthSocial                                         DO-S     Increase access to small-scale social and
Investment Fund                                     IP-s     economic infrastructure.
(34430-HO)                                                   Municipal decentralization/ CDD.
Health System                                       DO-S     Reform o f Health System. Component 2 provides
ReformProject                                       IP-s     opportunity to submit health proposals.
(36400-HO)
LandAdministration
Program                                                      provide users with accurate information on
(PO55991)                                                     arcels and land administration services.
Mesoamerican               US$12.22 M  GEF
Barrier Reef System
(Mult-27739)
Regional                                           DO-S      Sustainable tourism development based on the
                          ~


Development of                                     IP-S      cultural and natural patrimony o f the Copan
Cop611 Valley                                                Valley and surroundings through the Honduras
(37640-HO)                                                   Institute o f Tourism.
Road Reconstruction                                DO-S      Restore roads damaged by Hurricane Mitch.
and Improvement                                    IP-s
(34320-HO)
Rural Land                                         DO-S      Demarcation, cadastre, census of territories.
Management Project                                 IP-S      Benefited indigenous territories belonging to 23
-PUR                                                         Tolupan tribes. Training on landrights done for
(02940-HO)                                                   Pech in Colon and Olancho.

Sustainable Coastal                                DO-S      Develop and manage sustainable coastal tourism
Tourism Project                                    IP-s      along North Coast mainland and offshore Bay
(35581-HO)                                                   islands through learningiparticipatory process.
Trade Facilitation and    US$32.31 M I IDA         DO-S      Increase productivity of Honduran private sector
Productivity                                       IP-s      comuetitiveness.




                                                     22

Relatedprojects by other international agencies include:

2.       The Inter-AmericanDevelopmentBank(IDB).Inthe pastthree years, IDBhas funded
interventions as part of the Poverty Reduction Strategy that are complementary to Nuestras Raices. In
2003, the IDB-funded NuestrasRaicesMicro-Enterprises Project was successfully implementedby FHIS.
The IDB-funded "Programa de Apoyo para Pueblos Indigenas y Negros" (PAPIN, US$1.5 million IDB,
US$1.3 million GOH, US$225,000 Canadianfunds) is being implemented through the Ministry of the
Interior and Justice.

3.       Inaddition, theIDBiscurrently preparingthe"Programa deReducciQ delaPobrezaEnfocadaa
Pueblos Indigenas y Negros" (REPEPIN). An important objective of this project i s to support the
Indigenous National Council whose role i s to coordinate all activities pertaining to indigenous and Afro-
Honduranpeoples inthe country. The Ministry of the Interior andJustice i s the government counterpart
andethnic federations are participatinginthe preparationof the operation. The project will consist of two
phases, one for US$lO.O million (2005-2007), and a possible secondphase of US$20.0 million (2008-
2010). Three main components are: (1) Institutional Strengthening of indigenous organizations (local,
regionalandnational level) and related Government Agencies; (2) implementationof projects designed to
increaseproductivity and family income; (3) promotion of humandevelopment through interventions in
health, education, and communications. The components of this project complement and enhancethe
Nuestras Raices Project and both task teams are coordinatingproject preparation to achieve optimal
synergies.




                                                    23

                             Annex 3: ResultsFramework and Monitoring
                                HONDURAS: Nuestras RakesProgram

                                              ResultsFramework
                                     Outcome Indicators                    Use of Outcome Information
                               At least 400 Ethnic Community        Ifthis target is not achieved, it will indicate
Honduran groups have           Development Plans will be            that the municipal governments continue to
increasedparticipation in the  incorporated into Municipal          pay little attention to ethnic communities, not
holistic development           Development Plans.                   giving them equal access to public resources.
processeso f their                                                  To minimize this risk, the F'HIS/NR team will
communities and their nation.  At least 5 institutions finance part need to encourage dialogue between the
                               of the nine Strategic Ethnic         mayors of the participating municipalities, the
                              Development Plans.                    relevant sectoral ministries and the
                                                                    representations o f the ethnic groups to
                              At least 50 municipalities will       promote a more cooperative relationship.
                              finance subprojects included in
                              the Community Development
                              Plans prepared by the indigenous
                              and Afro-Honduran communities.

                              At least 40 percent of the project's
                              beneficiaries are women.

                              At least 70percent of the             Ifnot achieved within six months of
                              subprojects financed will have        subproject completion, it will indicate that
                              sustainable maintenance systems       there were serious flaws in the subproject
                              inoperation.                          design and process. Furthermore, it will
                                                                    suggest the need to redesign the training
                              At least 70percent of subprojects     module on subproject operations and
                              are implemented in accordance         maintenance and improve the quality of the
                              with the established parameters of    community facilitators, either by providing
                              time, quality and budget.             additional training or by replacing them with
                                                                    consultants with a higher level of skills and
                              Each of the 9 indigenous and          experience. To minimize this risk,FHIS will
                              Afro-Honduran peoples will have       ensure that the training program for the
                              developed and implemented at          subproject formulators and community
                              least two cross-cutting subprojects   facilitators puts emphasis on the need to
                              that serve to strengthen the ethnic   anticipate and plan for the recurrent costs of
                              people as a whole (i.e. cultural,     operations and maintenance.
                              linguistic, historical).

   Intermediate Results                                                      Use of Results Monitoring
   One per Component
Participatory Development                         nic communities   Ifthistarget is not fulfilled, itwill indicate
Planning by Ethnic Groups     will finalize development plans       that there were significant weaknesses in the
Eachof the nine indigenous    for their villages, which will, in    training and selection o f strategic planning
3r Afro-Honduran groups has   turn, be incorporated in one of       facilitators and inthe leadership provided by
jeveloped its own Strategic   nine Ethnic Development Plans.        the organizations contracted to coordinate the
Plan.                                                               strategic planning process. To minimize this
                              9 Strategic Development Plans         risk, FHIS and the federations will develop a
                              developed and being                   rigorous training program with high standards
                              implemented.                          required for facilitator certification and
                                                                    supervise the planning process closely at each
                                                                    phase of the planning process.



                                                         24

                               At least40 percent of the
                               participants in the community
                               assembly, approving the plan, are
                               women.
Grantsfor Subprojects          At least 500 community               Ifsignificant progresstowards these targets
Prioritized subprojects have   subprojects have been                has not been made within the first eighteen
beensuccessfully               successfully completed by ethnic     months of the project, it would suggest the
implemented and are being      communities.                         need to make significant revisions in strategic
managedand maintained                                               planning process outlined inthe PEC Manual
successfully benefiting poor   At least 80 percent of the           before it is applied in additional communities.
communities with a             communities report that the
significant population of      subproject financed by the project
indigenous and Afro-           was their top priority.
Honduran people.               At least 70 percent of the
                               subprojects are benefiting
                               communities in the bottom fifth of
                               the poverty ranking scale.

                               At least, 80 percent of the          Ifthe first semi-annual audit showsthatthis
                               subprojects included inthe audit     target is not being met, the sections of the
                               sample show no accounting            Operational Manual describingfunds and
                               problems.                            materials management at the community level
                                                                    needs to be reviewed and strengthened. These
                               At least 20 percent o f community    changes need to be incorporated into the
                               residentshave participated in two    training materials for the community
                               or more of the nine community        facilitators, who should be retrained and, in
                               training modules.                    some cases, replaced by consultants with a
                                                                    better understanding of accounting.
                               At least 25 percent of subproject
                               2ater directly to women.

                               The Project Implementation
                               Committees include at least 40
                               percent women.

                               At least 50 percent of payments
                               For labor are made to women.
CapacityBuilding and           4t least 50 percent of the           Ifthis indicator is not achieved within the first
InstitutionalStrengthening     Ieneficiaries have been trained in   year of the project, it will suggest that FHIS
Success in achieving the       Zommunity development                and the Ethnic Representations have fallen in
outcomes and indicators for    Ilanning, at least 40 percent o f    the trap of focusing on the production of
the project as a whole and for :rainedbeneficiaries are women.      subprojects, rather than the more important
aach of the other two                                               goal of building human capital. To minimize
:omponents will indicate that                                       this risk, the NR project cycle has
NRhas successfully                                                  incorporated key capacity-building targets that
implemented this component.                                         mustbe met inorder to move to the stage
                                                                    within the MIS system.

                               i t least 50 percent of the external Ifthesetargets are notfulfilled withinthe first
                               iupervisors contracted by FHIS to    year o f the project, it will indicate that there
                               iupervise these subprojects          were significant weaknesses inthe training
                               ,eceivean evaluation rating o f 50   and selection o f the facilitators, technical
                               iercent or more, by men and          assistanceproviders and the supervisors. To
                               vomen.                               minimize this risk, FHIS and the federations
                                                                    will develop a rigorous training programfor


                                                         25

At least 60 percent of the         each group with high standards required for
                              ~




facilitators contracted by the     participant certification and supervise them
communities receive an evaluation closely as they carry out their responsibilities.
rating o f 80 percent or more, by
men and women.

At least 60 percent of the
technical assistanceproviders
contracted by the communities
receive an evaluation rating of 80
percent or more.

The NR project cycle has been      This will be required of FHIS as a condition
incorporated inFHIS' overall       of effectiveness.
MIS.




                         26

                                        A.angr ents r res1 ts monitoring
                                                    -
                                             Ta     es               Dah
                             Baseline     YR2  YR3  YR4    Frequencyand
                                         ---                  Reports
At least 400 Ethnic     0 Ethnic          150  150  100    Semi-Annual
Community               Community                          Progress                       Planning and
DevelopmentPlans        Development                        Reports                        EvaluationUnit
will be incorporated    Plans                              submittedby
into Municipal          incorporatedinto                   FHISto World
DevelopmentPlans;       Municipal                          Bank
                        Development
                        Plans            ---
At least 5 institutions 1 (FHIS)          2    2    1      Semi-Annual   FederationsMIS   FHIS-Nuestras
finance part of the     institution                        Progress                       Raicesunit
nine StrategicEthnic    financingthe                       Reports
DevelopmentPlans.       strategic plans.                   submittedby
                                                           FHIS to World
                                                           Bank
At least 50             0 Community      ---
                                          20  20    10     Semi-Annual   FHIS MIS         FHIS -
municipalitieswill      subprojects                        Progress                       Planningand
finance subprojects     includedin                         Reports                        EvaluationUnit
includedinthe           Community                          submittedby
Community               Development                        FHIS to World
DevelopmentPlans        Plans financedby                   Bank
prepared by the         municipalities
indigenousandAfro-
Honduran
communities.
At least40 percent of   41 percentof     >    9 0 % >      Semi-Annual   FHISMISand        FHIS -
the project's           project           40%       40%    Progress      Final ex-post     Planningand
beneficiaries are       beneficiariesare                   Reports       supervision site EvaluationUnit
women                   women (earlier                     submittedby   visit report
                        phases of NR)                      FHISto World
                                                           Bank
At least 70 percent of  0% of            ---
                                          50% 60%   70%    Semi-Annual   FHIS MISand       FHIS-
the subprojects         subprojects                        Progress      Final ex-post     Planningand
financed will have      financed are                       Reports       supervision site  EvaluationUnit
sustainable             sustainable                        submittedby   visit report
maintenance systems                                        FHIS to World
inoperation                              ---               Bank
At least 70 percent of 0% of             50%  60%   70%
subprojects are         subprojects
implementedin           financedare
accordance with the    implemented
Established
parametersof time,
quality andbudget.
Eachof the 9            0 cross-cutting                    Semi-Annual
indigenousand Afro-    subprojects                         Progress      finalex-post      Planningand
Honduranpeoples                                            Reports
will have developed                                        submittedby   visit report
md implementedat                                           FHISto World
least two cross-                                           Bank
xtting subprojects
.hat serveto
strengthenthe ethnic
Jeople as awhole
j.e. cultural,




                                                   27

                                       -
                                           T                    Data                 ting
      Outcome             Baseline          --        Frequencyand                   Responsibilities
                                                         Reports                     DataCollection
                                                   \

                                            --
Component#1:

-1500 ethnic          0 community            500 0    Semi-Annual   MIS              FHIS-
communities will      development                    Progress                        Planningand
preparecommunity      plansprepared.                  Reports                        EvaluationUnit
development plans                                     submittedby
for their villages,                                  FHIS to World
which will, inturn,                                  Bank
beincorporatedin
one of nineEthnic
DevelopmentPlans;

-9 StrategicPlans     0 Strategic plans      3   0   Semi-Annual    Receipt of       NuestrasRaices
developedandbeing     developed                      Progress       StrategicPian    Team
implemented.                                         Reports        from each Ethnic
                                                     submittedby    Representation
                                                     FHISto World
                                                     Bank




Component#2:

-At least20 percent   0 %               0%   10% 20% Semi-Annual    Workshop         Workshop
of community                                         Progress       Facilitator      Facilitatorsand
residentshave                                        Reports        Reports for each FHIS -Unidad
participatedin two or                                submittedby    communitylMIS    de Planificacion
moreof the nine                                      FHIS to World                   y Evaluacion
communitytraining                                    Bank                            Tecnica
modules.
                      0 community       200 200  200 Semi-Annual    MIS              FHIS -Unidad
- At least 600        subprojects                    Progress                        de Planificacion
community             completed                      Reports                         y Evaluacion
subprojectshave                                      submittedby                     Tecnica
beensuccessfully                                     FHIS to World
completedby ethnic                                   Bank
communities.          NA                0   80%  80%
                                                     Semi-Annual    NuestrasRaices   Nuestras Raices
- At least 80 percent                                Progress       Team-            Team
of the communities                                   Reports        Subproject
reportthat the sub-                                  submittedby    Completion
projectfinancedby                                    FHISto World   Checklist
the projectwas their                                 Bank
top priority.         NA                0   0    70%
                                                     Ex-post        Ex-post          Consultingfirm
- At least 70 percent                                Evaluation     Evaluation       contractedto
of the subprojectsare                                Report         Beneficiary      conduct the ex-
benefiting                                                          SurveyResults    post evaluation
communitiesin the
bottomfifth of the
povertyranking
scale.                NA                60% 60%  80% Semi-Annus     Subproject Audit Firmcontracted
                                                     Audit Reports  Results          to conduct audit
-At least, 80 percent
of the subprojects
includedinthe audit



                                                 28

                                      T ;et Vaes               Data :ollection and Rep ting
       Outcome           Baseline  YR2  YR3    YR4                                     Responsibilities
      Indicators:                       --                                             DataCollection
sampleshow no
accountingproblems.    NA          25%  25%    25% Ex-post          Ex-post            Consultingfirm
                                                   Evaluation       Evaluation         contractedto
-At least 25 percent                               Report           Beneficiary        conduct the ex-
of subprojectsenter                                                 Survey Results     postevaluation
directly to women.     NA          40%  40%   40%  Ex-post          Ex-post            Consultingfirm
                                                   Evaluation       Evaluation         contractedto
-The Project                                       Report           Beneficiary        conductthe ex-
Implementation                                                      Survey Results     postevaluation
committeeinclude at
least40 percent
women.                 NA          50%  50%   50%  Ex-post          Ex-post            Consultingfirm
                                                   Evaluation       Evaluation         contractedto
-At least 50 percent                               Report           Beneficiary        conductthe ex-
of payments for labor                                               Survey Results     post evaluation
are madeto women.                ---
Component#3:
- At least50 percent   NA          40%  40%   50%  Annual           Supervisor         FHISPersonnel
of the extemal                                     Supervisor       Evaluation         Dept.
supervisors                                        Evaluations (by  Results, MIS
contractedby FHIS                                  FHIS or by
to supervisethese                                  communities?)
subprojectsreceive
an evaluationrating
of 50 percentor
more, from menand
women                  NA          50%  55%   60%  Annual           Community          FHIS Personnel
                                                   evaluationsof    Facilitator        Dept.
- At least 60 % of the                             Community        Evaluation
facilitators                                       Facilitators     Results, MIS
contractedby the
communitiesreceive
an evaluationrating
of 80 percentor        NA          50%  50%   60%  Annual           Technical          FHISPersonnel
more, from menand                                  evaluationsof    Assistance         Dept.
women.                                             Technical        Provider
                                                   Assistance       Evaluation
- At least 60 % of the                             Providers        Results, MIS
technicalassistance
providerscontracted
by communities
receiveevaluation
ratingof 80 %or
more, from men and
women.




                                              29

                                    Annex 4: DetailedProject Description
                                   HONDURAS: Nuestras RakesProgram

1.       Project Development and Key Indicators

1.       The objective of the Nuestras Rakes Project is that indigenous and Afro-Honduran
groups have increased participation inthe integrated development processes of their
communities and their nation. This objective will be achieved by strengthening the communities'
local capacity to buildsustainable organizations, development projects and cultural identity. To
this end, the project will actively promoteinteractionbetweenthe ethnic communities, local
governments and central government agencies and programs. Duringthe three-year project,
Nuestras Raices will seek to strengthen the participation and influence of Honduras' ethnic
groups inlocal developmentprocesses. The project will have three components, each described
inmore detail below:

Project Component 1.ParticipatoryDevelopment Planning by Ethnic Group US$0.49 million  -
2.       This component will support a processof participatory development planning amongthe
indigenous andAfro-Honduran communities and the federations in order to: (a) train and prepareethnic
communities and their ethnic representationsto actively participate inthe local development planning
process; (b) identify subprojects to be financed under Nuestras Raices and other programs; and (c)
encourage ethnic federations to work more closely with municipalities to leverage funds.

3.       Approximately 2,000 community development plans will be generated, followingthe process
described below. The project will finance the cost of a facilitator ineach community to help it to conduct
a participatory needs assessment and planning processdesigned to identify and analyze problems,
recommend solutions and prioritize activities and projects that could be financed under the NR project or
other fundingoptions. The community development plans will include a history of the community, a
mapping of socio-economic resources-past,       present, andfuture-an    inventory of the community's social
capital, and a list of prioritized problems and suggestedsolutions. The "ethnic profiles" developed in
2001under aJapaneseGrant ("Indigenous PeoplesDevelopmentProject") and other existingcommunity
development plans (if available) will serve as a starting point for this process.

4.       Once the communities have completed their participatory needs assessment and planningprocess,
subprojects will be prioritized inmicro-regional meetings involving20 communities each. Subprojects
prioritizedby the micro-regions will be further screenedat the level of each ethnic group. Inboth cases,
the selection criteria usedin the prioritization process led by a trained facilitator will include, inter alia, :

            Poverty level (Poorer is better)
             Sustainability (Longer i s better)
            Gender (More women i s better)
            Protection of the Environment (Higheri s better)
            Number of sectors favored (Higher i s better)
            Percentof Community Households that are Direct Beneficiaries (Higher i s better)
            Investment cost per capita (Lower is better)
            Length of Project Implementation Period (Shorter i s better)
            Community Contribution (Higher i s better)
            Distance from municipal center (Farther i s better)



                                                      30

5.       Each Ethnic Development Plan will include a prioritized list of subprojects identified by their
member communities as well as several "horizontal" subprojects that support activities beneficial to the
ethnic people as a whole. Such projects will serveto strengthen social capital, to preserve linguistic and
cultural heritage (organization of fairs and cultural events, construction of museums to house ethnic
artifacts, etc.) and to address landrights issues and other issues of shared interest to the group. Each
ethnic group may use upto ten percent of its fund allocation to support these subprojects, which will be
identified ina meeting involving representativesof each micro-region.

6.       The methodology for the strategic planningprocess has been carefully crafted and employs an
integral community development approachinstead of a "project identification" focus. It will produce an
important and useful instrument for ethnic communities to become actively involved inthe country's
municipal development planningefforts. The project will strongly encourageeach ethnic group to share
both its strategic and community development plan with local governments and to work with local
governments so that their subprojectsbe integrated into the relevant Municipal Development Plans. In
addition, it will serve communities structure andcommunicate their needs with other potential financiers
(line ministries, local governments, NGOs, other donors, etc.). Finally, these plans will enable
communities to monitor their development progress and provide an opportunity to continue the discussion
about their development priorities.

7.       The ethnic representationswill be contracted andtrained to guide the strategic planningprocess
for the ethnic communities belongingto their ethnic group. For eight of the nine ethnic groups, NR will
contract directly with the ethnic group's technical unit (UTEFIN)to leadthe strategic planningprocess
for its member communities. Due to the large number of Lencacommunities, it will be necessaryto split
upthe planningprocessesinto differentregions, and thus usecompetitive biddingto select the provider
best able to lead the strategic planningprocess in each region. The planning process will be supervisedby
the FHISLNR team as well as external supervisors who will receive specialized trainingto carry out this
duty.

8.      Each of the nine ethnic groups will then prepare a strategic development planoutlining the
vision, mission, and strategic goals for its membership over a 3 to 5 year period. These plans will be
developed basedon a culturally adaptedmethodology, which i s usedby Honduranlocal governments to
develop Strategic Municipal Development Plans (PEDM). The strategic planning process starts at the
community level. The results of this exercise are then elevated to the micro-regional level and finally
consolidated into a Strategic Ethnic Development Planby each of the 9 ethnic peoples.

Project Component 2. Grantsfor Subprojects US$13.8 million

9.      Allocationof Funds among Ethnic Groups. An estimated $13.8 million will be invested in
community-executed subprojects. These resourceswould be allocated proportionately among the nine
ethnic groups, basedupon the 2001census data, while guaranteeing a minimumallocation for the five
smallest ethnic groups and adjusting for the highcost of living in the Moskitiaand Bay Islands. The
allocations appearing inthe table below were established indiscussion with the representatives of each
ethnic group duringthe project planning workshop inComayagua.




                                                      31

                             Table: Honduras'EthnicPopulationsby Group"

  Ethnic Group                      Population    Percent of Total        Subproject          Percent of
                                   2001Census          Ethnic             Allocation             Total
                                       Data          Population                               Subproject
                                                                                                Budget
 Lenca                                   279,507          62              $7,574,400              55
 Tolupan                                    9,617         2                  $301,100               2
 Pech                                       3,848          1                 $275,400               2
                                           34,453         8                  $893,500               7
 ~
 Chorti
 Garifma**                                46,448          10               $1,572,600               12
 English-speaking Black**                  12,370         3                  $455,600               3
  Miskito**                               51,607          11                $1.983,200              14
 Tawahka  **                                2,463          1                 $441,600               3
  Nahoas                                  9,254*          2                  $302,600               2
  TOTAL                                 449,567          100            $13,800,000***            100

*The Nahoas were identified as mestizos by the census, since they have lost their language, and now only speak
Spanish. According to FHIS calculations, the Nahoas are approximately 9,500 representing approximately 2% of
Honduras' total ethnic population.
** The English-speaking Black communities will receive a cost of living adjustment o f 68 percent; the Tawahka,
Pech, Miskito, and 30 percent of the Garifuna communities will receive a cost of living adjustment of 54 percent.
*** $13.3 from IDA and the balance from Government Counterpart funding.

10.     Project Formulation. Upon completion of the subproject prioritization process, communities
whose subproject is among those selectedfor implementationwill contract a consultant to assist them
with project formulation. These consultants must be selectedfrom a list of consultants trained and
certifiedby FHIS. Subprojects will only be financed if they have been prioritized through a participatory
development planningexercise.

11.     Communities will be expected to finance, through cash or in-kindcontributions, at least 10
percent of their subproject's value. Community contributions will be equivalent to at least $1.380,000. No
project minimumor maximum value will be established.Nonetheless, it i s expected that the average
project value will be approximately $20,000,25 percent less than the FHIS average. Any type of
community subproject (infrastructure, social assistance, productive, cultural heritage, etc.) will be eligible
for financing, as long as it i s not includedon the negative menu outlined inthe OperationalManual.

12.     Prior to submitting its subproject proposal, each community must select a Project Implementation
Committee (PIC), whether it is the existingTribal Council or Committee of Elders or a newly-formed
group created for subproject execution. In addition, each community will select an Oversight Committee
that will help guaranteethe transparent management of subproject funds. Each committee will have a
leadership that i s elected or, in those cases where the group already exists, confirmed, by the entire
community. FHISwill not require that project committees have legal status; nonetheless, it will encourage
each community to apply for legal status from the Ministry of Justice andGovernance.

13.     ProjectAppraisal and Approval. Once formulated, the prioritized subprojects will be appraised
inaccordancewith FHIS's technical criteria, such as: legal status of project site, constructionstandards,
environmental standards, sector-specific regulations, internal rates of returnfor productive projects, etc.
FHIS will also analyze the project budgets to ensure that they represent the best solution at the lowest
cost. FHISevaluators (staff) will first conduct a desk review, and for those subprojects that pass, will


loESA Consultores -Evaluaci6n de Proyecto Nuestras Raices IV, Tegucigalpa, 2002.


                                                       32

follow-up with a field visit, including a general assembly to discuss any project improvements deemed
necessaryfor approval. Subprojects passingboth types of review will be approved. Communities, whose
projects do not pass the review, will be given specific feedback on the improvements required and the
opportunity to revise the project plan to pass the technical review within a one-month timeframe.

 14.      Contracting. Once a subproject has beenapproved, FHIS will preparea contract between FHIS
and the Project Implementation Committee identified inthe project plan. It i s desirable, but not necessary
that this committee has legal status. The contract will include fundingfor the subproject itself (goods,
works, materials, etc.) as well as the training and technical assistancerequiredfor successful subproject
implementation, all of which i s considered a grant to the community. The contract will clearly state that
all tools, facilities, and other materials and assetsproduced by the project are property of the community.

 15.      As noted above, in additionto the community-level subprojects, ten percent of the subproject
budget will support activities identifiedby each ethnic group to strengthen its cultural integrity. FHIS will
require competitive biddingto select the contractors who will supply the goods and services includedin
these cross-cutting subprojects.

16.       Implementation, Procurement, Disbursement. Subprojects will be executedusinga CDD
community contracting methodology inaccordance with FHIS's OperationalManual "Proyectos
Ejecutados por la Comunidad (PEC)." Project funds will be transferred directly to the Project
ImplementationCommittee Bank account intranches, or through other payment mechanismsdefined in
the Operational Manual. Eachproject committee will select and contract a facilitator from a list of pre-
qualified consultants to support it throughout the implementationphase. Ifnecessary, the project may also
contract a technical specialist, such as a construction coordinator, to assist with technical aspects of
project implementation.

17.       The Project Implementation Committee(PIC), with vigilance from the Oversight Committee,
will procure all goods and services required to implement the subproject in accordancewith Bank
guidelines and outlined inthe PECManual. The PIC will also recruit andmanageall community labor
required and ensurethat commitments for community contributions are fulfilled ina timely manner, so
that all inputs are available when needed.

18.       With help from their contracted Community Facilitator, the Community ProjectImplementation
Committee (PIC) will be required to prepareregularprojectimplementationreportsupdating
"HIS        on progress implementing the approved project plan andjustifyingthe use of funds advanced
by FHIS. The PIC will also be requiredto meet at least monthly with the entire community to report on
progressinimplementing the approved subproject and to present a summary of subproject revenuesand
expenditures.

19.      The PIC must also ensurethat all infrastructure subprojects have a democratically elected and
functioning OperationsandMaintenanceCommitteeby the time the subproject has beenfully
implemented. Non-infrastructure subprojects, such as a community services subproject, may require an
Operations Committee earlier to take responsibility for managingthe delivery of subproject services.

20.      Supervisionofsubprojectimplementationwill be carriedout by a FHIS-contracted supervisor
who will be required to visit the subproject every two weeks and more frequently, if necessary, to
objectively assess the evolution of project implementation. Subsequentdisbursements will be authorized
by FHIS basedupon subproject implementationprogress and the recommendations of the Supervisors.
(More detail on the roles and responsibilities of each of these key actors i s includedinAnnex 6.)




                                                      33

Project Component 3. Capacity Buildingand Institutional Strengthening             - US$1.31  million

21.      This component will finance capacity buildingof ethnic communities to leadtheir own
development process, institutional strengthening of the Nuestras Rakes team, locatedwithin FHIS, and
monitoring and evaluation. The main capacity buildingactivities include training andtechnical assistance
to the communities inparticipatory development planning, project identification, planning, execution,
operation and maintenance, and funds and materials management.

22.      Project Management: A small project unit locatedwithin FHIS will be responsible for managing
the project, incoordination with the respective specialized FHIS departments (planning, procurement,
financial management, evaluation, etc.). It will coordinate closely with the ethnic representations,the
community-level Project Implementation Committees, the locally-contracted Community Facilitatorsand
Technical Specialists, andthe FHIS-contracted Supervisors and Inspectors for the successful implemen-
tation of the program. The role of each of these key actors is described more indetail in Annex 6.

23.      Capacity Building in Planning and SubprojectImplementation: To strengthen the capacity of
ethnic communitiesto implement their own subprojects, the Nuestras Rakes Programwill provide
trainingand technical assistance to the communities inall aspects of subproject management. NR will
trainandcertify a network of Community Facilitatorsineachof the followingtopics:

             Organizing and operating a democratic and efficient Project Implementation Committee;
             The role of women incommunity development;
             Selecting and managingcontractors;
             Monitoring the subproject implementationprogress;
             Managingsubproject funds and materials;
             Collecting, managing, and reporting community contributions;
             Reportingon subproject expenditures and implementationprogress;
             Protectingthe local environment; and
             Negotiation and conflict prevention.

24.      The targeted communities will use a portion of their subproject budget to contract a Community
Facilitator of their choice to replicate the trainingat the community level. NR will contract an NGOor a
consulting firmto develop the curriculum and training materials and to deliver the training to candidates
recruitedand screened by FHIS in coordination with representatives of each ethnic group.

25.      Strengthen UnityAmong Ethnic Groups: NR will support the ethnic representatives intheir
efforts to discourage further splinteringwithin their groups and forge new linkages across ethnic groups-
within Honduras and internationally-around       issues of shared interest. Specifically, NR will support
travel, meeting, and workshop costs for the representatives of the nine ethnic groups for this purpose.




                                                      34

26.     Monitoring and Evaluation: The program will be monitoredby FHIS' MIS and project
indicators will be tracked at various stages of the project cycle. Local ethnic specialists trained by the
Bankinmonitoring and evaluation of the implementation of the Poverty ReductionStrategy will be
consulted as FHIS/NR fine-tunes its monitoringand evaluation strategy for this project. Inaddition,
FHIS/NR will organize bi-monthly participatory monitoring activities that may involvejoint field visits
by the nine ethnic representatives,the FHIS/NRstaff andprominent anthropologists and/or other
academics to share experience, identify anddiscuss implementation progress, andpropose any necessary
adjustments. Funds will be set aside for an external ex-post evaluation of the program, the results of
which will be compared with those of the 2002 evaluation of the NuestrasRakes program.

27.    Audits: The project will be includedinFHIS' annual financial audits. Inaddition, biannual
operational audits (spot checks) will be carried out based on a randomly select sample of subprojects. The
operational auditors will assess the quality of the completed subprojects, the accuracy of the community's
bookkeeping andrecords, and the degree to which the procedures outlined inthe Operational Manual
were followed. The auditors will also check that the FHIS' MIS has an up-to-date cost database for all the
regions of the country.

28.     The OperationalCosts for implementingthe project amount to US$ 1.1millionand include
FHIS staff costs as well as recurrent costs for offices, mobilization, equipment etc.. These funds would be
provided as counterpart funds by the Government of Honduras. Inaddition, the Government of Honduras
would provide US$0.5 million for financing of grants for subprojects.




                                                      35

                                        Annex 5: Project Costs
                              HONDURAS: Nuestras RakesProgram




Project Cost By Component and/or Activity                   Local     Foreign      Total
                                                         US $million US $million US $million
1.DevelopPlanningby Ethnic Group                             0.48       0.00        0.48
2. Grantsfor Sub-projects                                    12.20      1.30       13.50
3. Capacity Buildingand Institutional Strengthening           .97       0.21        1.18
4. Operating Cost                                             1.10      0.00        1.10
Total Baseline Cost                                          14.75      1.51       16.26
 PhysicalContingencies                                       0.32       0.03        0.35
 Price Contingencies                                         0.08       0.01        0.09
                                   Total Project Costs'      15.15      1.55       16.70
                             Interest duringconstruction     0.0        0.0         0.0
                                          Front-endFee       0.0        0.0         0.0
                             Total Financing Required        15.15      1.55       16.70




                                                  36

                                  Annex 6: ImplementationArrangements
                                  HONDURAS: NuestrasRaicesProgram

 1.      As inthe past, the Honduras SocialInvestment Fund(FHIS)will be the implementingagency for
 the project. Overall responsibility for this project will be with the Minister of FHIS andhis staff. The
 Nuestras Raices team will be responsible for coordinating and supervising project activities, and working
 with the various departmentsof FHIS to ensure that the project evolves according to plan.

 2.      FHISwas createdin 1990as adeconcentratedagency of limiteddurationto finance small-scale
 investments inpoor and marginalized communities. Since 1990, the government has extended and
 substantively modifiedthe institutional mandate of FHIS severaltimes, allowing the organization to
respondto emergent needs (such as post-Mitch reconstruction) and extend its successful operations to
more communities.

3.       The most recent Congressional reforms of FHIS (Decreto 166-99 in 1999) extended the duration
of FHISthrough 2012 and marked a new direction inits institutional orientation. This legislation
explicitly calls for the restructuring of FHIS to support the process of decentralization and municipal
capacity building.Specifically, FHIS i s to planandexecute the transfer of its operational, technical and
financial functions to municipalities.

4.       To support this effort, the Bank's current FHIS V Project includes a local institutional
strengthening component that pilots activities in: participatory local planning, delegation of the FHIS
project cycle to municipal governments and strengthening local systems for preventive maintenance.
These activities represent a considerable departure from the centralized mode of previous FHIS
operations and coincide with the preparation of two new Bank projects that touch on the same issue of
local institutional capacity andthe traditional FHIS domain of small-scale civil works. A Boardof
Directors chaired by the President of the Republic overseesFHIS, which i s ledby an ExecutiveDirector,
who has the rank of Minister.

5.       FHIS has more than 14 years experience implementingdonor-financed programs and subprojects
efficiently and effectively. The institution's annual expenditures average between US$ 35-40 million, thus
FHISis the secondlargestimplementingagency inthe country, followingthe Ministryof Transportation
(SOPTRAVI). Financial managementand procurement unitsare well established and respective Bank
guidelines are beingfollowed without major difficulty.

6.       The NR unit in FHIS has experienced and motivatedpersonnel. The NR component under the
FHIS V Project, totaling US$ 13.6 million, was implementedwithin one-and-a-half years, demonstrating
the capacity of FHISand the NR team to be efficient and effective. The NR team is composed of five
professionals, two technicians and two support staff. Inorder to carry out the new project, it was agreed
that FHIS would recruit additional staff members with specific skills to complement the NR team and
prepare it to manageparticipatory strategic planningactivities in Component 1and the more diverse and
higher value subproject portfolio under Component 2. The cost of the NR team will be financed as part of
the GOHcounterpart funding.
7.       The NRteam will have the responsibility within FHIS to ensure that the project outlined inthis
document i s implemented according to plan and basedon the guidelines set out inthe PEC Manual. They
will take the lead role in coordinatingthe relationships with the representatives of the ethnic groups and
all of FHIS's departments involved in the successful implementation of the project. These departments
include Training, Procurement, Contracting, Finance and Administration, and Monitoringand Control.
The NR unit will also coordinate with external partners to monitor the progress of activities financed by


                                                      37

other partners that are related to this project, but not includedas part of the project budget (ie. PAPINand
REPEPJN, and the work on the legalframework of the rural credit and savings groups beingfinanced and
led by UNDP).
8.     NR will collaborate closely with eachof the following key players, whose roles and
responsibilities are outlined below:

       0     The representatives of each of the nineethnicgroups (whether it be a federation or
             confederation of federations representing the same ethnic group) will develop a Multi-year
             Strategic Plan and Annual Plansfor each of the years the project i s active. As explained in
             more detail above, these plans will be the basis for allocating project funds among
            communities within an ethnic group. NR will contract directly with the eight of the nine
            ethnic representationsto lead the strategic planningprocess within their group. Inthe case of
            the Lenca, given the large size of the contract, competitive biddingwill be usedto select a
             service provider.

       0    The GeneralAssembly involving a majority of all indigenous or Afro-Honduran community
            residents (men and women) over 18 years of age i s the supreme authority ineachcommunity
            participating inthe NuestrasRaices Project. The Assembly will be responsible for all key
            decisions related to the community needs assessment andplanningprocess and for the
            successful implementationof subprojectsfinanced by FHIS. It will elect from among its
            members a Project ImplementationCommittee, which i s described inmore detail below, to
            which it will delegatethe day-to-day responsibilities of the needs assessment, planning, and
            project implementationprocess.

       0    The Project Implementation Committees (PZCs) will have responsibility for leadingthe need
            assessment andplanningprocess, executing the community projects and managingproject
            funds. At least 40% of the PIC membersmust be women. While Nuestras Raices will
            encourageeach community to establish itself as a legalentity, it will not be a pre-requisite for
            receiving subproject funds. Alternative informal options acceptable both to the GOHandthe
            World Bank have been defined.

            The Community OversightCommitteeis a social control mechanism at the community level
            designed to ensure the transparency of the Project Implementation Committee's activities.
            The role of these two actors i s described in more detail inthe section on Component 2 and in
            the PEC Manual.

       0    The CommunityFacilitator will initially be contracted to assist each targeted community in a
            participatory community needs assessment and project planning process.The community will
            select and contract the Community Facilitatorsfrom a list of consultants who have been
            trained and pre-qualified by FHIS for this purpose. FHIS will seek to recruit qualified
            Community Facilitators from the nine ethnic groups served by the NR Program. Later on,
            once a community project has been approved, a Community Facilitator may be contracted to
            provide training and technical assistance to the Project Implementation Committee and the
            Oversight Committee to ensure that the project i s implemented in accordance with the
            approved plan and the PECManual and that funds and materials are managed transparently.
            Duringthe project identificationandplanningphase, the cost of the Community Facilitator
            will be paid for by FHIS. Duringthe project implementation phase, the cost of the
            Community Facilitator will be included inthe approved subproject budget.

       0    A Project Formulator, trained to formulate subprojects to meet allFHIS requirements, will
            be selectedfrom a list of pre-qualified consultants and contracted by the community to assist
            it inthe processof completing the subproject proposal. This activity will be done inclose
            collaboration with the Community Assembly and the Project Implementation Committee,



                                                       38

  which will needto give final approval to the proposal, before it i s submitted to FHIS for
  approval.

0 The Technical Specialists,like the Community Facilitators, will be available to the
  participatingcommunities both duringthe project identification and implementationphases.
  They will offer technical input to ensure the quality of the project design and plan and, once a
  project has been approved, to ensure that technical standards are met duringthe
  implementation phase. These costs will be charged to the NR Consultant line duringthe
  project-planningphase andincluded as part of the subproject budget duringthe
  implementation phase.

  FHIS will assign each approved project a FHIS-contracted Supervisor, who will visit the
  project at least once every two weeks to verify the progress stated inproject reports and
  approve the disbursement of additional subproject funds, basedupon an acceptable advance
  of the subproject.

0 The Supervisors will report to a full-time FHIS Inspector. The cost of the Supervisors will be
  charged to the NR Project consultant line, while the cost of the Inspector will be financed out
  of government counterpart funding.




                                          39

                  Annex 7: FinancialManagement andDisbursement Arrangements
                                 HONDURAS: NuestrasRaicesProgram

1.       Country Issues.The Country FinancialAccountability Assessment (CFAA) was conducted in
2003 and the GOH i s currently working to finalize the proposed action plan. The diagnostic work
concluded that the quality of budget reporting by decentralized and deconcentrated agencies was in need
of improvement, and that inthe interim, disaggregatedbudget execution reports would be requiredto
permit for greater participation inbudget monitoring and evaluation, andto further facilitate poverty
reduction expenditure tracking.

2.       StrengthsandWeaknesses.FHIS has establisheda strong administrativeunit with many years
of experience implementingandmanaging Bank-financed projects. The unitalso has receivedtraining as
recently as August 2003, and is well versedinthe recent policy changes affectingproject financial
management.

3.      Additionally, FHIS has experience in managing programs similar to Nuestras Raices (this was a
component under the FHIS V Project), and has inplace the appropriate personnel to supervise community
financial management.

4.      The project will advance the majority of financing to community for community-led
development, however many communities have never managedan amount of financing as significant as
this project purports.

5.       CountryRisk. The country-specific risk(country risk assessment was includedunder the CFAA
in2003) has beenassessedas high due the identified structural weaknessesinthe public financial
managementsystem, in spite of a generally sound and complete legal and governingframework for public
financial management.The GOH has taken active measures to improve transparency and governance, and
once these actions are completed, it i s envisioned that the specific risk assessment would be mitigated.
Additionally, the GOHi s contemplating a series of further actions to improve the public oversight
mechanisms and fiscal classificationto permit greater social involvement in the analysis of public
investment.

Risk assessment(projectrisk)

6.      Inherentrisk. Inherent riskis the susceptibility of project funds not beingusedas intended, if we
assume that there were no internal controls. Inpart becauseof the politicized nature of the FHIS, andthe
poor rating of Honduras inTransparency International's Corruption index, inherent risk i s considered to
be high.

7.      Controlrisk.As described inthe InternalControls section, adequatefinancial
managemendinternal control arrangementsare inplace to provide reasonable assurancethat misuse of
funds would beprevented or detected andcorrected on atimely basis. Even so, the control riskis
moderate.

8.      Detectionrisk.Given the combination of inherent and control rkks,acceptable levels of
detection riskneedto be lower, so as to reduce the overall risk level. The call for quarterly internal and
external audit reports aims at this objective.




                                                     40

ImplementingEntity

9.       FHIS' organizational chart i s inthe project files. Eachmain department i s headedby a Director
that reports to the Minister of FHIS. Principal administrative unitsare:

             Financial Management: Incharge of finances, accounting, financial reporting, and treasury
             for subprojects.
             Contracting: Responsible for procurement and contracting of services for subprojects and
             other major procurement processes.
             Administration: Incharge of humanresources management, operational expenses and
             transportation.

10.      Since the early 1990s, FHIS has beenthe principal Government agency for financing small-scale
civil works inthe social sectors. IDA, incooperation with other donors (mainly IDB and KfW), has
supported FHISthrough four credits, includingthe ongoing FHIS V Project (Cr. 3118-HO). This project
was the first inthe Central America Country Management Unit to be certified for FMR-based
disbursementsby the World Bank.

11.     Through their participation in previous andongoing projects, FHIS' financial managementstaff
members have gained substantial experience (5-10 years) to properly fulfill their tasks. Moreover, they
possess pertinent professional background and receive competitive compensation.

12.     Training.Financial managementstaff membershave received World Banktrainingin
Procurement and Disbursement, and most recently received training at the August 2003 (project)
fiduciary workshop held inTegucigalpa). Furthermore, FHIS staff also i s knowledgeable with the Bank's
Guidelines on Financial Monitoring Reports and the Guidelines and Terms of Reference for Audits of
Projects with Financing by the WorldBank in LCR.

13.     Humanresourcesmanagement.A study camed out by a consultant in 1999found that, while
experienced and capable personnel have beencontracted, the human resources managementfunction
FHIS-wide presentssome weaknesses, such as: incompleteuse of position classifications, salary gaps,
proceduresfor recruitment and personnel evaluation not being followed, and lack of a formal training
program. The risk of political influence in hiringdecisions was also identified.

14.     The study proposed a series of recommendations to overcome the above-mentioned weaknesses
and the following documents were produced: Manual descriptivo de clases depuestos, Manual de
evaluacidn del desempeiio,Plan de capacitacidn y desarrollo, Manual y Normas de reclutamiento y
seleccidn, Manual de valoracidn depuestos, y Plan de Remuneraciones.

InternalControls

15.     OperationalManual.FHIS recently engageda consultant to update FHIS' Operational Manual.
The manual now includes for proceduresrelevant to "new" components @e., those substantially different
from the ones inthe ongoingFHIS V Project), such as those to be financedunder the Nuestras Raices
Program. The manual has beenpresentedanddistributed to pertinent staff. Its contents will needto be
updatedperiodically (to remain current with changes in delivery platforms for development aid) and
fulfillment with its conditions monitored regularly (e.g., external audits would include selective reviews
of compliance with the procedures established inthe manual).

16.     Inaddition to the Operational Manual, norms and procedures exist for the main administrative
departments(e.g., Accounting, Contracting, Personnel, Travel Expenses, etc.).



                                                     41

17.      Segregation of dutiesandlevelsof approval. Subprojects are processedin accordance with a
detailed series of steps known as the Project Cycle, which includes all stages from receipt of proposals for
subprojects untiltheir closure. The Project Cycle i s supported by a comprehensive management
information system (MIS) that allows for processing of subprojects inaccordance with the procedures and
approval levels established.

18.      For key decision-making steps in the Project Cycle, various Committees have beenestablished,
such as: Project Evaluation, Award of Contracts, and Registration of Contractors. Even so, there is still
inadequate segregation of functions, such as the Director for Control and Monitoring (who oversees
contractors' performance) participates in the award andregistration committees. It was recommended
that, while Control andMonitoring should report regularly on negligent contractors and contributeto the
creation of a "black list," it should not participate inaward decisions.

19.      Handling of complaints. Inorder to help promote the idea of "social controllership," a unit was
recently created to handle complaints received from the communities. However, its structure and
procedures have not beenformalized yet. This task needs to be completed, so as to provide for an
independent, documented, and timely processingof community allegations.

20.      Bank accounts. Severalaccountshavebeen openedfor the managingof funds relatingto each
programFHIS executes. Under the ongoingFHIS V Project, a Special Account for credit funds i s held at
the Central Bankand managedby the Secretary of Finance (SEFIN). Actual payments are made from
FHIS' operational accountsheld incommercialbanks. Signatories to these accounts are the FHIS
Minister inconjunction with one of five authorized Directors. The bank account reconciliationsare timely
prepared on a monthly basis.

21.     Fixed assets. A detailed subsidiary record of assets is kept up-to-date inthe accounting system. It
identifies each good, its inventory number, location, responsible employee, and cost (properly reconciled
to the accounting balance). It i s supported by signed forms confirming receipt of goods.

Flow of funds

22.     FHIS's financial managementstaff have gained sufficient experience inIDA credit disbursement
procedures, both under "traditional" and FMR methods and experience has also been acquired on
procedures for disbursing of counterpart funds and other external resources.

23.     Under the NuestrasRakes Project, more than 80 percent of the funds will be disbursed to
communities to exclusively implement subproject prioritized incommunity development and strategic
ethnic plans. FHIS has already developed a thorough OperationalManualfor the project, which has been
reviewedby the Bank, and which has incorporated many of the experiences from prior community and
FHIS funded projects, and relies heavily on the principles inthe Bank Reference Guide: Fiduciary
Managementfor Community Driven Development Projects (April 2002).

24.     Inorder to minimizedelays inthe flow of funds to communities, FHIS will have access to the
Special Account, which will be maintained at the Central Bank of Honduras, and funds may be
transferred to the local currency accounts managed by FHIS for further transfer to communities.
Furthermore, in maintainingthe operation of bank accounts under the FHIS V project, it is proposed that
FHISwould bepermitted to utilizethe Special Account 30day Advance Procedure.




                                                       42

Planning, budgetingandfinancial reporting

25.      Plans and budgets. Communities will preparetheir own development plans, and inaddition will
undergo a self-diagnostic assessment to evaluate their capacity to managethe finances. The results of the
self diagnostic will also determine the sequencingandtiming of capacity building training sessions,
which will cover the general areas of planning, resourcemanagement, supervision, monitoring and
evaluation.

26.      The annual operational plani s basedon the approved programs submitted by the communities,
and will include government counterpart contribution, community contributions, and Bank financing. The
aggregation of these plans will be summarized inbasic budgetary andphysical figures for submission to
the Ministry of Finance (SEFTN) (and subsequentlyto the Congress), and will follow the budget
nomenclature issued by the Vice Ministry of Budgeting.

27.      FHIS' sophisticated MISprovides the basis neededfor tracking project activities and financial
information, including stages inthe Project Cycle. The same system linksthe accounting andbudgeting
modules so as to allow for preparation of the financial section of quarterly FinancialMonitoring Reports
(FMRs). Dueto the experience that FHIS has accumulated with the two most recent Bank financed
projects, the general format for FMRswill remainthe same. However, it will be essentialthat FHIS
regularly report section 2 (output monitoring) and include a listingof subprojects classified by region or
indigenous grouping; and section 3 (procurement), to report a summary of procurement executed by the
communities, even though these contracts will most probably fall below the prior review threshold. Bank
supervision and independent ex-post review (including independent audits) will be greatly facilitatedby
regular reportingthe community basedprocurement.

28.      Financialreports. The basic financial statements and supplementary financial information are
prepared on a monthly basis for discussion by FHIS management, but meetings are not part of a formal
schedule. Although FMRsare preparedquarterly, these have not yet been used as a managementtool per
se. Given these circumstances, FHIS was advised of the need to establish formal procedures for
distribution, review, analysis and approval of the monthly, quarterly and annual project management
information (including FMRs).                         -

Accounting system

29.      Chartof accounts. The current chart of accountscomplies with minimumBank guidelines, as it
allows for the classification of expenditures by disbursement category, project component and source of
funds. It also provides for reportingbudgetary execution interms of governmental requirements.

30.      Accounting records. Transactions are recordedin a timely way in the system, so that financial
statementscan be issuedwithin 10days of the cut-off date. Supporting documents are properly filed and
maintained in a room createdexclusively for that purpose. Such documents are maintained for a minimum
period of five years in accordancewith local norms.

31.     Accounting software. The computerized system was developed internally by FHIS. The software
includes enough functions to properly manage and track accounting records and produce financial reports
inaccordancewith Bank requirements.

32.     Despite the above, data provided inthe FMRs have included certain inaccuracies, mainly as a
consequenceof the linkages with the accounting module. These matters have been widely discussedwith
FHISand afinal version of the FMRswas agreed. Furthermore, nationalfunds relatedto the project will
be maintained separately (both interms of bank account and accounting records) from other funds and the



                                                     43

accounting-FMR linkages will be revised so that the FMRs only reflect those funds relating exclusively to
the project.

33.      Other enhancementsincluded in the MIS Action Plan are: (i)       multi-currency capability; (ii)
implementation of FMR section 2; (iii)    upgrading of the procurement module; (iv) preparation of user
manuals; and(v) decentralization of the Project Cycle.

Internaland ExternalAudits


Auditor is appointedby the Tribunal Superior de Cuentas (TSC -Audit Court). The TSC is the auxiliary
34.      Internal Audit. Inaccordancewith the General Public Administration Law, FHIS's Internal

branch of the Congress that constitutes Honduras' Supreme Audit Institution. Along with public sector
internal auditors, it i s incharge of ex-post fiscal control and audit functions inthe public sector.

35.      Among its responsibilities, the TSC must present the annual report to the Congress within 40
days after the end of the year. On the other hand, the Internal Auditors report directly to the TSC and
present biannual summaries of activities performed, and their annual work plans.

36.      To help ensure independence, the Internal Audit unitsare not allowed to participate inany
administrative, approval, accounting, or decision-making processes inthe entities. However, they do not
have the benefit of budgetary independencethat the TSC enjoys.

37.      Recent internal audit reports show some deficiencies inthe physical implementationand/or
documentation of subprojects. Other administrative issues have also been identified, like some instances
of noncompliance with the Operational Manual of Labor.

38.      Eventhough the (new) TSC Law requires Government officials to carry on the actions requiredto
overcome weaknesses reported by the TSC, the process needed to enforce this requirement takes
substantial time, thus preventingits efficient implementation. To help with this situation, it was
recommended that FHIS managementimplement formal procedures for following up on internal audit
reports. Moreover, the Bank would requesta copy of the quarterly reports the InternalAuditor must
present to FHIS' Board of Directors in accordance with article 22 of the FHIS Law.

39.      ExternalAudit. FHIS has taken steps to prevent some quality issuesthat were raised with its
previous external auditor. The short list of firms andTerms of Reference for the audit of the ongoing
FHIS V Project have been prepared and considered acceptable to the Bank. Inaddition to the regular
financial audit requirements, the external auditors will be required to perform an operational review of a
sample of subprojects. This review will consider issues such as compliance with financiaYprocurement
clauses of the credit agreementand physicalimplementation, and compliance with the ManualPEC.

40.      During2002, the external auditors performedquarterly subproject visits andreported accordingly
(for the FHIS V Project), inaddition to the legally required annual audit report. For Nuestras Raices,
similar audit arrangements would be inplace, with biannual subproject visits by the auditors. The auditors
would need to be properly appointed before the effectiveness date. The annual audit would be requiredto
be submitted to the Bank no later than 4 months after the end of the fiscal year (January -December).


Disbursementarrangements

Method. Since adequate FM capacity and procedures are in place (see para. 61), including report-based
disbursement experience (see para.4l),    and per agreement with FHIS, credit proceeds will be withdrawn


                                                       44

on a quarterly basis under the report-based disbursement method. Duringproject implementation, FHIS
will (a) sustain satisfactory FMarrangements to be verified through project supervision; (b) submit FMRs
consistent with the form, content and due date agreed with the Bank; and (c) submit acceptable Audit
Reports by their due date. IfFHIS does not continue to meet these criteria duringproject implementation,
the method will be changedto transaction-baseddisbursementsonly (provided the Bank does not suspend
disbursements because of non-compliance with the obligation to maintainan adequateFMsystem).

Special Account. FHIS will open and maintain a Special Account inUS Dollars inthe Central Bankto be
used exclusively for deposits and withdrawals of credit proceeds for eligible expenditures. After the
conditions of effectiveness and disbursement have been met, and the Special Account has been opened,
FHIS will submit the first disbursement request (Form 1903B) to the Bank, together with the project's
expenditure forecast for the next six months. For subsequent withdrawals, FHIS will submit Form 1903B
to the Bank, along with the FMRfor the quarter just ended.

Disbursement schedule.
                                               Credit Allocated           % of

                                               (USD)                      Expenditures
            Category                                                      to be Financed


(1)    Goods                                         220,000             100% of foreign
                                                                         expenditures
                                                                         and 88% of local
                                                                         expenditures


(2)    Services
       a) Consultants, including audits              930,000             98%


       b) Other services                             160,000             100%of foreign
                                                                         expenditures and
                                                                         88% of local
                                                                         expenditures


(3)    Payments madeto                               12,300,000          100%
       Beneficiaries by FHIS
       as Sub-projects Grants


(4)   Training                                       390,000             100%


(5)   Unallocated                                     1,000,000

        TOTAL                                       15,000,000


                                                   45

Retroactive financing

41.    An amount of upto US$ 1.5 million will be made available for retroactive financing of eligible
expenditures incurredbetween project appraisal and effectiveness.




                                                46

                                          Annex 8: Procurement
                          -     HONDURAS: Nuestras RaicesProgram

1.       This section describesthe procurement arrangementsunder the Honduras: Nuestras Raices
Project. Bank-financedworks and goods contracts will be procuredinaccordancewith the World Bank
Guidelines: Procurementunder IBRD Loans and IDA credits, dated January 1995,revised in January
I999 (henceforth referred to as Procurement Guidelines). Bank financed contracts for consultingservices
will be awarded followingthe World Bank Guidelines Selectionand Employmentof Consultantsby
WorldBank Borrowers, dated January 1997,revised September 1997,January 1999and May 2002
(henceforth referred to as Consultant Guidelines). Project activities and procurement contracts not
financed by the Bank would be procured inaccordancewith nationalregulation. The project inputs,
estimated costs and procurement methodsunder the project are summarized inTable A and Al.

Procurement Responsibilities

2.       FHIS will have responsibility for overall procurement management and will ensure that
procurement procedures, criteriaand documentation agreed with the Bank are satisfactorily complied
with. This will include procurement under subprojects implementedby the Recipients of the Project and
their intermediaries, such as indigenous groups/federations, NGOs, etc. These responsibilities are
described inAnnex 4 and developed infurther detail inthe Operational Manual. Grant agreements
between FHIS and the communities would stipulate these procurement responsibilities and procedures.
FHIS is staffed with aProcurementunitsupported by procurement assistantsandheadedby a Director of
Contracting.

3.       A Project Launch Seminar will be scheduledafter Boardapprovaland will include aprocurement
refresher workshop for relevant FHIS personnel. Beneficiary representatives will receive procurement
trainingbefore subproject implementation.

ProcurementPlan

4.       A draft Procurement Planhas beenprepared for the project and will form the basis for
procurement. The Plan, which i s part of the Operational Manual, will be updated every six months to
reflect changes inprocurement process, which could significantly affect the timely and successful
implementation of the project. The procedures used for each type of procurement would be consistent
with those described inthe Credit Agreement and inthe PAD as well as with the stipulations of the
Operational Manual. The revisiondupdates inthe Procurement planwould be agreed with the Bank prior
to its implementation.




                                                     47

                           Table A: Project Costs by ProcurementArrangements
                                                (US$ million equivalent)

                                                                             Procurement
                                                                               Method


  ExpenditureCategory                        ICB          NCB                 Other            N.B.F."       Total Cost
 1. Subprojects (Community                                            13.30b'                 0.50          13.80
 ParticipationProcurement)
                                                                     (13.30)                  (0.00)        (13.30)
 2. Goods                                                            0.24''                                 0.24
                                                                     (0.22)                                 (0.22)
 3. ConsultingServices                                                1.ood/                                1.oo
                                                                     (0.95)                                 (0.95)
 4. Other Services                                                   0.1.5@                                 0.15
                                                                     (0.14)                                 (0.14)
 5. Training                                                         O.4le'                                 0.41
                                                                     (0.39)                                 (0.39)
 6. OperatingCosts                                                                            1.IOW         1.10
                                                                                              (0.0)         (0.0)
 Total                                                                15.10                   1.60          16.70
                                                                     (15.00)                  (0.00)        (15.OO)


     Note:
     Figures may not add up due to rounding.
     Figures in parenthesisare the amounts o f the Credit.




a/NBF- NonBank Financed.
b'Subprojects will consist of Works, Goods and Services up to an aggregate amount o f US$ 13.80equivalent. Minor
Civil Works (MCW) contracts of less than $50,000 per contract will be awarded on the basis of quotations obtained
from three qualified domestic contractors in responseto a written invitation. Goods contracts under $50,000 per
contract will be procured through National Shopping and subproject services under $50,000 per contract will be
awarded through a competitive selection process. Direct contracting may be used for goods contracts under $5,000.
'Subprojectfor
             Grants will also include payments for labor costs under community arrangements.
  Goods       FHISfNuestras Rakes consisting o f furniture, computer and office equipment procured through
'shopping. Printing and reproduction o f materials may also be procured under the shopping method.
  Consultant services as detailed in Table Al.
g/Other services suchas participatory monitoring, auto-diagnostics and other communitylfederations involvement
services.
  Project related costs and expenses for study tours, seminars, workshops and other training activities including
travel, accommodations, per diem, etc, for participants as well as cost for premises where training is held.
f'salaryand other expenditures o f FHIS procured according to national procedures.



                                                          48

CommunitvParticipationinProcurement

5.      ProcurementunderDemand-DrivenSubprojects(CommunityParticipation).The nature
and composition o f subprojects financed under the Project is described inAnnex 4. All subprojects will
be demand-driven initiatives (aggregate amount $13.80 equivalent). Indigenous and Afro-Hondurans
communities throughout Honduras are expectedto submit proposals for grant fundingusingresources
providedunder the Project. Subprojects' proposals will follow criteria specified inthe Operational
Manual, which provides a negative list of types of subprojects not eligible for fundingunder the project.
Intheinterestofcertainspecific socialobjectives oftheProject, itisdesirabletocallfor theparticipation
of local communities and NGOs, increase the utilization of local know-how and employ labor-intensive
and other appropriate technologies as statedinparagraph 3.15 in the "Guidelines".

6.      About 600 subproject proposals are expected to be received and processedby the FHIS/NR
duringimplementation.The criteria for the preparation, appraisal and approval of these subproject grants
by the FHIS/NR are described inAnnex 4 andthe OperationalManual.The grant amounts are
estimated at under US$50,000 equivalent (average subproject i s estimated at US$20,000). Subproject
proposals may include minor works, small quantities of goods, minor technical expertisehervices, or any
combination of these elements. The composition, dispersed origin and implementationtiming of the
approved subprojects do not make it feasible or practical to aggregateor consolidate the small
procurement items inthese grants into largepackages suitable for InternationalCompetitive Bidding
(ICB) or National Competitive Bidding (NCB) by a centralized procurement unit.Minorworks may be
procured under lump sum, fixed price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from at least
three qualified domestic contractors in responseto a written invitation. Ingeneral it is expectedthat the
community will contribute with labor/technical knowledge as well as materials and goods. Goods
packagesmay be procuredthrough Shoppingprocedures and awarded on the basis of comparison of
quotations obtained from at least three domestic suppliers inresponseto a written invitation. In
exceptional cases, goods up to an amount not to exceed US$5,000 equivalent per Grant may, be procured
through direct contractingprocedures with prior agreement with FHIS/NR, if the value of direct
contracting i s above US$5,000 it will require Bank's prior review. Minorservicescontracts under
subprojects would be procured usingcompetitive selection procedures. Sample biddingdocuments
developed inthe LAC Region would be adaptedfor these procurement procedures. These procurement
proceduresfor subprojects are described indetail inthe OperationalManual, and will be set forth inthe
Grant Agreements betweenthe FHIS and the Communities.

Goods

7.      Goods procured for the FHIS/NRand used for its operations will be financed by the Bank. These
items consist of a limitedquantity of office equipment, computer equipment andoff-the-shelf software,
and vehicles, as well as miscellaneous supplies for the operations of the FHIS/NR. Printingservices are
also to be procured under the project. Such procurement will be undertaken as follows: (a) Shoppingfor
packagesestimated at less than US$50,000 basedon comparingquotations solicited from at least three
qualified suppliers. (b) for contracts above US$50,000 and below US$ 150,000 NationalCompetitive
Biddingprocedureswill beused.

ConsultingServicesandOther Services

8.      Consulting Services contracts will consist of, but are not limitedto, development of strategic
plans for the federations, evaluation ex-post of the programs, auditing services, implementation of
strategies and design of training.




                                                     49

9.        Contracts for the services of the federations will consist of participatory monitoring, diagnostics
and other community involved services not included in the cost of the subproject as well as promotion
and visualization services. These services will be contracted as per the stipulations of the Operational
Manual. They are small value contracts and expected to be awarded to the qualified members of the
federations.




Quality and Cost Based Selection (QCBS) may be used for the larger contracts for strategic planning
and the evaluation ex-post.

Least Cost Selection (LCS) would be usedfor the auditing services.

Consultants Qualifications (CQ) may be usedfor the smaller strategic plans where there is enough
competition within the federation, and for the Visualization of the Program.

Sole Source (SS) will beusedfor the strategic plans of the federations that becauseof its remoteness, size
of population and languagesrequirements, does not merit competition.

OtherServices

Servicescontracted to the Federations (SCF) will consist of participatory monitoring, promotion of the
program or other related services. These services may be contracted to qualified individuals or groups
within the federations as the case may be. Proceduresand sample contractdagreements are contained in
the Operational Manual and in accordance with paragraph 3.19 of the Consultant Guidelines.

Individual

10.      Specialized advisory services (engineering, agriculture, anthropologist or others relatedto the
programs) providedby individual consultants will be selectedon the basis of their qualifications for the
assignment comparingCVs inresponseto an advertisement, and according to the provisions of the
paragraphs 5.1 through 5.4 of the Consultant's Guidelines.

Training
11.      Includes expenditures for cost of travel, accommodations and per diem incurred by trainees and
other participants in connection with the training/workshops as well as fees charged by academic or other
institutions. Training services include, but are not limitedto, training of trainers for participatory planning
process, to develop and cany out the strategic plans, training for sound implementation of approved
subprojects as well as capacity buildingfor FHISNRand stakeholders.

Operational Costs
12.      Salaries for the FHISNRpersonnel and operational costs would be government financed and
procured through regular GOHprocedures.

Custom Duties and Taxes
13.      All goods specifically importedfor the project will be subject to the payments of customduties
and local value addedtaxes. Works contracts are likewise subject to taxes (percentage built into the
contract price). Consultingfirms and individual consultants are also liable for the applicable taxes. The
aggregate value of taxes under the project i s estimated at US 0.1 million. All duties and taxes are paid
from the Government contribution.


                                                       50

                  Annex 8,Table AI :Consultant SelectionArrangements (optional)
                                           (in US millionequivalent)




                                            (0.14)   (0.07)     (0.21)    (0.15)

                Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
                         QBS     =Quality-based Selection
                         SFB     =Selection under aFixedBudget
                         LCS     =Least-Cost Selection
                         CQ      =Selection BasedonConsultants' Qualifications
                         SS      =Sole Source Selection
                         Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants
                                 Guidelines), CommercialPractices, etc.
                         N.B.F.=Not Bank-financed.
    Figures in parenthesisare the amounts to be financed by the Bank credit.


CapacitvAssessment ofthe Agency to ImplementProcurement:

ActionPlanfor Strengtheningthe FHIS/NRCapacityto Implement Procurement

14.     The NuestrasRaices Project was developed from the Mi component which was successfully
implemented under the Fourth and Fifth Social Investment FundProjects. Therefore this project i s
considered a repeaterproject and does not merit a new capacity assessment. FHIS has been implementing
subprojects with nearly the same organization since 2001. With the appointment of a new general
manager, FHIS is undergoinga positiverestructuringof its organization for a more agile implementation
of the programs that FHIS manages. Since most of the procurement under the project will be carried out
by the indigenous communities, the role of FHISNR is more of a facilitator and advisor to the
communities. FHIS is inthe processof recruiting a ContractingDirector (Director de Contratacih) with
extensive experienceinprocurement under subprojects. The following action plan has been agreed:

15.     The Director of the Procurement unit (Director de Contratacibn) has been hired and i s inplace as
a condition of negotiations. An advertisement was placed inthe local newspaper andevaluation of the
qualifiedcandidates was completed by the end of February.

16.     The Operational Manual has beenprepared and a draft has beenreviewedby the Bank.
Compliance and coordination with the Credit Agreement will needto be ensured.




                                                   51

17.      A ProjectLaunch seminarwill be organized before June 2004, with a special segment on the
procurement arrangements under the project.

18.      Additional seminars on procurement issues will be organized by the FHISLNRunit throughout the
life of the project, to keep the communities updatedon the different processesand guidelines under their
specific subprojects.

Review bv the Bank of Procurement Decisions

Prior Bank review would be required before final decisions on contract awards are made on Bank-
financed activities, for the following procurement actions:

Subproject grants:The first three grants regardlessof value will be subject to prior review by the Bank,
for consistency with the agreedcriteria. Under these subprojects, the Bank will also conduct aprior
review of the following contracts procured by the grant recipients:

         -small works: the first contract and all works contracts above US$50,000;
         -goods:the first goods contract and all goods contracts above US$50,000 per contract; as well as
         any direct contracting above US $5,000;
         -consultant services: the first three contracts.

Procurement by the FHIS/NR:

         -training: the proposed annual spending program for training    .
         -consultant services: (a) all contracts with firms of US$lOO,OOO andabove; (b) all contracts with
         individuals of US$50,000 and above; and (c) Fullreview of RFP, technical and financial
         evaluation and the contract for the provision of audit services selectedin accordance with Least
         Cost selection method and all contracts under single source selection regardlessof value. Terms
         of Reference for all assignmentswill be subject for prior review regardlessof value.
         -goods: (a) the first contract procured through NCB and the first under Shopping.

19.      Ex-post review of all other contracts will be carried out by Bank supervision missions. Table C
summarizes applicable procurement procedures and review requirements. Ex-post reviews on a random
basis would also be undertaken by the FHISLNR and the Bank, of the procurement carried out by the
Recipients inthe process of implementingtheir subprojects.




                                                     52

       Annex 8, Table B: Thresholdsfor ProcurementMethodsand Prior Review




                         US $ thousands                                US$ millions
1. Works
                                                     ICB            None expected
                                                    NCB             None expected
                                               Three Quotations     Above US$50,000
2. Goods
                                                     ICB            None expected
                                                    NCB             Firstcontract
                                                  Shopping          Above US$50,000

3. Consultants
Firms                       >loo                    QCBS            All

                           < 100               QCBS, LCS, CQ        None (Post Review),
                                                                    TORSonly


Individuals                 >50                See Section V of     All (TOR, contract,
                                                  Guidelines        cv>
                            c 50                                    Review of TOR only
Other Services              >50               See Section 3.19 of   All
                                                the Guidelines
                            e 50                                   INone (Post Review)



      Overall ProcurementRisk Assessment:
                  High
                  Average
                             ~

                  Low

      Frequencyof procurementsupervisionmissionsproposed: One every 6 month(s)
      (includesspecial procurementsupervisionfor post-review) reviewing a sample of 1 in 5
      contractssigned.




                                         53

Table C:                      NCB         Shopping          Small          3ther Methods   Percentage
~                 I C B
Summary of                                                  Works                          of credit
Procurement                                                                                amount
Activities                                                                                 subject to
Section 1:                                                                                 prior
Procurement                                                                                review
Review
Subvroiects                                                                ?ara.3.15 of
Procurement                                                                hidelines.
thresholds                                                                 MCW under
[ndividual    and                                                          650,000
aggregate                                                                  3oods under
                                                                           550,000
                                                                           Servicesunder
                                                                           E50,OOO
                                                                           kggregate:
                                                                           $ 13.80 million
Goods
Procurement                   Above       Below $50,000
Lhresholds:                   $50,000
[ndividual    and                         Aggregate:
aggregate                                 $300,000
Prior Review                  First       First contract and               First 3 Grants
                              contract    all contract for                 And the first 3
                                          Subprojects                      :ontracts for
                                          above $50,000                    services under
                                          Direct                           the subprojects
                                          :ontracting for
                                          goods above
                                          $5.000
                  QBCS        QB          Least Cost        Consultant     Single-         Individual
                  (firms)                                   Qualificatio   Source          Consultants
                                                            ns
Consultants       $0.39                   <0:15 million     $0.08          $0.22           $0.16
                                                            million
Prior Review      Full                    Full review       All TORs       Full review     All TORs
                  review                                    TOR,                           TOR,qualifi
                                                            qualification                  cations anc
                                                             S        and                  contract foi
                                                            contract for                   all
                                                            all                            assignment
                                                            assignments                    contracts
                                                            Above                          above
                                                            $100,000                       $50,000




 Ex-post Review Ex-post review mechanism: Review carried out in accordance with Para. 4 of Appendix 1 of
                the Bank's Guidelines and reviews during supervision missions.




                                                     54

                                Annex 9: Economic andFinancialAnalysis
                                 HONDURAS: Nuestras RaicesProgram

Economic Analysis

 1.      The Nuestras RaicesProject includes "framework" type projects, that is, those inwhich most of
the major investments are not identified or designed before credit effectiveness; rather, what i s appraised
ex-ante i s the mechanism for deliveringthe outputs. Becauseof the demand-driven nature of Nuestras
Raices, the specific social rate of return cannot be knownex-ante. This economic analysis assesses the
mechanisms and methodology in place to ensure that the subprojects implemented are part of a macro
strategic development plan which reflects the vision and needs of each one of the nine ethnic groups in
Honduras.

Economic Analysis of the Nuestras RaicesProgram as a Delivery Mechanism of the Micro-planning
Strategy

2.      At the macrolevel, the local planningprocess inHonduras iscarriedout by municipalities.Given
that local governments do not always respond to the needs of ethnic groups, the proposed project usestwo
mechanisms to reach the disadvantagedethnic peoples: (i)     through the micro- and macro-planning
processes; and(ii) through the actual implementationof their Ethnic Development Plans which are
informed by RegionalEthnic Development Plans andEthnic Community Development Plans.

3.      Strategic planning i s a mechanism geared towards integrated planningwithin eachethnic group,
preserving its culture and identity. Strategic Development Plans may include subprojects involving
infrastructure as well as other aspects of social and economic development. The processof elaboration of
the above-mentioned development plans will serve three economic purposes: (a) it will prepare
communitiesto participate in and benefit from the annualhi-annual municipal planningprocesses; (b) it
will implement approximately 600- 700priority subprojects; and (c) it will leave the Community
Development Plans inthe hands of the beneficiaries and provide them with managerial skills to capture
other public and private investments.

4.      For the purpose of cultural sensitivity, the planning processwill be carried out by the Technical
Unitsof ethnic federations representing the nine ethnic peoples (Lenca,Tawahka, Chorti, English-
speaking Black, Miskito, Tolupanes, Pech, Nahoa, and Garifuna) following participatory procedures
which legitimize the process.

5.      Inaccordancewith the project's Operational Manual, an ex-ante appraisal of all the Nuestras
Raices subprojects selectedfor implementationwill be conducted. Technical and social ex-ante
evaluation i s basedon the participatory diagnostic analysis executed a priori.

6.      Some technical aspects determiningthe feasibility of the investment are: (i)   number of
beneficiaries; (ii) and education infrastructure follows norms for operation and maintenance
                  health
dictated by the corresponding line ministries which must guaranteea sustainable operation; (iii)    legal
tenure of the land on which the project will be built; (iv) vulnerability and riskof natural disasters; (v)
approximate cost, to compare it with the linea de corte; (vi) incase of water and sanitation subprojects,
the appropriate technical and environmental feasibility studies will be needed; and (vii) community
commitment and financial proofof intended maintenance.

7.      Subproject selection criteria is not basedentirely on cost but rather on its social impact and ability
to respond to specific needs, as decided by beneficiaries. The total cost per subproject should only exceed


                                                      55

US$50,000 inexceptionalcases (e.g. horizontalsubprojects). All subproject types are eligible for funding
except for those inthe "negative list" includedinthe project's Operational Manual (chapter 2, e.g.
cemeteries, guns, drugs).

8.        Several social mechanismsfor screeningprojects will be undertaken to ensurethat they are social
and economically justified. These mechanismsare described inthe Nuestras Raices Operational Manual,
chapters 3 and 4. Several criteria for project selection includes: (i)the subproject must benefit the entire
community; (ii)   the subproject has been identifiedand prioritized by the community assembly and i s part
of the community development plan; (iii)     the subproject does not depend on other projects for its efficient
operation; (iv) the community must be willing to contribute 10percent or more of the total cost of the
subproject incash or inkind; and (v) the location of the project i s accessibleby the beneficiary
community.


analysis, financial soundness, community participation, environmentalimpact and sustainability.The
9.       Both a desk anda field appraisal will cover the technical and social feasibility, economic

selection of the Committee (or Association, or Cooperative) responsible for project implementationwill
be carried out by the community basedon a set of a priori-established criteria. The Nuestras Raices
Programi s responsible for training such Committees inproject management and administration and
ensuring its institutional soundness.

10.      Project funds will be disbursed directly to restricted accounts open at a Bank under the name of
Project ImplementationCommittee, or through other payment procedures. General norms and procedures
for transferring of resources and submission of financial reports are described inchapter 12 of the
Operational Manual.

11.      The economic soundness of Nuestras Raices subprojects will be monitoredthrough: (i)         FHIS's
MIS andtracking of project indicators at various stages of the projects cycle; and (ii)     FHIS's annual
financial audits. Inaddition, biannualoperational audits (spot checks) will be carried out based on a
randomly selected sample of subprojects.

FinancialAnalysis:

12.      Public sector expenditure in Honduras representsapproximately 30 percent (excluding central
government wages and salaries) of the GDP (2002, CAS). However, accordingto the ECLACreport
(December 2003)", Honduras' per capita social expenditures are the lowest inLatin America ($57 pp in
1997), and only respond to 7.4 percent of the PIB.Although the largest annual public investment is in
education ($32 per capita) and health ($16 per capita), even in these sectors, Honduras' deficit of
education inrural areas is as highas 29.3 percent for the population in general and over 40 percent for
ethnic groups. Among these groups, illiteracy runs as highas 46 percent for the Tolupan (Census 2001).
Social spendingprograms fall short of covering basic needsparticularly in remote rural areas where the
bulkof the ethnic groups live.

13.      Fiscal implications, both duringand after implementation of the project, are expected to be
manageable.Fiscal implications duringproject implementation would include: (a) covering the
administrative costs of FHIS,particularly the Nuestras Raices unit, over the project period; and (b) partial
financing of subprojects. The GOHcounterpart requirement for the Nuestras Raices Project over the
three-year implementation period is estimated at US$1,2 million or 8% of total project costs. The law


I'Naciones Unidas. Comisi6n Econ6mica para AmCrica Latina y el Caribe - CEPAL. Pobreza y Vulnerabilidad
Social: Mercado de Trabajo e Inversi6n Social en el Istmo Centroamericano a Inicios del Milenio. LC/MEX/L.586.
22 de diciembre de 2003.


                                                       56

establishing FHIS specifies that the budget of the fundi s guaranteedby Government funds once the
project i s approved by Congress.

14.      Inthe case that communities prioritizethe financing of social and economic infrastructure, these
would be coordinatedwith the respective line ministries and be replacements so that, ingeneral, no
additionalrecurrentcosts would becreated.For those exceptional subprojects that entail an increasein
Government expenditures on recurrent costs, prior endorsement of the subproject by the relevant line
ministry would continue to berequired. Such inter-institutionalcoordinationhas considerably improved
duringrecent years so that the financial implicationsare manageable.

15.      Contributionsfrom communitieswho receive grants for subprojects arecalculated at twelve
percent (incash or inkind) of the total cost of each community subproject, basedon previous experience
with Nuestras Raices andother FHISprojects which indicate that such contribution tends to exceed 20
percent.

16.      Operationandmaintenance(O&M) of completed subprojects is estimated to average 2 percent
of investment costs, which is expectedto bome largely by communities (inaccordance with subproject
maintenance plans developed basedon the trainingcommunities receive inO&M issues). Operation and
maintenance of subprojects are important criteria for subproject selection. These issues will be discussed
prior to subproject implementationwith each eligible community and agreementswill be madeas part of
the grant agreement on how to operate and maintainthe project. FHIS/NR will assess the institutional
capacity of the Project ImplementationCommittees to carry out the subprojects andto ensure subsequent
financial and technical sustainability of subprojects.As the Committees are able to procure and contract
goods and services locally, a positive impact on savings i s expected. Communities are trained to use
savings for purposes agreedon by the community group, including a maintenance fund or enhancementof
the project itself.




                                                    57

                                      Annex 10: Safeguard Policy Issues
                                   HONDURAS: NuestrasRaicesProgram


1.SOCIAL SAFEGUARDS

Social Analysis

1.       The Nuestras RaicesProject is targeted entirely to indigenous and Afro-Honduran peoples,
therefore the project itself i s considered to be an Indigenous Peoples Development Plan (IPDP) consistent
with the O.D. 4.20 (or the revised O.D. 4.10).

2.      The elements usedfor the social analysis of this project included: (a) the results of the ex-post
evaluation of the previous projects (NR IV and V), carried out in 2002; and (b) a series of seven 1to 5-
day workshops with the indigenous and Afro Honduran representations indifferent parts of the country,
as part of project preparation. The ex-post evaluation included a household survey of beneficiary and non-
beneficiary households andfocus groups with direct beneficiaries and interviews with stakeholders, to
measure social and economic impact. The evaluation was used to identify strengths and weaknesses of the
program, capitalize on lessonslearned, re-evaluate development priorities with participants, and set out a
long-term planof interventions for indigenous and Afro-Honduran peoples.

3.      Seven project preparation workshops were carried out betweenJuly 2003 to January 2004, with
the participation of the nine ethnic representations, FHIS,and frequent Bank presence, as follows:


        -.   July 2003: Discussion of results of Nuestras Raices ex-post evaluation and lessons learned.
             Tegucigalpa.
             August and September2003: Informed consultation on Nuestras RaicesV objectives and
             strategies.Tegucigalpa.
             October 2003: Discussion of the program's philosophical andconceptual framework, basic
             principles and conceptsof project design. L aEsperanza, Intibuch.
        =    October and November 2003: Elaboration of PECManual by O M Task Force.
        =    January 2004: Revisions of PECINHManualand review of project design, legaland
             operational guidelines, and logical framework. Siguatepeque, Comayagua.

4.      Duringprojectpreparation, the representations of ethnic groups participated inevery step of the
project design. After every workshop, the delegates of each group consulted with their respective
assemblies. Inorder to develop the Operational Manual (OM), that would be acceptable and culturally
adaptedto the needs of the ethnic groups, an "OM Commission" was created, made up of nine
representativesof the ethnic federations. This commission worked out the details of the O M with a local
consultant. Inthe sixth workshop, it was agreed that further adaptation of the methodologicalguidelines
and forms may be neededto satisfy language and logistics requirements of each group. Beneficiarieswill
continue to participate through implementation, monitoring and evaluationof the project.

Identification of Risks

5.      Given the participatory nature of project preparation, the safeguards-relatedrisks have been
minimized, but needto be continuously monitoredduringproject. For instance:

6.      Proliferation offederutions. To support the unity of the ethnic representations, atripartite (FHIS,
ethnic federations, Bank team) decision was made to maintain `one representation per ethnic group' for



                                                       58

the purposesof the Nuestras Raices Project. This strategy also supports efforts of the ethnic peoples for
the future reconfiguration of the latent Confederation of Autochthonous Peoples of Honduras
 (CONPAH).

 7.       Legal status agreement. Following the Bank's Fiduciary Managementfor Community-Driven
Development Projects: A Reference Guide (May 2002), and in agreement with all involved parties, the
 "legal status" of the Project ImplementationCommittees (PIC) will be an option-encouraged and
facilitated by the project-but     not a requirement. Consistent with the OD 4.20, communities will be
encouragedto select already existing organizations that fulfill minimalrequirements as the PIC for the
purposesof the project, instead of creating new ones.

Gender Equity12

8.        The gender roles and responsibilities inethnic groups inHonduras are culturally specific and the
participation of men and women differ from one ethnic group to another. Since the overall objective of
the Nuestras Raices Program i s to increase participationof the ethnic groups and their access to resources,
it i s important to integrate gender equity into the approach. Since its inception, the NR Programhas had a
gender focus. Results from the ex-post evaluation showed women made up 43 percent of the general
coverage of benefi~iaries.'~

9.        Buildingon past gender practice inthe programandinconsultationwith the ethnic groups, the
Nuestras Raices team developed a gender strategy with the objective to14:

          (a) Ensure equal participationof men and women at the beneficiary level-targeting                women in
               some ethnic groups where they often have beenexcludedinthe past (Mayas, Chortis, Pech)
               and men where they have beenexcluded inthe past (Garifuna andMiskito);
          (b) Address gender inthe capacity-buildingefforts that cut across programactivities (at all
               levels), thereby supporting equal participation of men and women inthe training of human
               resources. This would support the activities throughout the project cycle from design through
               monitoring and evaluation with a goal of 50 percent participation of women and 50 percent
               participationof men inall programactivities; and
          (c) Address gender specific needs-this would include leadership training for women on a
               variety of issues including community leadership, project management, as members of the
               implementationcommittee, and managerial positions.




l2 While sex refers to the biological state of being male or female, gender refers to the social state of being a manor
woman. Gender is a variable-like class, ethnicity, nationality, and religion- usedto "identify and measure
differences in the roles of men and women, the activities they undertake,the responsibilities they have, the
opportunities andconstraintsthey face, and ultimately, their well-being. Gender is dynamic becausemen's and
women's roles-as dictated by changing social and cultural normsand values-also vary over time'. Moser, C.,
Tornqvist,A,, van Bronkhorst, B.1998. Mainstreaming Gender andDevelopmentinthe World Bar& Progressand
Recommendations.The World Bank, ESSD,WashingtonD.C.
l3 ESA Consultores,"Evaluacion del Programa"Nuestras Raices" -Etapa IV (January 2003).
l4 genderstrategywasdevelopedincollaborationwith"ProgramforGenderMainstreaminginWorldBank-
   The
financedProjectsin CentralAmerica-PROGENIAL" which was createdby the World BanksLatinAmerica region
in 2000. The purpose of the programis to addressthe challengesrelated to gender equality and equity in the sub-
region by providing targeted technical assistanceto 38 governmentprojects benefiting from World Bank financing.
PROGENIAL has beenfunded by a Japan Policy and HumanResourcesDevelopment (PHRD) Grant (2000-03) and
is at present sponsored by the Bank - NetherlandsPartnership'swindow for Capacity building (2003-2005).



                                                          59

10.     Consequently, training programs, methodologies and materials will incorporate gender
systematically to ensure that gender i s addressed throughout the project cycle. Equally, the monitoring
and evaluation systemfor the project includes gender specific indicators to document changes over time.
Finally, the NR team inFHIS will continue to include a gender specialist to ensure that gender i s
implementedthroughout the project cycle.


2. ENVIRONMENTAL SAFEGUARDS

11.     The projecthasbeenclassifiedas CategoryBwithsafeguardscreeningcategoryof Sf. Even
though the Nuestras Rakes Project has beenconceived to contribute to the development of indigenous
and Afro-Honduran communities, empowering them to manage and implement their own projects to
improve their living conditions, the possibility to finance small-scale infrastructure in sensitive areas
mightcause potentially adverseenvironmental impacts.

12.     The identification of subprojects will be carriedout through a participatory development planning
process, which includes training modules to increaseenvironmental awareness. The project will allow
communities to select subprojects in accordanceto their priorities, only restricted by a "negative" list of
subprojects which are not eligible for financing. Communities are expected to identify, among others,
small vertical infrastructuresubprojects (reconstructionhehabilitation of schools, healthcenters, small
markets), water and sanitation services(reconstruction/ rehabilitation of piped systems, poweredor hand
water pumps, latrines, septic tanks), domestic solid waste management subprojects, as well as
environmental and risk managementinfrastructure, activities and services (forestation, reforestation,
erosion control, flood prevention), or environment friendly productive projects (environment friendly
coffee mills, waste water reuse, etc.). Given the nature of these subprojects, it i s expected that negative
environmental impacts would be site-specific due to the nature of the respective subproject.

13.     EnvironmentalInstrumentsincludedinthe OperationalManual.The projectpreparation
team reviewedthe scope and instruments for environmental assessment incorporated inthe PEC
Operations Manual. Reviews includedcomparison with existing SocialFundEnvironmental guidelines
and the FHIS environmentalcriteria for project assessment. It is concluded that the PEC Operations
Manual includes the necessary steps to ensurethat environmental assessment issues are adequately
addressedinthe subproject cycle. These are:

             Environmentalprotectionpolicyoutlined throughout the OperationalManual.The O M
             clearly states the environmental protection will be enforcedthroughout the different possible
             interventions financed by the NR Project, including community training, enforcing
             environmental norms and standardsavailable in the country. Communities will select and
             appoint, as part of their responsibilities for managinggrant funds, an environmentalwatch
             man ("vigilante ambiental") who will be trained under the project and who will be
             responsible for the subprojects environmentalaudit ("contraloria ambiental").

        e   EnvironmentalMonitoringIndicators.Basedon FHIS's already existingandtestedex-ante
             andex-post evaluation criteriafor water and sanitation, environmental indicators for
             subproject appraisal will be applied duringthe respective project cycle stages and will be
            included inthe ex post monitoring and inthe final project evaluation.

        e    Community trainingmodulesthat accompany the implementation of the subprojects are
            designedto raise environmental awarenessand protect the environment. Three out of nine
            community training modules address environmental issues such as sustainability and
            mitigation measures, and environmental risk management.


                                                       60

         0   Environmentaltopics addressed throughout the project cycle. The environmental
             assessment of subproject i s integrated inthe pre-appraisal and appraisal stages of the sub
             project cycle. The methodology used to elaboratethe community development plans will help
             communities identify their environmental surroundings and environmental issues associated
             with any chosen subprojects. The design and evaluation phase of the subprojects will ensure
             that environmentally soundprojects are prepared, and that environmental mitigation and risk
             managementmeasures are included where necessary. Subproject supervision and monitoring
             will ensure the implementation of training modules and mitigation measures defined inthe
             subproject design. Post-construction monitoring will reinforcethe community's
             environmental sustainability commitments, and if needed, the project will finance additional
             training (the maintenancetraining module addresses environmental sustainability in three
             sessions: ElFuturo de la Comunidad, ElUs0 y el MantenimientoPreventivo and Comunidad
             y la Protecci6n de su Ambiente).

14.     Implementationarrangements. The NRteam and FHIS Environmental Unit (FHIS UGA) will
coordinate for the preparation of training modules and to carry out the environmentalinstruments
designed for subproject appraisal and monitoring. The PEC Operational Manual incorporates instruments
that will be employed as part of the implementationprocess of the NR Program, which can be adjusted in
accordancewith the subproject's needs. Inaddition, the NRteam, with support from FHIS's UGA, will
coordinate, when possible, with the municipal environmental unitsinthe environmentalassessment of
subprojects andinthe monitoringof the mitigation measures financed by the program.

15.     Nuestras Rakes Program Environmental Action Plan(EAP). The project's EAPdeveloped
by FHIS identifies the costs of activities associatedwith the capacity building, translation and
reproduction of materials, and monitoring costs requiredfor adequately addressing environmental aspects
of the project.




                                                     61

                           Annex 11: ProjectPreparationandSupervision
                                HONDURAS: NuestrasRaicesProgram



                                                         Planned               Actual
PCNreview                                                                 September 8,2003
Initial PIDto PIC                                                         February 19,2004
Initial ISDS to PIC                                                       February 19,2004
Appraisal                                                                  March 8,2004
Negotiations                                                               March 8,2004
Board/RVP approval                                                          May 4,2004
Planneddate of effectiveness                                              September 15,2004
Planned date of mid-termreview                                             December, 2005
Planned closing date                                                        May 31,2008

Key institutions responsible for preparation of the project:

Fondo Hondurefiode Inversidn Social (FHIS)

Bank staff and consultants who worked on the project included:

Name                                                Title                     Unit
Andrea Vermehren                    Sr. Social Protection Specialist &      LCSHD
                                    Team Leader
Helena Ribe                         Country Sector Leader                   LCSHD
PilarE.Gonzalez                     Country Counsel                         LEGLA
FabiolaAltimari                     Consultant                              LEGLA
Rajeev Swami                        Financial Mgmt. Specialist              LCOAA
Evelyn Villatoro                    Sr. Procurement Specialist              LCOPR
Catherine Gibbons                   Social Development Specialist           LCSHD
Ximena Traa-Valarezo                Social Evaluation Specialist            LCSHD
R e d Rodriguez                     Social FundSpecialist                   LCSHD
Martin Ochoa                        Water & Sanitation Specialist           EWDAN
PatriciaOma                         Language ProgramAssistant               LCSHD



Bank funds expendedto date on project preparation:
1. Bank resources:     50,000
2. Trust funds:        $0
3. Total:              50,000

Estimated Approval and Supervision costs:
1. Remaining coststo approval: $25,000
2. Estimatedannual supervision cost: US$80,000




                                                    62

                       Annex 12: Summaryof Resultsfrom ExpostEvaluation
                               HONDURAS: NuestrasRaicesProgram

1.     An ex post evaluation of the NuestrasRaices(NR)program, conducted by ESA Consultores,
concluded that the NR programwas very successfulinmeetingits objectives. More specifically, it
presentedthe following findings:

2.     Program Strengths:

       9 TheNuestrasRaiceswas highly effectiveintargeting its resourcestobenefitextremely poor
           communities and households. 73percent of beneficiary households belong to the bottomthree
            income categories (national average: 50%).
       9 The EthnicFederationswere effectiveinpromotingtheprogramintheethnic communities
            andthe programservedto increasetheir legitimacy and buildtheir managementcapacity.
       9 The evaluation confirmedthat theprojects selectedrepresentedtheprioritiesidentifiedbythe
           communities. It also found that 76percent of the community members interviewed felt that
           they had or would benefit from the project implemented.
       9 Theproject was effectiveinexecuting small-scale projects that satisfiedcommunity needsfor
            social and economic infrastructure.
       9 Theprogramwas effectiveinputtingcashinthe handsof the groupmembersandin
           promotingthe culture of savings, with 56 percent of the groups organizingCajas Rurales.
       9 The projectpromotedgenderequity, with male andfemale participation inthe groups
           roughly equal and women representing 41 percent of the Caja membership and60 percent of
           the Caja elected leadership.

3.     The evaluation also noted some aspects of the program that required strengthening.

4.     Weaknesseswerefound in thefollowing areas:

       9 There was nofundingavailable for project materials. Thislimitedcommunitiesto
           implementingprojects that requiredonly labor and were, inturn, less sustainable.
       k Thetrainingprovidedto coordinators for dissemination amongworking groups was not
           effective in penetratingdown to the local community level, where it was needed.
       9 Thecommunities' understandingoftheCajaRuralmanagement was insufficient.

5.     To buildon the strengths of the programand addressthese short-comings, the evaluation team
made the followingrecommendations:

       9 Continue tousethe targeting strategythat hasprovenhighlyeffective inreachingextremely
           poor households.
       9 Allow investments inlarger scaleinfrastructure projects (increase amount assignedper
           group).
       9 Transformthe programto acommunity-based investment anddevelopment program.
       9 Allow thecommunities touseaportionof the resourcestopurchasematerialsandtechnical
           assistance to carry out more complex and better quality projects.
       9 ThroughtheEthnic Federations,promotethe concept of donatedcommunitylaborfor project
           execution and maintenance.Provide training and, possibly, resources (tools, etc.) for project
           maintenance.




                                                  63

> The training strategy should be revised so that it serves to buildthe self-management
  capacities of the communities. On-goingtechnical assistance should be provided to the
  communities as they progress through each phase of the project cycle.
9 Rethinkthe cajaruralcomponent, while buildinguponthe foundations that have already been
> established.
  Promote the creation of regional level cajas to achieve greater economies of scale andto
  facilitate the delivery of training and technical assistance.
9 Promotetheinvolvementof anorganization that is specialized inmicrofinanceto strengthen
 the caja ruralcomponent of the program




                                            64

                         Annex 13: Documents inthe Project File
                        HONDURAS: Nuestras Raices Program




1. OperationalManualfor "Proyectos Ejecutados por laComunidad" (Draft), Honduras, August 13,
   2003 - FHIS
2. Impact EvaluationReport, May 19,2003 - ESA Consultants
3. Expert Report on "Cajas Rurales / Microfinance", June 2-14, 2003 - Norah Becerra
4. OED EvaluationNuestras Raices as part of the Evaluationof the OD 4.20 -Summary Report:
   Results of SelectedWorld Bank Interventions on the Indigenous and Afro Caribbean Populations
   inHonduras
5. Report on Gender on Nuestras Raices, Agosto 2003 - PROGENIALand FHIS
6. Nuestras Rakes - Spectrum (article)
7. "Thinking Out Loud", EmpoweringAutochthonous Peoples inHonduras with Knowledge and
   Mechanisms for Social Auditing: The Nuestras Raices (Our Roots) Program- Ximena Traa-
   Valarezo / World Bank, Washington D.C. and Jorge Rodriguez/ FHIS, Honduras
8. Summary of Workshop with Ethnic Federations, August 2003 - Aide-Memoire, Annex 1
9. Project Appraisal Document for the Honduras FifthSocial Investment Fund, Washington D.C.,
   November 20, 2000 - Report No. 21355-HO / World Bank
10.Pobrezay Vulnerabilidad Social: Mercadode Trabajo e Inversi6nSocialen el Istmo
   Centroamericano a Inicios del Milenio, Naciones Unidas, December 22, 2003 - CEPAL




                                             65

                                            Annex 14: Statement of Loansand Credits
                                               HONDURAS: NuestrasRakesProgram
                                                                                                                      Difference between
                                                                                                                     expected and actual
                                                              Original Amount inUS$Millions                             disbursements

Project ID   FY    Purpose                                  IBRD       IDA      SF       GEF    Cancel.   Undisb.    Orig.     Frm. Rev'd

PO40177     2003   HNFinancialSector TechnicalAssistance      0.00      9.90     0.00     0.00     0.00     10.09     0.00         0.00
PO81172     2003   HNRegionalDevinthe CopanValley             0.00      12.00    0.00     0.00     0.00     12.10     0.00         0.00
PO57859     2002   HNSUSTCOASTALTOURISM                       0.00      5.00     0.00     0.00     0.00      4.17      1.30         1.97
                   PROJECT(LIL)
PO53575     2002   HN-HEALTHSYSTEMREFORM                      0.00     27.10     0.00     0.00     0.00     28.48     -1.52        0.00
                   PROJECT
PO60785     2001   HNECONOMIC & ".MANAGEMENT                  0.00      19.00   0.00      0.00     0.00     12.69     14.53        0.00
                   PROJECT
PO07397     2001   HNCOMMUNITY-BASED EDUCATION                0.00     41.50    0.00      0.00     0.00     37.38     15.42        0.00
                   PROJECT
PO64895     2001   HNFIFTHSOCIAL INVESTMENT                   0.00     60.00    0.00      0.00     0.00     23.86     -1.37        0.00
                   FUNDPROJECT
PO73035     2001   HNAccess to LandPilot(PACTA)               0.00      8.00    0.00      0.00     0.00      6.45     3.52         0.00
PO57538     2001   HNROADRECONSTRUCTIONAND                    0.00     66.50    0.00      0.00     0.00     42.18      3.33        0.00
                   IMPROVEMENT
PO64913     2000   HNEMERGDISASTERMGMT (TAL)                  0.00      10.82    0.00     0.00     0.00      7.18     0.94         0.00
PO57350     1999   HNPROFUTURO                                0.00      8.30    0.00      0.00     0.00      3.78     -0.49        3.41
PO44343     1998   GEFHN-BIODIVERSITY                         0.00      0.00     0.00     7.00     0.00      2.44      7 00        0.00
                   CONSERVATION
PO07398     1997   HNRURALLAND MGMT                           0.00     34.00    0.00      0.00     0.00      0.74     -5.43        -5.42

                                                    Total:    0.00   302.12      0.00     7.00     0.00    191.54     37.23      - 0.04



                                                             HONDURAS
                                                       STATEMENTOFIFC's
                                                     Heldand DisbursedPortfolio

                                                               Committed                                Disbursed
                                                             IFC                                      IFC
        FY Approval   Company                     Loan       Equity     Quasi    Partic.   Loan       Equity     Quasi      Partic.

        1998         CaminoRealPlaz               1.07        0.00        0.00     0.00      7.07      0.00       0.00        0.00
                     Elcosa                       0.00        0.63        0.00     0.00      0.00      0.63       0.00        0.00
        0195
        1986199      Granjas Marinas              4.50        0.00       0.00      0.00      4.50      0.00      0.00         0.00

                                 Total portfilio:  11.57      0.63       0.00      0.00     11.57      0.63       0.00        0.00




                                                                            Approvals PendingCommitment
                      FY Approval    Company                            Loan      Equity      Quasi       Partic.




                                          Total pendingcommitment:      0.00        0.00       0.00        0.00




                                                                   66

                                                Annex 15: Countryat a Glance
                                         HONDURAS: NuestrasRakesProgram
                                                             Latin   Lower-
 POVERTY and SOCIAL                                        America  middle-
                                                 Honduras &Carib.   income           )evelopment diamond*
 2002
                    (millions)                          68     527     spn                       Lifeexpectancy
                    method, US$)                             3280      1,390
 GNI(Atlas method, US$tntlions)                               1,727    3,352

Average annual growth, 1996-02                                                                         T
 Population ("A)                                        26      15       10
Laborforce(%)                                           37      22       12          3NI                                 Gross
                                                                                     )er                               primary
M o s t recent estimate (latest year available, 1996-02)                             :apita                          nroliment

                                                        5       76       49
                                                        66       71      69                            1
                                                         31     27       30
                  %ofchildrenunder5)                     n        9                       Access to imDrovedwater source
                                                        86      86
                                                        24       n
                                                       106                            -Honduras
                                                       x)5                               _ _ Lower-middle-incomegroup
                                                       107



                                            1982     1992    2001

                                               2.9     3.4
                                               141    260     30.5
                                             25.9     29.8
                                              P O      8.0
                                               5.9     15.8

                                              -7.9    -7.5
                                               3.8     47
                                                 5    lt38    78.9

                                                         ..
                                                         ..   493
                                                             102.0                                 Indebtedness


                                                                                       ~ H o n d u r a s



STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY                                                                                                      I
                                            1982     1992    2001     2002          Growth of investment and GDP (%)
("'%ofGDP)                                                                                                                    I
Agriculture                                  21.6     20.4    t3.7                  10
Industry                                     24.4     29.6    315                    5
 Manufacturing                               14.7     V.8     20.3                   0
Services                                     53.9     50.0    54.8

Privateconsumption                           75.0     69.4    72.3                  -5

Generalgovernmentconsumption                  t3.1     115    x3.8
Importsof goods andservices                  28.1     36.6    54.9                            -GDI           &GDP


                                        1982-92 1992-02               2o02
(averageannualgrowth)                                                              Growth of exports and imports       ( O h )

Agriculture                                   3.5      15     -0.9                 M
Industry                                      3.5      3.2      16                  5
 Manufacturing                                4.1      4.1     5.2,                 0
Services                                      3.0      3.6     4.5        ......   -5
Private consumption                           3.0     2.9      3.8              - -10
Generalgovernment consumption                 2.4     4.6      11.3       ....                                               -
                                                                                  .15
Gross domestic investment                     9.0     3.9     -3.9
Imports of goods andservices                  4.1     3.3      3.6                         -Exports         -Imports




                                                                67

                                                                                                         Honduras

PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
                                        1982   1992    2001    2002
Domestic prices                                                           Inflation (%)                              I
(%change)
Consumer prices                                  8.8      9.7      8.1
ImplicitGDP deflator                      44      9.1     8.6     7.3

Government finance
("A of GDP, includes currentgrants)
Current revenue                          u 5     n.7     18.2     19.7           97      98    99     w      01
Current budget balance                    -15     16     -0.4     0.3
Overallsumlus/deficit                    -x3 1   -3.8     -8.1   -7.0             -GDPdeflatOr        -CPI


TRADE
                                        1982   1992    2001    2002
(US5 millions)                                                           Export and import levels (US$ mill.)

Total exports (fob)                      677     833    1,379   1,435
  Bananas                                 2 8    256     204
  Coffee                                  153    147      161
  Manufactures
Total imports (cif)                      739   1,086   2,997   2,979    2.645
  Food                                    134    a4     480
  Fuelandenergy                           167     161   402
                                                                        I                                            I
  Capitalgoods                            115    201    867      904        0

Ewort priceindex(1995=X)O)                        81      90       89           96   97    98   99    00     01

Importpriceindex(?395=X)O)                        79      110     x)9              Exports          Imports
T e n s of trade (?395=X)O)                      x)3      82       82                                              O2



BALANCE of PAYMENTS
                                        1982   1992    2001    2002
(US5 millions)                                                            Current account balance to GDP (%)

Exportsof goods and sewices              767   1,002   2,447   2,584     0
Imports of goods andsewices              823   1234    3,5P     3,621     1
Resource balance                         -56   -232    -1,064  -1,037   -2

Net income                              -202    -169     -141   -e9     -3

Net currenttransfers                       n      63    550      603    -4
                                                                        -5
Current account balance                 -228   -258     -325            -6

Financingitems (net)                     144    299     405           .-8
                                                                        -7

Changes innet reserves                    84     -41     -80      -60   -9
Memo:
Resewes includinggold (US5 millions)            299    1386     l,U2
Conversion rate (DEC, local/US$)          2.0    5.5    15.5     16.4

EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
                                        1982   1992    2001    2002
(US5 millions)                                                           Somposition of 2002 debt (US$ mill.
Total debt outstanding anddisbursed     1,844  3,893   5,050   5,395
  IBRD                                   2 7    489      P8       x)5
  IDA                                     79     m2      901    to14
Totaldebt sewice                         244    377     343      4x)
  IBRD                                    21     89        8      33
  IDA                                       1     2        x)      U

Compositionof net resourceflow
  Officialgrants                          34     162     8 7
  Official creditors                     163     221    209       69
  PrivatecredRors                           1    -16     -69     4 3
  Foreigndirect investment                14     48      8 5
  Portfolio equity                         0      0        0

World Bank program
  Commitments                             30     54      201      27       - iBRD
  Disbursements                           51     63       98       51     4                              E- Bilateral
                                                                         I IDA
                                                                           .       D Other mitilateral   F Private
  Principalrepayments                      7     47        9      28                   ~

                                                                         ;-IMF                          G Short-terr
                                                                                                           --




                                                           68

MAP SECTION

A

