                                         Document of
                                     The World Bank

                              FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

                                                                          Report No: 55735-HN




                                 RESTRUCTURING PAPER

                                            ON A

                         PROPOSED PROJECT RESTRUCTURING
                                       OF
                             NUESTRAS RAICES PROJECT
                                 (CREDIT 3892-HN)
                             APPROVED ON MAY 4, 2004

                                  IN THE AMOUNT OF
                                   SDR 10.1 MILLION
                            (US$15.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)


                                           TO THE

                                REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS



                                        July 24, 2010




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World
Bank authorization.
    Vice President:   Pamela Cox
 Country Director:    Laura Frigenti
   Sector Director:   Evangeline Javier
 Country Manager      Geoffrey Bergen
  Sector Manager:     Helena Ribe
Task Team Leader:     Cornelia Tesliuc
SUMMARY
The only proposed change is adding to the items to be financed out of the proceeds of the credit
under the category 3 of disbursement the "operating costs for the supervision of Sub-projects".
"Operating Costs" means the incremental expenses incurred on account of Sub-projects
implementation, including office equipment and supplies, vehicle operation and maintenance,
communication and insurance costs, office administration costs, utilities, travel, per diem and
supervision costs of locally contracted employees. In addition to the new definition, it is
important to highlight that the Amendment is retroactive as of the effectiveness date of the Credit
Agreement, and that the Disbursement Table is amended to include Operating Costs under
Category (3).

This change responds to government request to cover part of the operating costs associated with
the supervision of the Sub-projects given the fiscal constraints consequence of the economic
crisis that reduced the budgetary revenues.




PROJECT STATUS
This Project will close on July 31, 2010. Credit disbursements amounted to U$13.86 million, the
equivalent of 92.4 percent of the Credit. Provided that restructuring will be approved, about
additional one US million dollars from unspent Credit proceeds will likely be disbursed
corresponding to the Project eligible operating costs incurred by the FHIS for the supervision of
Sub-projects since the date of Credit effectiveness. Accordingly, once restructuring is approved,
the total Credit documented expenditure will increase to US$14.86 million (99 percent of the
total credit) by the closing date.

The total number of community-based sub-projects financed by the NR amounted to 1,665, more
than double the initial target, of which 1,335 have been completed and the remaining 330 are still
under execution, including the 7 horizontal ones implemented by some of the participating ethnic
Federations. About 86.5 percent of the projects were productive in nature and 13.5 percent
infrastructure. The most critical activity to be completed is to train community leaders as trainers
in the safe use of pesticides to comply with environmental safeguards. A contract with a
specialized environmental firm to build capacity in the communities to safely handle pesticides
has been signed and the training of about 330 members of participating communities with sub-
projects triggering this safeguard policy is underway, to be completed before the closing of the
Credit.
