Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 19184-CL
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF CHILE
PRIMARY EDUCATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 3410-CH)
May 17, 1999
Country Management Unit for Argentina, Chile and Uruguay
Human Development Sector Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in
the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be
disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Chilean Peso
Rate at Appraisal (Official): US$1 = Ch.$305 (Average)
US$1 = Ch.$339 (March 1991)
FISCAL YEAR OF THE BORROWER
January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Imeter (m) = 3.28 feet (ft)
Ikilometer (km)= 0.62 miles(ml)
lliter (l)=0.264 US gallon (gl)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CEANIM      Centro de Estudios de Atenci6n al Nino y a la Mujer (Center for Studies on
Maternal and Child Care)
CEDEP       Centro de Estudios de Desarrollo y Estimulaci6n Psicosocial (Center for Studies
Development and Psychosocial Stimulation)
CIDE        Centro de Investigaci6n y Desarrollo de la Educacion (Education Research and
Development Center)
CPU         Centro de Promoci6n Universitaria (Centre of University Promotion)
ICR         Implementation Completion Report
JUNAEB      Junta Nacional de Auxilio Escolary Becas (National School Assistance and
Scholarship Board)
JUNJI       Junta Nacional de Jardines Infantiles (National Kindergarten Board)
FUNACO    Fundaci6n Nacional de Ayuda a la Comunidad (National Foundation of
Community Support)
INTEGRA    Fundaci6n Nacionalpara el Desarrollo Integral del Menor (National Foundation
of Children hitegral Development)
LCSHD       Latin America and the Caribbean Social and Human Development Department
MECE        Proyecto de Mejoramiento de la Calidady Equidad de La Educaci6n (Education
Quality Improvement Project)
MINEDUC   Ministerio de Educaci6n (Ministry of Education)
PIIE        Programa Interdisciplinario de Investigaci6n en Educaci6n (Interdisciplinary
Program of Educational Research)
PME         Proyecto de Mejoramiento Educativo (Education Improvement Project)
PRODEPE   Proyecto de Descentralizacion Pedag6gica (Pedagogic Decentralization Project)
SIMCE       Sistema de Informaci6n sobre la Calidad de la Educaci6n (Achievement
Assessment System)
Vice President             Shahid Javed Burki
Country Director           Myrna Alexander
Sector Director           Xavier Coll
Task Manager               M. Rosa Puech



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Table of Contents
PREFACE  .....................................................................                                                                       i
EVALUATION  SUMMARY  .....................................................................                                                          ii
PART  I. PROJECT  IMPLEMENTATION  ASSESSMENT .....................................................................                                  1
1.   Introduction ....................................................................                                                  1
2     Project Objectives .....................................................................2
3     Implementation Experience .....................................................................2
4     Project Results .....................................................................4
5.   Project Sustainability ....................................................................                                      12
6. Bank Performance .................................                                                                                  12
7. Borrower Performance .................................                                                                              13
8. Assessment of Outcomes .................................                                                                            14
9. Key Lessons Learned .................................                                                                               14
PART II. STATISTICAL TABLES .................................                                                                                      17
Table 1:  Summary of Assessment .................................                                                                      18
Table 2:  Related Bank Loans/Credits .................................                                                                20
Table 3: Project Timetable .................................                                                                           21
Table 4:    Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual ...................................... 22
Table 5A: Efficiency, Quality and Equity Indicators .............................................................                       23
Table 5B: Rural Education Program: Comparative Results on Student Achievements ................. 25
Table 6A: Key Indicators for Project Monitoring; Preschool Education Monitoring ....................... 26
Table 6B: Primary Education Monitoring .............................................................                                  28
Table 6C: Institutional Strengthening .............................................................                                   30
Table 6D: Project Execution Monitoring Unit .............................................................                             32
Table 7:    Studies Included in Project .............................................................                                 33
Table 8A: Project Execution by Components .............................................................                               34
Table 8B: Project Execution by Categories .............................................................                               35
Table 8C: Project Financing .............................................................                                             36
Table 9:    Status of Legal Covenants .............................................................                                   37
Table 10:  Bank Resoiirces: Staff Inputs .............................................................                                40
Table I 1:  Bank Resources: Missions .............................................................                                    41
Annex I. Borrower's contribution to the ICR.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CHILE
PRIMARY EDUCATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 3410-CH)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Primary Education
Improvement Project in Chile, for which Loan 3410-CH in the amount of US$170 million
equivalent was approved on October 3, 1991 and made effective on March 18, 1992.
The ICR was prepared by M. Rosa Puech, Human Development Sector Management Unit
of the Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office, with assistance from Luis Pisani
(Consultant), reviewed by William Experton (Principal Education Specialist, Human
Development Sector Management Unit, LCSHD), and Ruth Izquierdo (Task Assistant, LCSHD).
The Borrower provided comments that are incorporated to the ICR.
Preparation of this ICR began during the Bank's completion mission on September 21-
22, 1998. It is based on material in the project file. The Borrower contributed to preparation of
the ICR by providing views during the preparation of this report and by preparing an evaluation
of the project implementation, attached as part of this report.
i



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CHILE
PRIMARY EDUCATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 3410-CH)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
1.   Introduction.
1.1.  This project was approved by the Board on October 3, 1991, signed on October 24, 1991,
and declared effective on March 18, 1992. At the time of appraisal, total project costs were
estimated at US$243 million equivalent, of which US$170 million was to be financed by the
IBRD loan, with the balance to be financed by the Government of Chile. In 1997, at the
Borrower's request, US$49 million, from the non-allocated disbursement category, was
cancelled, bringing total IBRD financing to US$120.7 million. The project required six years for
completion, as originally estimated. The final disbursement was effected in December 31, 1997,
and the formal implementation finalized in June 1998.
2.    Project Objectives and Achievement of Results.
2.1   The project achieved its key objective of assisting the Government in enhancing the
quality, equity and efficiency of primary education in selected schools in rural and urban areas. It
attained most of the targets set for the different components and, in many instances, it exceeded
the targets of the project components. It successfully expanded coverage and enhanced the
quality of pre-school education (improving primary school preparedness, reducing late entry,
repetition and drop out rates, targeting children living in poverty conditions). It initiated some
processes to develop the institutional, managerial and financial capacity of the Ministry of
Education (MINEDUC) and the decentralization of the management of the education system at
regional, provincial, municipal and school levels. However, on the whole, it did not change
profoundly the way the MINEDUC operated. The project produced, long before its completion,
a major impact on the quality of education at the classroom level and on Chilean education
policy, as reflected in the results of the Achievement Assessment System (SIMCE). The project
included very innovative elements, especially in pedagogy, that have been integrated into the
daily routine of the education system. These innovations and the methodology developed with
this project were applied by the MINEDUC to the Secondary Education Quality Improvement
Project (Loan 3883-CH) and laid the ground for the elements that constituted the education
reform announced in 1996.
2.2   Project Content: In order to achieve these objectives, the Project included the following
components: (i) improvement of quality, equity and efficiency of primary education (74 percent
of total project cost); (ii) expanding coverage and enhancing quality of preschool education,
targeted to the poorest children (16 percent of total project cost); (iii) development of
ii



institutional, managerial and financial capacity of the Ministry of Education, the Provinces and
the Municipalities (6.8 percent of total project cost); and (iv) assessment of cost effective
strategies to meet the secondary education needs of primary education graduates (1 percent of
total project cost).
3.    Project results. Over the course of implementation, achievements of the different
components of the project have been remarkable. Some illustrative project results include the
following:
3.1   Development of primary education in rural areas: From 1992-96, the program was
implemented in 100% of rural schools with one to three teachers, benefiting over 28.9% of rural
students. Almost all --85%-- teachers and supervisors were trained in currriculum content and
pedagogical methodologies and all children in rural schools received, at no cost, textbooks in
mathematics, languages, natural and social sciences and complementary learning materials. Rural
schools have been grouped in 510 "Microcenters", created as a space for teacher development
and exchange of learning experiences. As a result, the quality of education, in terms of learning
achievements has improved, as measured by the SIMCE results, narrowing the gap in learning
achievements with better performing schools: between 1992 and 1996, the improvements in
results were 19 percentage points in urban schools and 39 in the MECE-Rural schools' .
3.2   School-based guality improvement program (PME-Programa de Mejoramiento
Educativo): The PME provided small grants to school designed programs addressing specific
problems related to quality weakness at school level. It intended to foster teacher initiatives and
community participation. It was the first project financed by the Bank that combined bottom-up
and top-down principles. The methodology proved successful in stimulating the energy and
creativity of teachers and supervisors. It introduced a competitive process among the schools to
secure funds for their projects. By the end of the project, 4,160 PME grants were implemented
by 3,675 primary urban schools and 430 rural microcenters (which grouped 3,022 rural schools
with one to three teachers). In addition, 298 PME grants were implemented by special education
schools. This benefited 1,660,000 students, representing 73 percent of primary schools
enrollment. The innovations brought to the pedagogy had a measurable impact on the quality of
the learning process, improving the scores in 60 percent of the schools that had PME grants. The
PME was a key factor in changing the role of the 350 supervisors, as well as fostering team work
at the school level. This mechanism has been adopted by the Ministry of Education to allocate
resources in secondary schools.
3.3   Special education: Creating this program was in itself an outstanding success. It would
be for any country, but it is remarkable in a country of the level of economic development of
Chile. The program, covering 1.65% of basic education students, improved equity in the
education system, through positive discrimination, focusing on upgrading teachers' skills in
preventing and identifying learning disabilities and training them in education strategies to solve
these problems. The program addressed the inequities at school suffered by children with
' Source: Estudio de Evaluaci6n de la Linea de Educaci6n Rural del Programa MECE. Universidad Austral de Chile,
Universidad Austral de Playa Ancha. Agosto 1998.
iii



learning difficulties. It boosted quality, since it helped improve the academic results of this
group of children and equity as well.
3.4   School health care: The project helped to create a sustainable mechanism to screen the
health of all children in primary school. The target was substantially exceeded (from 920,000
children initially planned to 1,862,751 effectively screened). Choosing an incremental approach,
coverage extended along the life of the project to all children in municipal and partially
subsidized schools from first to seventh grade. By 1999, all children enrolled in these primary
education schools will be covered by the program. In addition, the training of teachers to carry
out the first screening process revealed itself as a very cost-efficient mechanism to achieve the
objective.
3.5   Computer network: The program "Enlaces" was conceived by a local university as a pilot
experience with the goal to create a telecommunication and computer network among 100
primary schools and affiliated institutions by 1997. By 1995, the initial target had been met, and
the MINEDUC decided to expand the network to 50 percent of the primary schools and 100
percent of the secondary schools, between 1996 and 2000. At the end of the project, 1,230
primary and 470 secondary schools were in the network, supported by 30 universities. A
majority of the schools in the pilot program were located in the country's poorest communities,
in areas where educational resources are scarce. Enlaces supplied educational software that
contributed to changing conventional attitudes about teaching and leaming approaches. It was
successful in creating a robust and stable bridge between primary schools and the universities,
that developed proposals for the pedagogical use of the technology and provided teacher training
and support. The experience was successful in creating a model for a communication rietwork
for secondary education. Chile is the only developing country that is implementing a school
network at such a scale.
3.6   Textbooks and educational inputs: The project focused on the improvement of the
pedagogy and the leaming process in the classroom in relation to curriculum development. Each
child received at least three textbooks. Additional learning materials were provided and libraries
("bibliotecas de aulas") were installed in the classrooms directly accessible to the students. The
project achieved 100% coverage of students in municipal and privately subsidized schools, in
terms of textbooks and classroom libraries. Successful procurement of textbooks and leaming
materials substantially lowered the cost, allowing the Ministry to buy learning items that were not
initially foreseen in the project.
3.7    Expanding coverage and enhancing the quality of pre-school education: The project
proved cost efficient in expanding coverage of preschool education (from 21 percent of children
from 0 to 6 years of age, to 29.6 percent in 1996), both in the urban and rural sectors. It was also
flexible, adapting to the characteristics of each environment. In the formal sector, it created the
institutional framework which fostered the expansion of capacity of semi-private institutions,
such as JUNJI and INTEGRA and the expansion of classrooms annexed to municipal schools. In
the rural areas, it expanded coverage (15.3 percent of children between ages 0 to 6 years, in
1996) and improved the quality of preschool education, in a very cost efficient manner, focusing
on training mothers. The program "Conozca a su Hijo" (Know your Child) has been in place
iv



since 1993, having a great impact on lower income groups. The programs have been transferred
to the municipalities, to ensure their sustainability. The evaluation of the program showed that it
has been more successful in improving the social and emotional development of the children in
the program, than in having a significant impact in their cognitive development.
3.8   Institutional development and capacity building in the Ministry of Education and the
Municipalities: The project concentrated in deepening the decentralization process in education,
providing equipment and information systems, and strengthening institutional capacity through
training of personnel at the central and decentralized levels of the Ministry of Education and in
the municipalities. The impact of the training activities at the regional and local levels of the
Ministry's structure was limited though, by their reduced scale and a significant turn-over of
personnel and functions. It integrated the team that worked on the project and the main issues of
a decentralized education system into the existing structure and organizational culture of the
MINEDUC. Yet, it fell short in fully achieving the changes in the Ministry of Education in terms
of management, organization, structure and processes that were successful in implementing the
project. During 1997, the last year of implementation, the project was entirely institutionalized
within the Ministry of Education. All the programs generated by the projects are being fully
financed in the national budget, with objectives that exceeded those the project foresaw for 1997.
3.9   Secondary Education: The project financed studies to generate background information
that allowed strategic policy decisions to be made for the transformation of secondary education.
In addition, a wide consultation process, a study tour, and seminars were organized to learn from
international experience. It laid the seeds for the changes to come in a full program of
transformation of secondary education and the comprehensive education reform which followed
in 1996.
4.    Project implementation. Implementation proceeded extremely well during the life of
the project. The dialogue between the Bank and the Borrower was excellent in all the project
stages, allowing a flexible and open approach during the life of the project. Through successful
implementation, the project achieved its main objectives and surpassed its targets, having and
impact on all aspects of the education process.
4.1   Bank performance: The Bank's performance was satisfactory. It maintained a close
relationship and dialogue with the Borrower during all phases of the project, providing financing
and technical support for an innovative operation. It brought substantial value added to the
different project stages, highly appreciated by the Borrower. Project design allowed flexibility
and changes were introduced during implementation to adapt to the needs of its innovative
approach and to the local and beneficiaries' characteristics. The Bank responded in a timely and
flexible manner to those changes. Standard procurement procedures proved not to be suitable to
the bottom-up approach of the PME and generated difficulties that, in some cases, delayed
project implementation.
4.2   Borrower performance: The Borrower's performance reflected the high degree of
commitment to the project and the skills of the team in charge of the preparation and
implementation of this operation. The Project Implementation Unit, representing only 1.9% of
v



project cost, performed an excellent job in the implementation of the project. It undertook a
leadership role beyond coordination and a key role in project execution. Remarkable efforts were
displayed to bring into the project execution the different institutions that worked in the context
of the project. Its work helped produce substantial changes in the culture of the Ministry of
Education and other implementing agencies. The continuity of the PIU team, through five
Ministers of Education was a key factor for the excellent implementation of the project.
Members of this team have participated in Bank missions to other countries in the region, sharing
their expertise in improving education systems.
5.    Project Sustainability and Outcomes.
5.1   One of the major achievements of the project is the complete institutionalization of its
components within the Ministry of Education, in 1997, during the last year of project
implementation. The national budget started to finance activities of the program before project
closing, supporting the continuation of the initiatives and instruments generated by the project.
At present, all the programs developed by the project are being fully financed in the annual
budget. The Government has fulfilled its commitment to increase the actual spending in the
education sector, necessary to sustain the quality improvements and targeted programs the project
supports. During the last few years, there has been an increase of the education share of public
spending (which was 13.1 percent of total public expenditures in 1990 to 15.5 percent in 1997).
In part, this reflects that the project was not an isolated effort to improve basic education but
instead a program that supported a national policy to improve educational quality and equity. The
Government's continued commitment to this policy assures the sustainability of the
achievements of the project.
5.2   The objectives for the project were relevant, realistic and attainable. The project helped
the Government progress in the transformation of the education sector and helped lay the
groundwork for the comprehensive education reform program launched in 1996. In terms of
quality, MECE BASICA has brought remarkable improvements to the pedagogy of primary
education; it has created a profound change in the way schools determine how to improve the
quality of teaching; it has provided relevant textbooks, teaching and learning materials, improved
infrastructure and brought technology in support of pedagogy to the class. In terms of equity, it
has built on previous experiences (such as the Program P-900) to target most at-risk schools and
those with the worst performance, to implement activities of positive discrimination to provide
equal access to quality education. It has developed a rural program for basic education,
integrated today in the MINEDUC that has actually produced remarkable results in terms of
student achievements, teachers quality and relevance of the local culture to the curriculum.
6.    Summary of Findings and Key Lessons Learned.
6.1   The project was a valuable instrument in supporting the government's policy in the
education sector. The Government's strong commitment enabled the development of the
programs under the MECE-BASICA, and it supported these efforts by increasing national
resources to the social sectors, particularly to education, during implementation. The project
brought relevant changes to the pedagogy at the classroom level, fostered decentralization and
vi



empowered schools. It significantly improved the quality of basic education and it improved
equity through the targeting to the more at-risk schools. The following aspects are highlighted as
the lessons learned:
6.2   Long term vision and permanence of objectives and teams: The establishment of
democracy in Chile created a favorable environment to undertake the substantial educational
changes supported by the project. At the center of the Government's policies was fostering the
development of the country's human resources and introducing quality and equity in the
education system, as pillars of the strategy to promote economic development. During the
project, commitment at the highest level of government (two Presidents, two Ministers of
Finance and five Ministers of Education) to this core set of policies provided continuity to the
change process. The project was designed and implemented by the same high quality team,
providing consistency and stability. In addition, there was a direct link and fluid communication
between the political and technical levels. This project laid the base for the transformation of
secondary education in 1995 and broader education reforms adopted in 1996.
6.3   Focusing on the learning process in the classroom and teacher participation: Chile's
experience on improving basic education put the emphasis on improving the pedagogy and the
learning process at the classroom level. It chose a bottom-up approach to foster teacher and
community participation. It was a risky approach considering the traditional reticence of teachers
and supervisors to assume direct responsibility in quality improvement actions. This difficulty
was overcome by sequencing the implementation, undertaking a strong investment in training,
manuals, guidelines, some exchange of experience, and renewing the role of supervision. The
PME, one of the most effective programs under the MECE, proved to be successful and key to
initiating the transformation process of primary education. PME grants had a remarkable impact
on the management and the organizational culture of the school. They initiated a process which
has brought pedagogical autonomy at the schools, enhanced the relation between the school and
the community and brought an interdisciplinary vision to the pedagogy. They contributed to a
transformation of the teachers' role from a traditional frontal approach to one of "learning
facilitators", influencing the personal development and creativity of students.
6.4   Diversity of approaches and its adaptation to the context: The design and methodology of
implementation of the project was specifically adapted to the diversity of the Chilean education
system, which has private and public providers, formal and informal systems, rural and urban
schooling, and wide socio-economic differences among student populations. The rural
education and the preschool programs are an example of this. The project counted on a strong
base to design these programs, with the experience of P900, a program targeted to deprived
schools and the background technical work during project preparation, that together provided a
good mapping for an effective and efficient targeting. The program of rural education focused
on the specific characteristics of rural schools to improve the learning achievement of students.
It concentrated on pedagogy, provided substantial resources to rural schools, and targeted those at
higher risk. A new space for teachers' professional encounter and development, the
"microcenters," broke the isolation of rural teachers and created a particularly effective tool of in-
service training and pedagogical change. This had a great impact on the quality of the education
in the rural sector, reducing the leaming achievement gap with schools showing better results.
vii



On the other hand, the pre-school education program successfully achieved an increase in
coverage of preschool education using different approaches for rural and urban areas. It
supported the expansion of semi-private institutions in the urban areas, and in rural areas, it
supported informal programs that concentrated on the mothers to reach a poorer segment of
population that other programs did not capture. The program had an effective impact on
mother's behaviors, that was extremely beneficial for the dev.iopment and learning capabilities
of the children.
6.5   Prioritization and sequencing of education changes: The project was characterized by the
sequencing of changes and by using permanent monitoring and evaluation of project
implementation, to retrofit the project with the lessons leamed and to expand the pilot
experiences at the national level. For instance, the P900 experience in the most deprived schools,
mostly in rural areas, was the base of expansion to the rest of the system. The school network
"Enlaces" started with 100 schools and one university, and later was expanded to 50 percent of
all primary schools with the support of fifteen universities. The pedagogic materials and
methodology used in preschool was first tested in a reduced number of schools and progressively
adopted by the rest of the system.
viii



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CHILE
PRIMARY EDUCATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 3410-CH)
PART I. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1.   Introduction.
1.1   During the 1970s and 80s, Chile implemented a significant reform of the social sectors.
The reform redefined the role of the state, decentralized major social development
responsibilities to the municipalities, promoted privatization, targeted public social expenditures
to low income groups, and channeled resources to municipal and private subsidized schools.
1.2  In the education sector, the first wave of liberal reforms, introduced in the early 1980s,
consisted of the decentralizing the school system to the municipal level, adopting attendance-
based subsidies and transferring some vocational schools to private corporations. This
contributed to a major shift of enrollment from the public to the private-subsidized school,
improved retention, and improved links to the labor market. These reforms brought a 30 percent
reduction of spending on education and a 10 percent reduction of the teaching corps. However,
these reforms did not translate into higher levels of quality, equity and efficiency, especially
among the low income rural and urban poor.
1.3  In 1990, the Government chose to maintain the decentralized organization of the sector.
It designed the "Program to Improve the Quality and Equity of Education" (Programa de
Mejoramiento de la Calidady Equidad de la Educacion, MECE) as an integral part of the
Government's global strategy oriented towards growth and development of the country. MECE,
a medium-term program to last six years, was initiated in 1992 and addressed the most urgent
educational challenges, reconciling the previous liberal policies with ideals of solidarity and a
more proactive role of the state. It centered on curricular and pedagogical renovation, completely
focused on the classroom, improving the physical condition of schools, and on opening them to
external experiences and new ideas. MECE addressed basic infrastructure needs, provided
schools with textbooks and instructional materials and libraries. It planted the seeds for change,
introducing other innovative elements (a school-based computer network, school-based
improvement plans, development of preschool programs) to prepare the school system for the
changes to come. This program, supported by technical assistance from the World Bank,
bolstered initial Government efforts and set the stage for the follow-on program to improve the
quality of secondary education and the education reform announced in 1996.
1.4   The first half of the 1 990s prepared the system and enhanced its readiness for substantive
and sustained change in education. In 1996, the President of Chile announced a comprehensive
1



educational reform, with the objective of modernizing the educational system and preparing it for
the challenges of the new century. The reform is based on several basic programs: (i) a new
curriculum; (ii) a pedagogical renovation oriented to promote teacher professionalism; (iii) the
introduction of a full day of school; and (iv) the Montegrande Project, a pilot project to be
implemented in selected secondary schools to promote excellence in schools.
2.    Project Objectives.
2.1   The project's key objective was to assist the Government in enhancing the quality, equity
and efficiency of primary education in selected schools in rural and urban areas. To this end, it
proposed to: (i) expand coverage and enhance the quality of pre-school education to improve
primary school preparedness and reduce late entry, repetition and drop-out rates, especially
targeted to 5-year-old children living in poverty conditions; (ii) strengthen the institutional
capacity of the Ministry of Education (MINEDUC), central, regional and local offices, as well as
that of the education departments of the municipalities, and the managerial skills of municipal
and private-subsidized preschool and primary schools administrators; and (iii) assess alternative
cost-effective approaches to meet the secondary education needs of primary graduates.
2.2   Project Content: In order to achieve these objectives, the project included the following
components: (i) improvement of quality, equity, and efficiency of primary education (74% of
total project cost); (ii) expanding coverage and enhancing quality of preschool education,
targeted to the poorest children (16% of total project cost); (iii) development of institutional,
managerial and financial capacity of the Ministry of Education, the provinces and the
municipalities (6.8% of total project cost); and (iv) assessment of cost effective strategies to meet
the secondary education needs of primary education graduates (1% of total project cost).
2.3   The improvement of quality, equity and efficiency of primary education included the
following components: (i) implementation of 5,000 locally based quality improvement projects
of a pedagogical decentralized program (Programa de Descentralizacion Pedag6gica-
PRODEPE, which later became known as the PME component); (ii) strengthening of the
educational testing system; (iii) providing in-service teacher training for teachers, principals and
supervisors; (iv) distribution of primary textbooks, reading and teaching materials for primary
schools; (v) hiring new teachers to complete eight grades in incomplete rural schools; (vi)
constructing new classrooms in rural areas; (vii) upgrading and refurbishing classrooms, mostly
in rural schools; (viii) establishing an experimental education communication computer network
in primary schools; (ix) providing health screening and referral to the primary care system for
first graders every year; and (x) establishing monetary incentives for in-service teacher training
and teaching in deprived, mostly rural schools in the framework of a new teacher statute.
3.    Implementation Experience.
3.1    Overall, project implementation proceeded extremely well. Implementation of the
different components proceeded on or ahead of schedule during the life of the project although
project start up was slow in the first year. Both the Bank and the Ministry of Education
underestimated several factors that delayed project take-off by a few months, such as: (i) the
2



considerable efforts and time needed to form technical teams; (ii) the development of the
regulatory and administrative framework and procedures needed for project implementation; (iii)
the wider responsibilities of the project implementing unit (PIU), which was initially thought of
as a coordination unit, but which executed a significant part of the program, assuming
responsibility for the design, production of project instruments and implementation of actions.;
(iv) the need to become familiar with Bank procedures, crucial for certain aspects of the project.
Once these factors were dealt with, the project caught up to speed and implementation proceeded
smoothly.
3.2   The PIU team was largely responsible for the timely and efficient implementation of the
project, that was decentralized at regional level. It was established as a separate unit within the
Ministry of Education, in charge of project implementation, and reported directly to the Minister.
It skillfully carried out coordination with a multiplicity of institutions and beneficiaries that
participated in and benefited from the project and managed the political aspects related to project
implementation. The PIU, physically and operationally within the Ministry itself, represented a
new management and organizational culture within the MINEDUC, that contrasted with the
traditional ways in which the Ministry operated. In 1996, the programs run by MECE started to
be mainstreamed into the Ministry of Education, achieving full institutionalization of the project
during 1997.
3.3   Flexibility in project design was a key factor to successful project implementation. The
innovative character of the project kept the Bank and Chilean teams open to changes in design
during the life of the project. This helped in coping with the high complexity and number of
programs, diversity of beneficiaries and participants, multiple institutions involved in project
execution. It was an advantage for a program that supported further decentralization and
encouraged local initiatives. It allowed constant adaptation to the changing needs and different
realities of project execution, always bearing in mind project objectives.
3.4   Project implementation was favored by the country's excellent progress on the economic
front. Since the beginning of the decade, Chile has experienced an extraordinarily strong
economic performance, thanks to a combination of sound macro economic and trade policies,
deep structural reforms, which allowed important increases in social spending. For the project,
this was beneficial since it allowed national resources to finance the programs designed by the
project, favoring its sustainability. This also affected the level of disbursements that were
somewhat slow, due to the country's healthy fiscal situation. In 1997, $49 millions of the non-
allocated part of the loan were cancelled, at the Borrower's request, due to lower cost of certain
project components and the decision not to carry out some actions with Bank financing.
3.5   The Bank and the Borrower worked very closely during project implementation. The
Borrower valued the technical assistance and advisory role of the Bank. During project
implementation, the Bank and the Borrower worked closely to prepare the Secondary Education
Quality Improvement Project (Loan 3883-CH). At the request of the Goverrnent, in late 1996, a
Bank staff was seconded to the Ministry of Education for eighteen months to assist with the
implementation of the reform program and to disseminate the lessons leamed with the two
MECE projects, that were the building blocks for the reform.
3



4.    Project Results.
4.1   The project fulfilled its main objective of improving the quality and equity of the basic
education in the country. It achieved most of the targets set for the different components and, in
many instances, it exceeded the proposed targets of the project sub-components. The project
produced, long before its completion, a major impact on the quality of education at the classroom
level and on Chile's education policy. The project included very innovative elements, particularly
in pedagogy, that have been mainstreamed into the education system. It successfully supported
the reform efforts of the Government in education. Some of the main project achievements are
summarized below.
4.2   Development of primary education in rural areas: For equity reasons, multigrade rural
schools with one, two or three teachers only (40% of total basic schools and 4.8% of enrollment)
were targeted, since they were the most at-risk schools, with a significant gap with regular
primary schools. The objective of this sub-component was to improve the relevance and quality
of the learning process in rural schools, to improve the pedagogical initiative and the curriculum,
to empower teachers, and to foster innovation in the teaching and learning process.
4.3   From 1992 to 1996, the program was applied in 100 percent of the rural schools with
one-three teachers (3,338), benefiting over 95,000 students (28.9% of total enrollment of rural
schools). During the program, almost all of the teachers and supervisors (5,121 teachers and 111
supervisors) were trained in " talleres provinciales" in currriculum content and pedagogical
methodologies. Thanks to the project, at present all children in rural schools receive text books
in math, languages, natural and social sciences, and complementary learning materials (during
the life of the project almost 6 million textbooks and 11,200 copies for teachers and students
were created and distributed). A new manual for curriculum development for rural schools was
produced and distributed to teachers, supervisors, and technical experts in the MINEDUC. Rural
schools with one-three teachers were grouped in 510 Microcenters, created as a space for teacher
development and exchange of learning experiences. These have been very successful in breaking
teachers' isolation and allowing professional exchange. Other elements of the program, such as
the "school-based quality improvement projects" have helped strenghten the particular identity of
the rural program. The role of supervisors changed to a more responsible and pedagogically
active one. The above mentioned activities reinforced teacher's morale and their confidence in
the work they do. As a result, learning achievements have improved remarkably (from 1992 to
1996 results in MECE-Rural schools have improved by 39 percentage points and in urban
schools by 19), narrowing the gap with better performing schools, as measured by the results of
the Achievement Assessment System (SIMCE)2.
4.4   School-based Quality Improvement Project (PME)-Pedagogical Decentralization Program
(PRODEPE): The main objective of this component was to upgrade the teaching capacity of
teachers in order to improve the quality of education. It envisaged encouraging local capacity to
generate projects to improve the quality of education. To achieve this goal, three main actions
were planned: (i) generation of PME initiatives in publicly financed schools; (ii) creation of a
2 Source: "Estudio de Evaluaci6n de la Linea de Educaci6n Rural del Programa MECE". Universidad Austral de
Chile, Universidad de Playa Ancha de Ciencias de la Educaci6n. Agosto 1998.
4



fund to finance those PME initiative with grants; (iii) capacity building for all of those
participating in the creation and supervision of the grants. Along its implementation, the
component adapted its design to incorporate special education schools and rural microcenters.
4.5   The results have been remarkable and the targets met: (i) almost 100 percent of the basic
urban and rural schools have developed PMEs and carried them out (3,700 in basic education
schools, 298 in special education schools and 460 in rural micro-centers); (ii) 350 supervisors
have played a key role in training teachers in the preparation and formulation of projects; and (iii)
1,660,248 students have benefited from these projects (83% of enrollment).
4.6   The PME grants have helped place the quality of teaching and learning at the center of the
pedagogical activity of the school. They have initiated the transformation of the functioning and
management of the schools and fostered initiatives at school level and participation. They have
been institutionalized as an activity within the school, for which the school proposed, prepared,
and competed for funds to improve education, adapting it to its needs and characteristics. Its
impact on the quality of education was soon felt. The PME has brought improvement in the
supervision function, focusing it on the pedagogical aspects, combining them with the
administrative ones. It has improved the relationship between the actors within the school,
reinforcing the role of teachers. It has fostered parents' and community members' participation
in the work of the school. It has favored linkages between schools and other institutions such as
universities, collaborating or supporting the schools. In terms of impact: (i) 60 percent of the
schools that received a PME grant saw their academic results improved; (ii) repetition rates
declined in schools with PMEs; and (iii) the program was relatively cost-effective, marginally
more effective in private subsidized schools than in municipal ones.
4.7   School Health Care: This component had as main objective to improve the health
situation of children to achieve better results in school and equal opportunities. It was extremely
successful in its implementation, doubling the targets set in the project. In terms of coverage, the
program has screened all children in municipal and partially subsidized schools from first to
seventh grade (from 920,000 children initially planed to 1,862,751 effectively screened). The
program opted for incremental coverage, departing from the first year of basic school. By 1999,
all the children enrolled in these primary education schools will be covered by the program.
Almost a hundred percent of the subsidized private schools have been covered by the program
and 94 percent of children have been treated by municipal health centers. In service teacher
training has been given to 11,368 teachers, to 3,868 community coordinators, and to 3,627 actors
of primary health care (100% of the target). In terms of quality, achievements have been
outstanding with the elaboration of technical standards; production of feed-back reaching the
main actors involved in the program, through a bulletin distributed to schools and centers for
primary health care; monitoring of the program through questionnaires to the teachers, parents,
beneficiaries, community coordinators, and care centers; and introduction of "management
commitments" ("compromisos de gesti6n") that have helped in the last two years to improve
results. The program became more active on prevention, promotion activities and expansion to
other programs, not included in the original design, such as mental health, attention to preschool
children, and the promotion of a "healthy school"(escuela saludable).
5



4.8   The project has helped create a sustainable mechanism to screen all children in primary
schools. It trained teachers to do the first screening of students, before sending children with
detected health problems to primary health care centers. It became a very cost-efficient
mechanism to achieve the objective set in the project. Teacher commitment has been excellent,
and the program has helped reinforce their self-esteem and motivation. Parental involvement has
been also key, but there is still improvements that can be made on that front. The program has
evolved from a centralized to a decentralized one, in coordination with the general trend of the
national administration, giving as much of decision-making as possible to the communities and
schools when determining their needs to shape the program. The regional coordinators have
evolved to play a role of technical advice, relying substantially in the community coordinators.
The program has been satisfactory in integrating professionals into the JUNAEB3, merging two
type of working cultures. The progress has been slow but constant. Another notable
achievement has been the interdisciplinary work between the areas of health and education in the
field of school health.
4.9   Computer Network - Programa Enlaces: The initial objective of this component was to
create an experimental and open computer network to promote the participation of teachers and
students in the use of infornation technology in four primary education subject areas. As a pilot,
it intended to integrate 100 basic schools and ten institutions related to the education sector and
to create an education computer center in an university that could provide support to the schools.
The network would materialize through computers, software to support curriculum and teachers.
To achieve this objective, the project provided training and technical assistance to the teachers
and helped them integrate the technology as a tool to support pedagogical developments in the
classroom, administrative and social developments.
4.10 By 1995, the initial target had been met and the MINEDUC decided to expand the
network to 50 percent of the basic schools (about 85% of enrollment) and 100 percent of
secondary education between 1996 and 2000. In 1998, it was expanded to cover 2,242 primary
schools and 894 secondary schools. More than 50,000 teachers have received substantial training
for a period of two years in all the schools participating in the program. Teacher training has been
one of the strengths of the program. It was completely hands-on, given in schools and in teams,
and concentrated in the effective use of computers and communications to enrich their work.
Each school had at least one teacher-coordinator, responsible for the technology and for
establishing contacts to the network. Teacher training has been provided by a university
network, composed by thirty universities countrywide. This network has also provided technical
assistance to schools for two years, has developed training and dissemination materials and
supported the Ministry of Education in designing and developing strategies in the use of
computer technologies to support education reform. The program provided the schools with a
good collection of software. "La Plaza" is an example of this attractive, simple and easy-to-use
software, 100 percent Chilean in terms of cultural content, that can be easily adapted to all Latin
American countries. Substantial work has been done to disseminate the program, such as the
development of several tools to support teachers, creation of a magazine, a web site that includes
3 JUNAEB: The National School Assistance and Schoolarship Board ("Junta Nacional de Auxilio Escolar y
Becas"), an autonomous public institution, traditionally carried out programs in support of school children,
implemented the school-health program of MECE.
6



information on the network and documents on the reform; a center of pedagogical resources on
the internet to support teachers through educational software; and documents to provide
incentives and mechanisms to the private sector to support the network with donations of
hardware.
4.11  In general, teachers and students enthusiastically engaged in the use of the computers.
The program brought significant positive externalities. Teachers felt their situation had
improved: it improved their social behavior, helped them integrate with their students and helped
improve their relationship with school management. In the case of students, it improved the
creativity, reading, understanding, and learning achievements. The use of the network allowed
schools to connect with each other, to collaborate in projects developed by several schools in the
country and abroad. It has also improved the relation between the school and the community,
through parent's involvement in the program and provision of services to the community.
Recently, the network has integrated the regional offices of the Ministry of Education.
4.12 This program showed the benefits of developing a pilot before starting a complex
program. It was very effective, quickly gained support and was adopted by the MINEDUC as a
general program and expanded to secondary education. Enlaces benefited from a sound strategic
framework for project implementation. It fostered local initiative and schools self-reliance. It
had an impact on equity, since the pilot focused on schools in the poorest communities of the
country. The program rightly focused on teachers, on building its capacity and giving them
support, which was key in having an impact in the education process. It brought pedagogical
modernization to the schools, improving teaching practices, knowledge transmission, and
stimulating students' skill development. It created a bridge between the primary schools and the
universities that have played a key role in the future development and sustainability of the
program.
4.13  Nevertheless, the lack of specific time for the teachers to participate in the program,
sometimes proved to be a problem, and lessened the desired impact in some schools. One major
challenge is the introduction of technology in the school system and how to make teachers use it
as a normal resource in their current teaching practices. This requires long term support for
teachers, very closely linked to their daily work, especially in a context of curriculum and
education reform. Additionally, the cost of maintenance and equipment replacement appear as a
key factor for the sustainability in the future.
4.14 Textbooks and other educational inputs: The main objective of this component was to
improve the quality of education and learning process of children in municipal and private
subsidized schools through the provision of books and learning materials, creation of classroom
libraries, teachers' manuals and teachers training on new pedagogical inputs. All the targets
contained in the initial project were met or exceeded. The project achieved 100 percent coverage
of children in municipal and privately subsidized schools, in terms of textbooks and classroom
libraries, which were provided to schools at no cost. More than 30,000,000 textbooks (144% of
target) were provided for urban schools, and more that 2,000,000 (98% of target) for rural areas.
More than 2,000,000 of teaching materials (293% of target) were distributed as well. Since
1997, teachers can select the books to be used in each school, so there is no obligation to use the
7



same text in all schools A successful procurement policy substantially lowered costs, allowing
acquisition and distribution of more materials than was initially included in the project, based on
the successful P-900 pilot program. Supervisors were trained in the use of these materials in
order for them to be able to train the teachers of the first cycle.
4.15  The project put weight in providing learning materials directly to the schools to improve
the pedagogy and the relevance of what was being taught. Implementation showed the
importance of coordinating all the levels that participate in this area, in order to achieve greater
relevance of these materials to meet the demands and adjust to the diversity of the schools, to
provide the right guidance on contents and pedagogical aspects to the publishers, with enough
anticipation. Training supervisors and teachers in the use of these materials, especially the first
time they are used, is key. The sustainability of this component is assured. Since 1995 these
learming materials and library resources are financed under the national budget.
4.16  A shortfall has been the lack of an update of the textbooks to match the changes in
curriculum content, as foreseen in the project, since the common elements of the curriculum were
approved only in 1996. Another unfulfilled aspect was the teacher training on the use of the texts
that was initially thought to be provided by the CPEIP. The agreement with the CPEIP was
never reached, forcing the Ministry to rethink the strategy for teacher training in this area. This
was a major change in project design and brought a more economic and efficient way to train
teachers. Teachers were trained in the use of textbooks and classroom libraries through the TV
channel TELEDUC, belonging to the University Pontificia Cat6lica de Chile.
4.17  Special Education: The main objective was to improve the learning achievements of
children with learning difficulties. To achieve this objective, two strategies were set: (i) to
upgrade the skill of those teachers working directly with children with learning disabilities; and
(ii) to upgrade the skill of those school directors, teachers of basic education and teachers in
charge of pedagogical units.
4.18  The creation of this program is a notable achievement in itself and implementation was
very successful, almost all targets having been reached or exceeded. The program helped address
the inequities at school suffered by children with learning difficulties (1.65% of total basic
education students). It boosted quality, since it helped improve the academic results of this group
and equity as well. It contributed to changing the perspective on special education, from a
medical point of view to a pedagogical one. It showed the key role of training teachers in
specific areas of disabilities, of preparing and providing adequate and high quality pedagogic
materials and of family participation in the activities developed by schools to address this
learning deficiencies. This was the only activity of the component for teacher training upgrading
by CPEIP that was actually implemented. This program has been institutionalized in the
Ministry in the Division of Basic Education; however there is a need to reinforce its
sustainability.
4.19 Infrastructure. Remodeling Primarv Schools: The main objectives of the component were
to improve the infrastructure of schools, through building rehabilitation; construction of new
classrooms and provision of furniture for rural schools with incomplete cycles; construction of
8



bathrooms and activity rooms for preschool; improving the image of schools and relations with
the community through the provision of symbols and development of certain activities. Physical
targets were met:
2,232 schools were improved (around 27% of schools);
*.    190 classrooms (only 38% of the target) were built in rural schools with school cycle
incomplete. This target was revised because it was overestimated by the Bank and the
Borrower. There was a need to reduce it because of the lack of demand;
*.    102 classes were built, to improve the coverage in preschool;
4+    8,737 flags, 3,719 bells and 6,789 emblems were provided to improve the image of
school buildings and strengthen links to the community.
*:    1,435 projects of up-grading of school facades (defined by each school and of an average
cost of US$ 3,000 each) were implemented.
4.20  Improvements in physical infrastructure and provision of educational equipment
responded to the requirements of each school. Thanks to the joint work of the MINEDUC and
other institutions involved, physical investments focused on improving the quality of education.
Infrastructure improvements benefited from a multi-professional perspective, focusing on the
needs of different schools, on their individual characteristics and adapting to the teaching
process. There was good cooperation among Ministries, that allowed the successful
participation of the MINEDUC in the investment process. The program is sustainable thanks to
the creation of an infrastructure fund for education, in 1994, whose resources have increased 930
percent since then.
4.21  Preschool Education: The project aimed at increasing coverage and improving the quality
of the education system for preschool, especially for the poorest children. Coverage increased
(from 21% of children in ages 0 to 6 years in 1990 to 29.8% in 1996), both in the urban (32.6%
in 1996) and rural sectors (15.3% in 1996). In the urban areas, it fostered the expansion of
capacity in municipal schools and of semiprivate institutions. In all, 1 10 classrooms were built,
annexed to municipal schools, (reaching 2,200 new students), JUNJI4 increased its capacity by
4,000 new openings and INTEGRA5 expanded coverage by 9,000 children. In the rural areas, it
expanded coverage focusing on mothers and their training, through informal programs such as
"Conozca a su Hijo" (Know your Child) and the "Programas de Mejoramiento de la Infancia"(
Projects for Childhood Improvement, PMI). The program "Conozca a su Hijo" has been in place
since 1993, covering 13,793 children (between the ages of 0-6 years). This proved to be very
cost-efficient and had a great impact on low-income groups.
4.22 Regarding quality improvement, several actions were successfully undertaken: (i)
pedagogical training for professional and technical personnel from JUNJI, INTEGRA and
MINEDUC. Training was redesigned to create a distance training with the Universidad Cat6lica
4JIJNJI: National Kindergarten Board ("Junta Nacional de Jardines Infantiles") is a decentralized institution,
financed through the annual budget. It provides free integral care to poor children between the ages 0 to 5.
5 INTEGRA: "Fundaci6n Nacional para el Desarrollo Integral del Menor" , a private institution created from
FUNACO ( "Fundacion Nacional de Ayuda a la Comunidad "), provides educational services to preschool
children.
9



de Chile (through its TV channel TELEDUC), that benefited 175,200 children; (ii) pedagogical
training for professional and non-professionals through " Talleres de Integracidn Local" that
initially produced 120 projects for childhood improvement (Proyectos de Mejoramiento de la
Infancia, PMI), developed at local level, for poor children. During 1995 and 1996, 180 new
workshops were conducted, covering 17,000 children, and with the participation of 12,000 adults
(educators and community actors); (iii) hiring of 54 supervisors; (iv) supply by MINEDUC of
pedagogical materials to JUNJI, INTEGRA and subsidized schools. In 1993 the MINEDUC
transferred resources to JUNJI and INTEGRA for pedagogical materials to cover 100 percent of
their centers; (iv) supply of classroom libraries to 90 percent of the transition levels of subsidized
schools; and (v) a communications educational campaign addressed to parents that was very
successful, with strong impact on the lowest income groups.
4.23  The evaluation of the programs with larger coverage (municipal schools, private
subsidized schools, INTEGRA and JUNJI) shows they had a positive impact on leaming and
socio-emotional development in poor children that participated in preschool programs. The
programs have a greater impact on rural children and on children with cognitive and emotional
deficiency at the beginning of the program. They were more effective in maintaining and
improving the emotional development than cognitive development of participating children.
Among the informal programs financed by the MINEDUC, "Conozca a su Hijo" improved the
learning and socio-emotional development of rural children. It was as effective as other
preschool programs. It changed mothers' behavior, benefiting the development and learning
capabilities of the children. A higher percentage of mothers of the program read books, have
access to books, answer adequately to questions on sexual education, and have higher
expectations regarding their children's future education. Nevertheless, it still needs improvement
to reach the levels of urban preschool programs and have a better impact on equity. The
"Programas de Mejoramiento de la Infancia" (PMI) were effective in reaching a poorer segment
of the population. They backed community strategies of childhood development and were highly
valued by communities and families.
4.24 Institutional development and capacity building in the Ministry of Education and the
Municipalities: The main objective was gradually to change the managerial and organizational
culture in the central and decentralized parts of the Ministry of Education and in the
municipalities, in relation to the achievements of the objectives of quality and equity in
education. To achieve this, three areas of action were defined: (i) strengthen the planning,
programming, evaluation and management skills of the regional and local levels of the
MINEDUC; (ii) improve the information systems and equipment; and (iii) build capacity in the
personnel of MINEDUC and the municipalities.
4.25  This program did not fully achieve its objectives. It met the physical targets but did not
succeed in incorporating the changes and innovations in management and procedures. Work with
the regional and local offices of the MINEDUC was more fruitful, providing advice and training
on management tools, use of technology, planning and budgeting.
4.26  Regarding the physical targets set in the project, they were achieved 100 percent or close
in terms of the equipment and information systems for the MINEDUC and the regional and local
10



departments of the Ministry. A successful procurement process allowed acquisition of
equipment at a significant lower price than projected. The project laid the ground for the creation
of a national information network that linked the regional offices of the Ministry of Education. It
was successful in creating offices of information with a new orientation toward "contents and
options" in education and the provision of a basis for accountability processes with the general
public on the programs and results of educational policies.
4.27 Secondary Education: The main objective of this component was to generate, in a two
year period, a proposal to renew secondary education in Chile, based on quality and equity
considerations. To achieve those objectives, three complementary actions were included to: (i)
produce relevant background information on the existing secondary education system in 1990;
(ii) put quality and equity of secondary education at the center of the education agenda and
increase the commitment of different actors and community groups with youth education; and
(iii) elaborate a proposal to renew secondary education, incorporating national and international
experience, the results of the studies and a national dialogue on the relevant issues.
4.28  The objectives and target set for the project were fully met. Twelve studies on the areas
of curriculum and structure, working practices and socialization, quality measurement,
management and financing and teaching training were carried out. A bulletin with information on
the program was published and broadly disseminated (120,000 units) in the country. Forty
provincial education departments were visited to carry out a dialogue that involved supervisors,
teachers, school directors, and social organizations. Around 5,000 groups for dialogue were
formed all over the country, and based on their activities a final report was produced in
September 1993. There were meetings with the supervisors of secondary education and regional
departments of the MINEDUC. A "National Forum" was organized to have direct contact and
involve communication media and specific meetings with different interest groups on the theme,
guided with materials. Five groups of consultants worked in 1993 to generate a proposal,
analyzed and discussed by the Advisory Council to the Minister of Education, created by several
representatives from MINEDUC, school directors, education experts, the project coordination,
for over six months. Two international seminars were organized as well as a study tour to three
Asian countries (Malaysia, Korea and Singapore). Finally, a pilot project was implemented
during 1994 in 122 secondary schools which led to the follow up project, MECE MEDIA, being
implemented since 1995 by the Chilean government, with support of the Bank (Loan 3883-CH).
4.29  The approach adopted by the Borrower had a great impact. Choosing to carryout a
thorough technical analysis before shaping the reforms for secondary education was key in
indentifying the main problems. It allowed generation of the right diagnosis of these problems
and an accurate design of remedies. The process of dialogue was positive in building consensus
and gathering as well as disseminating information. It engaged a wider spectrum of actors than
just the educators. The final design for the changes at the secondary level benefited greatly from
the implementation and results lessons of the MECE-BASICA project.
11



5.    Project Sustainability.
5.1   One of the major achievements of the project is the entire institutionalization of its
components within the Ministry of Education in 1997, during the last year of project
implementation. The project was started by a unit, MECE, that ran parallel to the daily operation
of the Ministry of Education. As project implementation progressed, several of the project's
components were integrated into the organization of the Ministry of Education. Such was the
case of Special Education, the School Quality Improvement Projects, Preschool, and so on. The
project implementation team has been incorporated as personnel of the Ministry of Education
itself, contributing to the acceptance and continuation of the different programs, supported by the
project. In some instances, such as the case of the computer program "ENLACES", the project
supported an initial pilot that was quickly assumed by the MINEDUC and transformed into a
national program extending to the whole education system.
5.2  In support of the continuation of the initiatives generated by the project is that the
national budget started to finance the continuation and expansion of activities before project
closing. At present, all the programs generated by the project are being fully financed in the
national budget, with objectives that exceeded those of the project for 1997. The Government
has fulfilled its commitment to increase public spending in the education sector, necessary to
sustain the quality improvements and targeted programs that the project helped support. During
the last few years, there has been an increase in the education share of public spending (which
was 13. 1% of estimated total public expenditures in 1990 to 15.5 % in 1997). In part, this
reflects that the project was not an isolated effort to improve basic education but was a program
that supported a national policy to improve quality and equity. The Government's continued
commitment to this policy assures sustainability.
5.3   Another aspect that favors sustainability is the fact that the reforms in secondary
education were built upon the experiences of MECE-BASICA and the extension of project sub-
components, such as ENLACES and the PMEs.
5.4   The project has brought deep changes in pedagogy that have had a marked impact on
activity in the class. The key instrument, the PME, has supported pedagogical decentralization,
teacher professionalism and pedagogical innovation. The project has provoked deep changes in
culture and mentality in the main stakeholders in the sector, bringing changes and innovations to
the schools, and involving the main actors in the education process (teachers, parents,
supervisors, etc.) It restored the confidence of teachers and other actors and deeply involve them
in the reform.
6. Bank performance.
6.1   The Bank's performance was satisfactory. It maintained a close relationship and dialogue
with the Borrower during all the phases of the project. The Bank provided financing and
technical support for an innovative operation, highly valued by the Borrower. Project design was
kept flexible, adapting to the needs of its innovative approach and to the particularities of the
12



beneficiaries and participating institutions during project implementation. Specifically, the most
remarkable contributions to the program were:
* The significant value added, as perceived by the Borrower, during the preparation and design
of the project. The expertise in education matters and knowledge of procedures by Bank
professionals helped the MECE team which lacked experience during preparation.
* The substantial contribution during supervision missions, that were regularly conducted, and
covered all aspects of the project and sector issues.
* The expertise and guidance by the Bank in project management and implementation, that
helped the Ministry to review globally at the program periodically.
* The support to a comprehensive change process in the education sector, bringing a reputation
for neutrality, avoiding politicization of the process, and guaranteeing receiving the best
international advice and experience on education.
6.2   The differences in views between the Borrower and the Bank regarding changes in the
project design, specifically, were constructively resolved during project implementation. The
Bank showed a timely and flexible response to the changing needs of the project. Standard
procurement procedures for goods and consultants proved rigid, for instance for the PME and the
classroom libraries. This caused in some cases, delays to implementation. The Bank and the
Borrower used flexibility and imagination, to adapt procurement practices.
6.3   The new project for secondary education, MECE-MEDIA, and an extensive portfolio of
education projects in neighboring Argentina allowed the Bank team to meet the Borrower'
expectations in terms of technical assistance that would have been otherwise impossible with the
resources allocated for project supervision.
7. Borrower performance.
7.1   The Borrower's performance was highly effective and efficient. This reflected a high
degree of commitment to the project and the skills of the team in charge of preparation and
implementation. The dialogue with the Bank team was constant and fluid, allowing for
successful resolution of difficulties during project implementation. The Borrower complied with
its obligations and carried out project implementation timely and skillfully. It kept at all
moments a flexible approach to project implementation, adjusting to the changing circumstances
or the needs of the different beneficiaries and participants in the project. It is worth noting the
changes in organizational culture that the project has helped bring to the Ministry of Education.
The Project Implementation Unit conducted skillful relationships with other departments and
institutions involved in project implementation, moving the programs forward and meeting the
targets. In those cases where the Borrower could not fulfill the objectives set out originally, such
as the teacher training component, it was not due to lack of effort.
13



8. Assessment of Outcomes.
8.1   The objectives set by the project were relevant, realistic and attainable. The targets set for
the project's components were reasonable. These have been overwhelmingly achieved and, in
many instances, exceeded. This can be seen in Tables 5 and 6 that include improvements related
to project objectives and project targets. Improvements in quality of education, equity and in
efficiency have been measured as much as possible and in the case of the components of rural
education, Programa de Mejoramiento Educativo and preschool education, have been assessed
by external evaluations and cast light on how to improve these programs in the future, providing
valuable inputs for policy makers.
8.2   The project helped the Government advance in the transformation of the education sector
and helped lay the ground for the education reform launched in 1996. Building on the educational
reforms implemented in the previous decade, MECE BASICA has deepened the decentralization
of the education system; in terms of quality, it has brought remarkable improvements to the
pedagogy of primary education, profoundly changed the way schools determine how to improve
the quality of teaching, provided relevant textbooks, teaching and learning materials, improved
infrastructure and brought technology to the class with a sound pedagogical focus.
8.3  In terms of equity, it has built on previous experiences such as the pilot program P-900, to
target most at risks schools and those with the worst performance and to implement consistently
activities of positive discrimination to provide equal access to quality education. It has
developed a rural program for basic education, integrated today in the MINEDUC that has
produced remarkable results in terms of student achievements, teachers' quality and relevance of
the local culture to the curriculum.
8.4  It has upgraded the management capacity in the sector. Without bringing a full reform to
the MINEDUC, it has introduced and enhanced changes in the organizational culture of the
Ministry of Education and the stakeholders of the education sector.
9.    Key Lessons Learned.
9.1   The project unit and the Bank have jointly evaluated on a regular basis, during the life of
the project, implementation of the program to improve the quality and equity of basic education
and the results. These exercises have been instrumental in pointing out the main lessons learned
and they have been incorporated in the design of the Project to Improve the Quality of Secondary
Education (MECE-MEDIA) and to the main elements of the 1996 education reform program.
The project included, as well, external evaluations of certain components of the program that
have complemented previous analysis and will support future policy developments in basic
education. The following aspects are highlighted:
9.2   Long term vision and permanence of objectives and teams: The establishment of
democracy in Chile created a favorable environment to undertake substantial educational changes
supported by the project. At the center of the Government's policies was fostering the
development of the country's human resources and introducing quality and equity in the
14



education system, as pillars of the strategy to promote economic development. During the
project, commitment at the highest level of government (two Presidents, two Ministers of '
Finance and five Ministers of Education) to this core set of policies provided continuity to the
process of change. The project was designed and implemented by the same high quality team,
providing consistency and stability. In addition, there was a direct link and fluid communication
between the political and technical levels. This project has set the base for the transformation of
secondary education started in 1995 and the comprehensive education reform program launched
in 1996.
9.3   Focusing on the learning process in the classroom and teacher participation: Chile's
experience on improving basic education emphasized improving the pedagogy and learning
process at the classroom level. It chose a bottom-up approach to foster teacher and community
participation. It was a risky approach considering the traditional reticence of teachers and
supervisors to assume direct responsibility in quality improvement actions. This difficulty was
overcome by sequencing implementation, making a large investment in training, manuals,
guidelines, some exchange of experience, and renewing the role of supervision. The PME, one
of the most effective parts of the MECE, proved to be successful and key to initiating the
transformation process of basic education. The PME grants had an important impact on the
management and organizational culture of the school. They initiated a process which has
enhanced pedagogical autonomy at the schools, strengthened the relation between the school and
the community and brought to teachers the value of interdisciplinary practices in pedagogy.
They contributed decisively to put in place the gradual transformation of the teachers' vision and
practice of their role as that of an isolated and routinized practitioner of externally defined tasks,
to a professional member of a team, responsible for the design and implementation of
autonomously defined strategies of pedagogical improvement which questioned the traditional
frontal approach in favour of a definition of the teaching role as "learning facilitator".
9.4   Diversity of approaches and its adaptation to the context: Project design and
implementation were specifically adapted to the diversity of the Chilean education system which
has both private and public providers, formal and informal systems, rural and urban type of
schooling, and wide socio-economic differences among student populations. The rural education
and the preschool programs are an example of this. The project counted on a strong basis to
design these programs, using the experience of the pilot program P900 targeted to deprived
schools as well as the background technical work during project preparation. Together, these
provided a good mapping for an effective and efficient targeting. The program of rural
education focused on the specific characteristics of rural schools to improve the learning
achievements of the students. It concentrated on pedagogy, provided substantial resources to
rural schools, and it targeted those at higher risks. A new space for teachers' professional
encounter and development, the "micro-centers", broke the isolation of rural teachers and created
a particularly effective tool of in-service training and pedagogical change. This had a great
impact on the quality of the education in the rural sector, reducing the learning achievement gap
with schools showing better results. On the other hand, the pre-school education program
successfully achieved an increase in coverage of preschool education using different approaches
for rural and urban areas. It supported the expansion of semi-private institutions in the urban
areas, and in rural areas, it supported informal programs that concentrated on the mothers to
15



reach a poorer segment of population that other programs did not capture. The program had an
effective impact on mother's behaviors, that was extremely beneficial for the development and
leaming capabilities of the children.
9.5   Prioritization and sequencing of education changes: The project was characterized by
sequencing the changes and by using permanent monitoring and evaluation of project
implementation, to retrofit the project with the lessons learned, and to expand pilot experiences
at the national level. For instance, the P900 program in the most deprived schools mostly in rural
areas was the basis for expansion to the rest of the system. The school network ENLACES
started with 100 schools and one university, and later was expanded to 50 percent of all primary
schools with the support of fifteen universities. The pedagogic materials and methodology used
in preschool was first tested in schools and progressively adopted by the rest of the system.
9.6   Lessons regarding the implementation process of project components: The evaluation of
project implementation points out the following lessons:
* Preschool: the importance of: (i) constant monitoring in order to adjust programs in a
timely fashion; and (ii) training families which changed the way in which they participated
and related to the school, to their children's education and to teachers.
* School health: the favorable effects of: (i) working with an inter-sectoral strategy that
combines health and education institutions; and (ii) buying services from providers.
* Textbooks, classroom libraries: the need to: (i) coordinate among the participating actors,
with advance planning, in order to increase the relevance of books and other teaching
materials to the diversity of schools; (ii) give clear guidelines to editors on structure and
contents; and (iii) train teachers and supervisors in the use of new materials, used for the first
time in schools.
- Computer network: the importance of: (i) starting with a pilot with one university; (ii)
establishing a network with universities to provide guidance and technical assistance and
improve contents; (iii) focusing on teachers needs and not technology itself; and (iv) putting
emphasis on teacher training and long term support.
* PME: the need to: (i) foresee the difficulties in actually making funds available to schools;
and (ii) sequence the program implementation and monitor it constantly.
* Infrastructure: the relevance of creating awareness that investment in infrastructure must
be undertaken from the point of view of improving the quality of education.
*  Special education: the importance of: (i) changing the focus from a clinical view to a
pedagogical one; and (ii) active family participation.
* Institutional strengthening: institutional strengthening depends on the will to change a
culture and the existence of leadership; and this process is helped if a ministry is changed in
concert with the rest of the public sector.
16



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CHILE
PRIMARY EDUCATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 3410-CL)
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1:  Summary of Assessment
Table 2:  Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3:  Project Timetable
Table 4:  Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5A: Efficiency, Quality and Equity Indicators
Table 5B: Rural Education Program: Comparative Results on Student Achievements
Table 6A: Key Indicators for Project Monitoring; Preschool Education Monitoring
Table 6B: Primary Education Monitoring
Table 6C: Institutional Strengthening
Table 6D: Project Execution Monitoring Unit
Table 7:  Studies Included in Project
Table 8A: Project Execution by components
Table 8B: Project Execution by categories
Tabke 8C: Project Financing
Table 9:  Status of Legal Covenants
Table 10: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 11: Bank Resources: Missions
17



Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives         Substantial       Partial         Negligible       Not applicable
(/)        ~~(1/)                               010(/
Macro Policies                                                         E                 9/
Sector Policies                     /                                 E
Financial Objectives                                [2                E                   /
Institutional Development            a/                               [                  I
Physical Objectives                  9               E                 E                 E
Poverty Reduction                    a                 l              E                  9/
Gender Issues                        E               a                U                   /
Other Social Objectives             9/               E                E 
Environmental Objectives             E               E                E                   /
Public Sector Management              l                l              E                   /
Private Sector Development                           El               E                  9/
Other (specify)                      El              E                E                  E
B. Project Sustainability               Likely                  Unlikelv                   Uncertain
(v')                      (/)                        (V)
9/                        El                         El
18



(Continued)
ffighly
C. Bank Performance                     satisfactorv          Satisfactory               Deficient
(V)                      (e)                       (V)
Identification                      V                         E                        I]
Preparation Assistance              V/                         ] 
Appraisal                            ,/                       a 
Supervision                          V                       I]
D. Borrower Performance                       satisfactorv    Satisfactorv     Deficient
(1)            ($)              (/)
Preparation                                   /
Implementation                                /              U               E
Covenant Compliance                           ,
Operation (if applicable)                                    ri              Iii
E. Assessment of Outcome              satisfactory    Satisfactorv  Unsatisfactorv     unsatisfactory
19



Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/credit title           Purpose              Year of approval              Status
Preceding operations
1.Vocational Training    Expansion of the training         1965                   Completed
Project                  capacity of the National
Institute for Vocational
Ln 43 1 -CH              Training.
($2.7 m)
2. Second Vocational                                       1970                   Completed
Training Project
Ln666-CH
($1.5 M)
3. Third Education       Support the MINEDUC to            1970                   Completed
Project                  expand and improve
primary teacher training
Ln. 668-CH               colleges and agriculture
($7 m)                   secondary schools.
Following operations
1. Secondary Education    Improve the internal and         1995              Under implementation
Quality Improvement      external efficiency, quality
Project                  and equity of all the
Ln. 3883-CH              municipal and government
subsidized private
($ 35 million)           secondary schools, as well
as strengthen sectoral
managerial capacity.
2. Higher Education      Improve the performance           1998               To become effective
Improvement Project      of the Chilean higher
education system in terms
Ln 4404-CH               of coherence and
($ 145 million)          efficiency, quality,
relevance and equity.
20



Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle                  Date Planned              Date Actual/
_ _ _ _ _  I  I Latest Estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)              May 1990               April-May 1990
Preparation                                           September 1990           December 1990
Pre-Appraisal                                          March 1991                March 1991
Appraisal                                               May 1991                  June 1991
Negotiations                                           August 1991               August 1991
Letter of Development Policy (Policy Statement on the  August 1991               August 1991
Education Sector)
Board Presentation                                    September 1991           November 1991
Signing                                                October 1991            November 1991
Effectiveness                                          January 1992              March 1992
Midterm Review                                          May 1996                  May 1996
Loan closing                                            June 1998                 June 1998
Final Disbursement                                     March 1998               December 1997
21



Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ thousands)
FY92  FY93   FY94  FY95  FY96  FY97 FY98
Appraisal Estimate                     12.4   46.6    80.2  109.9  135.5  158.4  170.0
Actual                                  8.3   12.1    44.1   67.2  81.6  98.8  116.7
Actual as % of Estimate               67%    26%       55%    61%   60%   62%   69%
Date of Final Disbursement            December 17, 1997
22



Table 5A: Efficiency, Quality and Equity Indicators
Category     Educational                   Indicators                   SAR Value       1996
Level                                                    1991 (%)       (%)
EFFICIENCY       Preschool   - Net enrollment of 4 to 5 year olds                 28.4        82.0
- Student-teacher ratio in:
Municipal schools                               29.0        32.0
Private-Subsidized schools                      35.0        42.0
- Per pupil cost (in constant pesos)              76,600      111,900
Primary    - Net enrollment of 6-to-I 3-year olds              94.6         96.5
- Late entrance to primary education (percent of     17.7          --
students behind the normal age-cohort)
- Repetition rates:
Average for the entire primary cycle             12.2         5.8
Average for the first two grades                   --         5.6
- Dropout rates:                                     2.7          1.8
- Primary completion rates:
Internal efficiency                              57.5          --
Average number of years to graduate from         12.4         9.7
primary school (years)
- Student-teacher ratios (1):
_______ __  Municipal schools                            26.1       28.71
Private-subsidized schools                       39.6       42.54
- Primary rural incomplete schools                  55.0        18.34
- Per pupil cost in subsidized schools (in constant  63,400   125,107
pesos)                                                                I
Secondary                                                                         I
- Net enrollment of age cohort 14-17 years           81.6          --
QUALITY           Primnary    - Cognitive achievement in Spanish:
Private-paid schools:    4 t rade                79.0        86.1
8th grade                  76.6       80.0*
Private-subsidized:   4t grade                   58.0        74.3
gde                        58.9       68.0*
Municipal schools:    4 grade                    50.2        63.3
8_ grade                   53.0        62.0
National Average:     4n grade                   55.0          --
____ __                           8 grade                      --           --
- Cognitive achievement in Mathematics:
Private-paid schools:    4 grade                 73.9        86.6
8_ grade                   76.0       80.0*
Private-subsidized:   4t grade                   54.4        73.2
____grade                  56.2       65.0*
Municipal schools:    4th grade                  48.5        67.7
;_____________    _                    8th grade                  51.5        59.0*
National Average:     4 grade                    52.4          --
8_ grade                     --
EQUITY           Preschool   - Average value of proposed indicators                     Improved
and      - Standard deviation of provincial observations of          Reduced
Primary    above indicators
- Highest to lowest scores of provincial                    Reduced
observations of above indicators
Category      Educational                  Indicators                  SAR Value       1996
23



Level   |                                               1991 (%)  | (
QUALITITATIVE  PRODEPE   - Monitor the process                                                A
INDICATORS
- Monitor teachers, principals and supervisors                A
participation
- Evaluate impact on above indicators                         A
___________________   Inservice   - Monitor process                                          A
Teachers   - Evaluate impact on above indicators                         A
Training    - Teachers promotion rates                                   A
- Number of teachers assigned to deprived                     A
schools
Educational  - Relevancy for decision-making and targeting                A
Information  - Accuracy                                                   A
_ System     - 0portunity                                               A
* Indicates 1997 data.
A = Target accomplished.
(1) It includes teachers in the classroom.
24



Table 5B: RURAL EDUCATION PROGRAM
Comparative Results on Student Achievements (based on the Achievement Assessment
System -SIMCE)
SIMCE 1992-1996. Schools participating in the Program on both years .
(Number of cases: 55)
Scores                  1992              1996          Variation (%)
Rural Education   Language                47,42             58,02            22,33%
Program           Mathematics             47,36             58,14            22,8%
National Average  Language                68,0              71,84             5,6%
_  Mathematics           67,3              71,2              5,8%
SIMCE 1992-1996. Schools participating in the Program in 1996.
(Number of cases: 19)
Scores                  1992              1996          Variation (%)
Rural Education   Language                53,39             58,77             10,1%
Program           Mathematics             54,20             60,30            11,2%
National Average  Language                68,0              71,84             5,6%
.__________  Mathematics           67,3              71,2              5,8%
Note: The first table includes schools that were in the Rural Education Program both in 1992 and 1996, while the
second table reflects the results of an evaluation of schools that were in the Programn in 1996, despite the year they
joint it.
25



Table 6A: Key Indicators For Project Monitoring
Preschool Education Monitoring
Action Plan                        Original   Revised   Achieved    %
Target     Target     Target
I.    Infrastructure:
Classroom Construction (number of classrooms)                 100                    102    102
Classroom Remodeling (number of classrooms)                    75        100          75     75
Classroom Furniture (number of equipped classrooms)           100                    102    102
l____  Creation of Kindergartens*                                                68          84      75
_____  Creation of open centers (Integra)                                         13         13    100
II.    Teaching Materials for:
_____  Municipal Schools (sets/course)                              4,408     4,400       7,270    165
JUNJI-INTEGRA (sets/children)                             110,690    26,182       16,009     61
l____  Rural "Know Your Child' Program (training/sets)              1,560        --        1,560    100
Student Guides (number of guides)                          25,194    24,496       18,793     77
Urban "Know Your Child" Program (schools)                   3,424         ---      4,086    119
Urban "Know Your Child" Program (households)              179,000         ---     72,580     41
Urban "Know Your Child" Program (videocassettes/units)         42         --         73    725
Audiovisual Equipment (units)                                   6         ---          0      0
Classroom libraries*                                           ---     7,290       7,290    100
_____  Guide "Books in Preschool" (number of books)*                  ---      7,500      7,500    100
III.   Food (Daily):                                              18,000    21,500       21,930    102
IV.   Hiring of Additional Personnel as a Result of Increased
_____  Cover and Improved Oualitv (Permanent):
Permanent Contracts:      - Supervisors                        73         65          67    103
- Teachers                         259        163         121      74
- Auxiliaries                      804        539         445      83
Temporary Contracts:      - Child Supervisors               1,560         15           5     33
l________________________    (community)                                             _     _
- Teacher Training and               2          -           2    100
Education Research Centers
l ____   ____________________________   Teachers
- Specialists (3 months)             4                      4    100
- Experts and Specialists            7                      0       0
- Secretary                           I                     0       0
- Communications Media               2          1           1    100
I__ I_I Specialists
- Education agents for               --       150          81      54
community kindergarten*
- Provincial monitor*                          80          72      90
IL_ |__                          (years/person)
- Local monitors*                             250         180      72
L_________________________ I(years/person)
- Project coordinators               --       200          97      49
V.    Program Training.
"Know Your Child,"        - SEREMI Coordinator                169         13          43    331
Pyramid Plan and Local    - Supervisors                       697         52         160    308
Integration Workshops     - Assistants                      1,280        350         810     60
(Five Sessions)           - Mothers                        23,400         ---     13,152     56
- Central Level Professionals       96         --- _     _         ---
r- DAEM                            1,336         ---
|  7T      --                 Action Plan                        Original   Revised   Achieved    %
26



l____                                                         Target     Target     Target
- Teachers                      1,459      3,300      3,450    104
- Auxiliaries                  10,600        ---          0      0
- Regional Program                 12       200         97      49
Coordinators
- Base Coordinators               119                    --
- Parents (on-site training)*   -_-        3,405      3,405    100
- Parents (distance training)*     ---     1,128      1,128    100
- Community monitors*              ---     1,350        810     60
VI.   Radio Personnel Training Workshops:
Two workshops, eight events                                160                     0       0
VII.   Use of Mass Communication Media:
- Broadcast Announcements                                100                   100    100
- Radio Documentaries                                     12                     0      0
- TV Spots                                                20                     0      0
- TV Segments                                             20        ---         0       0
-Press Packages                                            4        ---          0      0
- Set of Education Materials for Parents ("micromedia")    4        ---          4    100
- Set of materials for promoting demand ("micromedia")     4        ---          4    100
VIII.  Evaluation:
Studies (number of studies)                                  5          1          1    100
* Indicates the target was NOT originally included in the SAR.
27



Table 6B: Primary Education Monitoring
Action Plan                            Original    Revised   Achieved   %
l______________________________________________________    Target            Target    Target
OBJECTIVE: Improve Quality and Equity in Primary Education.
I.    Pedagogical Decentralization                             ________
Formation of team at central level (persons)                    12                   12   100
l____  Support Materials (manuals)                                  60,000               39,200    65
l_____ Targeted Dissemination (persons)                               912         ----              -
Hiring of supervisors (persons)                                228                  364   160
Training (persons)                                           10,662    10,350     8,674    84
Teacher training on PME*                                        ---    76,113    76,113   100
r____  Training of rural-area supervisors (No. of supervisors)        288         ---      430   149
l____  PME in basic schools (Total)                                  5,000        ---    3,675   100
PME in special schools*                                         ---      298        298   100
PME in rural microcenters*                                      ---       460   460****
Total PME Support packages                                   5,000         ---    4,124    82
l____  Workshops for PME in action (people)*                           ---   20,000      16,843    84
II.    Number of Textbooks, Guides and Teaching Materials
l_____ Textbooks for urban areas                                 21,200,000       ---  30,470,918   144
_____  Textbooks: basic functions                                 115,000         ---   120,000   104
Teaching materials sets                                    822,613         ---  2,198,000   293
Textbooks for rural areas                                 2,250,000        ---  2,159,570    98
Guides for rural areas                                      121,700    21,700    38,090   176
III.   Rural Education (No. of persons)
Training for staff of single, two and three teacher schools   6,170        ---    9,671   157
(teachers)
Training of rural supervisors                                  288         ---      430   149
Hiring of rural teachers                                       500         ---        0      0
Hiring of specialists                                            5         ---        3    65
Guide for curriculum development*                               ---     6,500    16,500   254
Creation of microcenters*                                       ---       466       510   109
Working notebook in language*                                   ---  3,264,000  3,264,000   100
IV.   Advanced Teacher Training    _           _       _                          _
Workshops with Universities                                     15         ---       15   100
Audiovisual materials for advanced training                  12,919        ---   22,312   172
Written materials (copies)                                 700,000    18,226      8,226    45
_____  Hiring of personnel (persons)                                   33         ---       33   100
Training for Promoters (municipal and private)                 819                  819   100
Training for Improvement Project Supervisors                  3,000
Training in Improvement Projects**:  I-  principal            15,980*                        *
l                              - 1~~~~~~~~~~~~~ teacher each--
Materials for distance training (sets)**                     13,775*.*
Classroom-based training (teachers)                         63,000         ---    6,300   100
Teacher training in learning difficulties (teachers)          8,400    10,808     6,538    60
i   Workshop equipment (sets)***                               801                   **
l _  Texts for leaming disabilities*                                           4,910      1,300    26
Workshops for learning disabilities (number of particip)*       ---    12,888     6,772    45
Hiring of personnel: professionals (year/persons)*              ---       198        57    29
- Communal monitors                                       ---       788         56     7
- Regional coordinator                                     ---       75        26    35
- Administrative personnel                                ---        18       13.5    75
28



Action Plan                            Original    Revised   Achieved   %
Target     Target    Target
V.    Health Assistance                                        ___
l____ Hiring of administrative personnel (persons)                       6                    6   100
Training (events)                                                76         ---      521   686
Student services (number of students)                       920,000   1,400,000  1,862,751   133
Teacher training*                                                       11,360    11,360   100
.____  Parents training*                                                ---    4,865      4,865   100
_____ Primary healthcare practitioners training*                                3,627      3,627   100
l____ Community coordinators*                                           ---     3,868      3,868   100
Materials (manuals)                                           7,975      8,000    11,620   140
Support materials for specialists*                                    1,700,000  2,776,747   163
VI.   Education Data Processing
Hiring of personnel (Persons/Year)                               38                   38   100
Technical equipment (units)                                     308       280      2,122   758
Support equipment (units)                                         3                    3   100
Peripheral equipment*                                                      338      1,455   430
Software*                                                                  800     4,373   548
School modules*                                                            110       154   140
Institutional modules*                                                      10        31   310
Teacher training*                                                ---     1,395     2,080   149
VII.   Data Processing and Computers for Education
Professionals (number of persons)                                 7         ---        0      0
Surveys (units)                                             223,040                    0      0
VIII.  Classroom Libraries
Provision of libraries for 1st and 2nd grades (sets)         11,495         ---   17,336   151
Provision for third and fourth grades 5sets)                  13,070        ---    14,140   108
Provision of classroom libraries for 5 and 6th grades*  _               13,240    13,240   100
r Provision of classroom libraries for multigrade schools*                6,220      6,230   100
1Dictionaries for students* _                                            66,400   153,636   231
Dictionaries for teachers*                                              16,600    19,090   115
Atlas*                                                                  66,400    76,360   115
i____  Booklets for methodological support*                                 _  30,000    30,000   100
| Guide for the use of libraries of 4h grade  _=_=                        8,200      8,200   100
IX.   Infrastructure
Provision of basic signs for exterior (sets)                  7,980     19,245    19,245   100
Provision of additional signs for exterior (sets)             7,140      6,789      6,789   100
School repairs (number of schools)                            2,530      2,510     2,232    89
Classroom construction and equipping (No. of classrooms)        500         ---      193    89
*   Included in targets achieved in pedagogic decentralization.
** Included in pedagogical decentralization.
**" Inluded in teaching material sets.
**** The 460 PMEs of Rural Microcenters benefited 3,022 uni, bi, and tri teachers rural schools
29



Table 6C: Institutional Strengthening
Action Plan                             Original   Revised   Achieved    %
______ _____ ______ _____ _____ ______ _____ _____ Target  Target  Target
1.    Infrastructure
Specialists in physical plant (professional)                       8                    10    125
Manual on physical plant                                           1                     1    100
Procurement manual                                                 I                     1    100
II.    Data Processing                              _____
Microcomputers (units)                                             2         ---         2    100
____   PCs (units)                                                      170                   134      79
Servers (units)                                                   15                    15    100
Micro 286 (workstations) for teacher training and education       12                     0      0
research center   _________ _
Printers (units)                                                 176                   171     97
Support units                                                     54         15         10     67
National network: communications and networks (units)            308         15         15    100
Communications hardware for teacher training and educational      15                     0      0
research center (units)            _                                          _       ___
III.   Software
National network and SIMCE service (units)                         5                     5    100
National network: communications and networks (units)             19                     0      0
Compilers and operating system (units)                            38 .
Central databases (units)                                          I                     1    100
Workstation utilities (units)                                    29290                366    126
IV.   Support for National Network
Installation of system (No. of staff months)                         70                    0       0
l____  External assistance (number of staff months)                      25          3          1      33
Training for national network (persons)                          430             _    504    117
V.    MINEDUC Operating Services
National Network                                                 310         15         10     67
Software Licenses & Operating Systems (No. of licenses)           19         14                74
Net National Equipment Maintenance (No. of equipment)            870      1,043        181      17
:____  Net National Equipment Updating (Actual)                           17                    0       0
CPEIP's Digital and Documenting Equipment (computers)              2         ---         0      0
CPEIP's Publications (No. of publication)                          5         --          0      0
.VI.|SIMCE                                                          ___ _=
l     | Experimental SIMCE/med. Test                                      6          4         12    300
L Final SIMCE/med. Test                                            4         --          3     75
Variable factors in SIMCE sample                                   3         ---         3      0
Publication with SIMCE results*                                   ---     9,435     19,958    212
Guides for interpretation*                                        ---     9,400     17,421    185
Information materials*                                            ---   202,200   201,200    100
VII.   Equipment
Office equipment (units)                                         480        150        150    100
Office furniture (tests)                                         140        510       419      82
Remodeling (units)                                                40         ---        24     60
Vehicles (units)                                                  48         40         40    100
Financial Inspection manuals                                       1         ---         0      0
Support to management activities*:                                                         .
- Hiring of administrative personnel                                    80         27     34
- Manual Plandep                                             ---         I          2    200
30



Action Plan                                Original   Revised   Achieved    %
Target     Target      Target
- Inspection manual                                                           I 1        2     200
- Seminars (number of persons)                                            1,000       1,250     126
- Courses on administrative retraining                           ---          6          7      117
- Studies                                                        ---          6         10      167
- Publications of studies                                         _          50        600   1,200
-Advisory services to regional rnanagement                       --8                    12     150l
VIII.  Trqaingn. 
.   Courses for inspectors (number of courses)                             30         15          21     140l
_   Management retraining for inspectors (courses)                          6          --7               115l
Project formnulation and appraisal (courses)                          30          15          26     173
Personnel management techniques (courses)                             30-----                         --
Educational planning at micro level (courses)                         30           ---                 O
Studies for other areas of MINEDUC                             _     _          _7             4      75
31



Table 6D: Project Execution Monitoring Unit
Action Plan                            Original   Revised   Achieved    %
Target    Target    Target
Coordination staff (persons/year)                                       12         ---        12    100
Technical-Administrative Staff (persons/year)                            8         48       33.7     70
Foreign Experts (persons/year)                                           5         20         8      40
National Experts (persons/year)                                          5         10        12    120
Computers (hardware)                                                     7         ---       42    600
Printers (units)                                                         4         ---        18    450
Copying Machines (units)                                                 5         -----
Typewriters (units)                                                      2         ---        3    150
Furniture (sets)                                                        20                   36    180
Studies and Evaluation (studies)                                        10                    0       0
32



Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Studies on Middle Education                      Institution
Coverage and quality indicators for secondary  Pontificia Universidad Cat6lica
education in Chile
Description and evaluation of the process of  U. Cat6lica de la Santisima Concepci6n
curriculum development
Analysis and evaluation of models for             Universidad de Santiago
production and update of curriculum
development
Design of the model for management and         Pontificia Universidad Cat6lica
supervision of process in E.M.
Requirements for teacher training              Pontificia Universidad Cat6lica
Determining quality in secondary education in  Pontificia Universidad Cat6lica
Chile
Practice of work and socialization                  Universidad de Chile
Education preparation for labor market         Pontificia Universidad Cat6lica
Curriculum design proposal for secondary         Universidad de la Frontera
schools in the rural sector
Practice of work and socialization (quality                PIIE
focusing)
International experience in curriculum design  Centro de Investigaci6n y Desarrollo de la
for the structure of secondary education in the      Educaci6n (CIDE)
evaluation system
Social demands on secondary education                     CPU
Evaluation of internal and external efficiency    Universidad de Santiago
of secondary education and its modalities
Evaluation Studies
"Evaluation of the PME Program"                Pontificia Universidad Cat6lica
"Evaluation of the use of textbooks and    Centro de Investigaci6n y Desarrollo de la
classroom libraries in subsidized basic              Educaci6n (CIDE)
schools"
"Evaluation Study of the Rural Education  Universidad Austral de Chile, Universidad de
Programs"                                  la Playa Cincha de Ciencias de Educaci6n
"Evaluation of Preschool Programs in Chile"    MINEDUC, CEDEP, CEANIM
33



Table 8A: Implementation by Component (in thousand US$)
(From 1992 to 1997)
Components                                      1992-1997
Programmed       Accomplished       Progress
_____ ____ ____ ____ ____in   SA R_                       _ _ _  _ _ _
Preschool Education                    39,400            34,023           86%
Basic Education                       180,600           165,631           92%
Secondary Education                     2,600             2,710          104%
Institutional Strengthening            16,400             9,526           58%
Project Implementation Unit             4,000             4,276          107%
TOTAL                                 243,000           216,166          89%
34



Table 8B: Implementation by Categories (in US$ thousands)
Cona Pt                                                1992 -1997
Category of Expense      Financing                    Programmed           Accomplished         Progress
in SAR
Civil Works              World Bank                             33,390              27,786              83%
Gov. Counterpart                        6,010               7,069            118%
_____________________  Subtotal                         39,400              34,855             88%
Equipment                World Bank                              18,450              8,380              45%
Gov. Counterpart                        2,050              18,641            909%
Subtotal                               20,500              27,021            132%
Books and Teacher        World Bank                              18,700             10,912              58%
materials                Gov. Counterpart                        15,300             19,720             129%
Subtotal                               34,000              30,632             90%
Training and consultants  World Bank                              7,598              6,427              85%
Gov. Counterpart                        7,402              14,055             190%
Subtotal                               15,000              20,482            137%
Eligible subprojects     World Bank                              32,373             18,603              57%
Gov. Counterpart                        5,827               3,340              57%
Subtotal                               38,200              21,493             57%
Salary Increases         World Bank                             20,163              16,622              82%
Gov. Counterpart                       31,537              27,202              86%
Subtotal                               51,700              43,824             85%
PIU Salaries and various  World Bank                             12,727              10,201             80%
Gov. Counterpart                        1,273               2,788            219%
Subtotal                               14,000              12,989             93%
Food                     World Bank                              12,966              8,035              62%
Gov. Counterpart                        2,334               1,944              83%
Subtotal                               15,300               9,979             65%
Health cont. expenses    World Bank                               6,273              5,637              90%
Gov. Counterpart                          627                747              119%
Subtotal                                6,900               6,384             93%
Operational costs        World Bank                               7,360              3,794              52%
Gov. Counterpart                          640               4,263             666%
Subtotal                                8,000               8,057            101%
TOTAL                    World Bank                             170,000             116,397             68%
Gov. Counterpart                       73,000              99,769             137%
I_____________________ .Subtotal                                243,000             216,166             89%
Note: Expenses related to Category 11 (Refinancing) are not included.
35



Table 8C: Project Financing
Appraisal Estimate (US$M)                     Actual/Latest Estimate(US$M)
Local        Foreign           Total           Local           Foreign         Total
Source                 Costs          Costs                            Costs           Costs
IBRD/IDA                                     170.00           170.00                           116.7      116.7
Government of Chile           73.00             --             73.00            99,8                       99,8
TOTAL                        73.00          170.00          243.00             99,8                      216,2
36



Table 9: Status of Legal Covenants
Agreement  Section  Covenant Present  Original    Revised         Description of          Comments
type    status  fulflhlment  fiulfiliment    covenant
date       date
Special     Section   I       C       Signing                Opening of and maintain a
Account    2.02 (b)                    date                  special deposit account in
the Central Bank
Commitment Section   2        C        Signing               Pay a commitment charge
charge      2.04                      date                   of % of 1% per annum on
the principal amount of the
loan withdrawn form time
to time
Interest    Section   2       C        Signing    -          Pay interests on the
2.05                       date                  principal amount of the
loan, withdrawn and
outstanding, at a rate
defined periodically.
Principal    Section   I      In                 -           Repay the principal of the
2.07              progress                       loan, in accordance with
schedule 3 of the loan
agreement.
Account    Section   1        C                              Maintain separate records
records     4.01. (a)                                        and separate accounts to
reflect resources and
expenditures in the project
(both from borrower and
other implementing
entities)
Audit of    Section   I       C                              Have the above mentioned
records and  4.01.(b)                                        records audited annually,
accounts    (i),(ii)                                         by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank,
and furnish those to the
Bank no later than six
months after the end of the
year.
Submit      Section   5       C       Before loan            Provide the Bank with
models of   6.01 (a)                   effectiveness         models of contracts of
contracts                                                    those to be entered by the
borrower with
implementing agencies
Project     Section   5       C        Before loan           Adopt the PRODEPE
Manuals    6.01 (b)                    effectiveness         Operating Manual, the
Inspection Manual and the
Supervision Manual.
37



Agreement   Section  Covenant Present  Original    Revised           Description of           Comments
type    status  fulfillment  fulfillment       covenant
date       date                                                     l
Regulations  Section   5        C       Before loan             Enact regulations for
6.01(c)                     effectiveness          inservice teacher training
certification based on
selectivity and quality
control merits.
PIU         Section   5         C       Before loan             Establish the Project
6.01 (d)                    effectiveness          Implementtion Unit
PIU         Schedule  5         C       At all times            Maintain a PIU and
5                           during project         employ a qualified Project
implementation         Manager.
Counterpart  Schedule 4         C       At all times            Provide funds and
Funds       5                           during project          resources needed for the
implementation         operation of the PIU.
Progress    Schedule  5         C       On Dec.3 1,             Furnish the Bank progress
reports     5                           June 30 of each         reports on the
year                   implementation and impact
of the project
Progress    Schedule            C       End of each             Review with the Bank the
reviews     5                           current year            progress made in the
implementation of the
project.
Budget      Schedule            C       October of              Furnish the Bank for
5                           each fiscal year        comments the public sector
education budget for the
following fiscal year.
Commitment Section              C       Life of the             Commitment to project
3.01(a)                     project                 objectives
Implementati Section            C       Life of the             CarTy out the project in
on Program   3.01(b)                    Project                 accordance with the
implementation program
set forth in Schedule 5.
Performance Schedule            C       Life of the             Take all actions necessary
indicators    5                         project                 to meet the performance
indicators set in the annex
to Schedule 5.
Agreements  Schedule            C       Before                  To enter into agreements
with        5                           approving each          with the implementing
Implementin                             eligible                entity concerned, in
g agencies                              subproject              accordance with the model
referred to in section 6.01
(a)
Cost        Schedule            NC      At all times            Apply the cost recovery
Recovery    5                           during project          policy referred to in
Policy                                  implementation          paragraph 3 (b) of
of Part A of the       Schedule I.
project
38



Agreement   Section  Covenant Present   Original        Revised          Description of             Comments
type     status  fulfillment  fulfillment         covenant
date        date
Counterpart  Section   4          C        Before Loan              Provide in the government
Funds        6.01 (e)                      effectiveness            budget counterpart funding
in accordance with
Schedule 5, and make it
available to the
MINEDUC for project
implementation.
Covenant types:
I. =  Accounts/audits                                  8. = Indigenous people
2. =  Financial performance/revenue generation from    9. = Monitoring, review, and reporting
beneficiaries                                   10. = Project implementation not covered by categories 1-9
3. =  Flow and utilization of project funds           11. = Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource
4. =  Counterpart funding                                     allocation
5. =  Management aspects of the project or executing   12. = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/
agency                                                regulatory/institutional action
6. =  Environmental covenants                         13. = Other
7. =  Involuntary resettlement
8. Current Status:
C = covenant complied with
CD = complied with after delay
CP = complied with partially
NC = not complied with
39



Table 10: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of                               Actual
Project Cycle                             ______11
Weeks                 US$
Preparation to Appraisal            7.3              19,255
Appraisal-Board                    11.3              34,324
Negotiations through              113.6             293,470
Board Approval
Supervision                        71.1             258,385
Completion                           4               20,000
TOTAL                             207.3             625,434
40



Table 11: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance Rating
Number                    Specialized    Implemen-    Develop-
Stage of        Month/         of        Days in    Staff Skills        tation          ment         Types of
Project Cycle        Year    Persons         Field      Represented        Status       Objectives    Problems
Through               Apr/90         6           15       SES,.Ec., C.
Appraisal             July/90        1            3       EA
Ag./90         5           15       SES, E,OA
Dec./90
10
March/91                            SES,DS,E,L,TA
9           15
Appraisal             June/91        3            4       DC,SES                _              _
through Board         Au/991         1           10       FMA
Approval__________
Supervision           Jan./92        1            4       SES                   S               S
March/92       4            4       SES,ES,P,DS           S               S
June/92        1           4        SES                   S               S
Oct/92         4            9       SES,C,EC             HS              HS
Oct/93         4            7       SES,POO, CTr         HS              HS
April /94      1           4        SES                  HS              HS
Oct/94         3            3       SES,POO,COS          HS              HS
May/95         1            5       SES                  HS              HS
April/96       5           10       HDE,SES,A,OO         HS              HS
Aug/96         1            5       HDE                  HS              HS
May/97         4           5        HDE,SES,C            HS              HS
Completion            Sept/98        2            2       POO,C
SES: Senior Education Specialist;                      C :Consultor
EA: Economic Analyst                                   E: Economist
OA: Operations Analyst                                 DS: Disbursement Specialist
DC: Division Chief                                     FMA: Financial Management and Audit
TA: Task Assisstant                                    L: Legal Specialist
POO: Principal Operations Officer                      P: Procurement Expert
CTT: Consultant on Teacher Training                    COS: Consultant on Organizational Services
HDE: Human Development Economist;                      A: Architect
Ec.: Economist
HS: Highly Satisfactory
S: Satisfactory
U: Unsatisfactory
41



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CHILE
PRIMARY EDUCATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 3410 - CH)
BORROWER'S FINAL EVALUATION REPORT
SANTIAGO DE CHILE, APRIL 12,1999.
1. EVALUATION OF THE OBJECTIVES, DESIGN AND OPERATIONAL
EXPERIENCE.
1.1. The project Improving the Quality and Equity of Education (MECE in Spanish), was
conceived and designed within the context of the transition to democracy, which began in 1990.
MECE, the main initiative of the government of President Aylwin, was a mid-term, national
strategy to substantially improve the quality and equity of the educational system. Both
objectives were considered to be indispensable requisites for a sustainable development strategy
in the country. The absence of significant investments in primary education in the country for
nearly two decades defined the context within which the project was generated and executed.
1.2. The project underwent a preparation process from May 1990 (identification mission) to
October 1991 (presentation to the Bank Board). It became effective on March 18, 1992. The
original project was estimated at USD 243 million, of which the IBRD would finance USD 170
million. The Chilean government would cover the remaining cost. In 1997, at Chile's request,
USD 49 million from the "non-allocated" category was cancelled, leaving the total IBRD
financing contribution at USD 120.7 million. The project was implemented in 6 years as
originally defined.
1.3. The project objectives consisted of: (i) improving the quality of learning in primary
education and the equity of its distribution; (ii) expanding coverage and improving the quality of
preschool education; (iii) improving the management capacity of the Ministry of Education; and
(iv) evaluating and proposing alternatives for improving the middle school education.
1.4. In order to fulfill the aforementioned objectives, project actions were organized into 4
components corresponding to the three levels of the educational system (preschool, primary, and
secondary), along with the fourth component referred to as institutional strengthening of the
Ministry. The sub components of each component, the total cost for each one, and their
implementation periods were as follows:
1



PRESCHOOL COMPONENT
16% of the total cost
Implementation: 6 years
Expanding Coverage:
1. Expanding coverage in urban sectors.
2. Increasing coverage to rural populations.
Improving Quality:
3. Personnel deployment.
4. Educational materials for class work and for working with parents.
5. Pyramidal improvement.
6. Local workshop improvement.
7. Social communications means.
8. Cost/effectiveness evaluation.
PRIMARY EDUCATION COMPONENT
74% of the total cost
Implementation: 6 years
Improving teaching conditions and materials:
1. Infrastructure investments.
2. School health.
3. Investments in textbooks and educational materials.
4. Classroom libraries.
5.Teachers' professional development.
Innovations for enriching the educational process:
6. Pedagogical decentralization (Educational Improvement Projects).
7. Rural education.
8. Educational uses of computers.
2



SECONDARY EDUCATION COMPONENT
1% of the total cost
Implementation: 2 years
1. Research
2. National dissemination and discussion
3. Proposal design for modernizing secondary education
INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING COMPONENT
6.8% of the total cost
Implementation: 6 years
1. Strengthening the learning assessment system (SIMCE)
2. Strengthening the Mineduc information systems
3. Equipment and vehicles for Mineduc at provincial level
4. Mineduc provincial offices' infrastructure
5. Personnel training
1.5. The design and strategy of the project were defined with the following purposes in mind: i)
to positively and consistently impact the teaching and learning process at classroom level in all
publicly supported preschool and primary schools in the country, with a combination of
investments in infrastructure, equipment, educational resources and support mechanisms for the
teachers; ii) focus action on the groups at greatest educational risk; iii) promote effective
pedagogical decentralization, creating spaces for teachers' decision making; iv) strengthen the
capacity of the Ministry of Education to provide orientation and technical support to schools.
1.6. In order to achieve the aforementioned goals, the project's implementation strategy
combined three mechanisms geared towards producing a dynamic of incremental change at the
school level: i) classic mechanisms of centralized intervention, conceived as an injection of
resources and ideas into the schools ('push'; from 'top to bottom'); two types of decentralized
mechanisms: ii) incentives for the generation and implementation of grass roots improvement
initiatives ('pull'; 'from bottom to top'); iii) various types of institutional and professional
networks for supporting the schools ('redes').
1.7. Moreover, the implementation design and strategies incorporated the flexibility necessary
for taking advantage of the lessons that the project execution itself was producing. Thus, three
major changes were made with respect to the original design, adding value to the project's
impact in its entirety: i) a type of teacher-training program was discontinued after proving
impossible to implement within the first two years, resulting in a transfer of resources to a
successful sub-component, that of computer education applications for primary education
("Programa Enlaces"); ii) a sub-component focused on 10% of the primary schools most at risk
3



was included in the project (The 900 Schools Program); iii) the aforementioned "Programa
Enlaces" was dramatically expanded to the national level (2,242 schools equipped, trained and
on-line in December 1998) after the pilot project objectives (100 schools in 1997) were fulfilled
3 years ahead of schedule.
1.8. The project, given its breadth and complexity, implied the necessity to establish operational
capacities in the public educational sector for the first time that were substantially greater than
those traditionally provided by the Ministry of Education. In this regard, the project involved the
following principal innovations: i) administration of central programs, executed within a
decentralized institutional framework in which the schools, as well as agencies outside the
Ministry of Education played a decisive role; ii) execution of complex, pluri annual projects by a
matrix organization that successfully integrated leadership and educational expertise with
management abilities (programming and effective financial control of administrative and legal
operations).
1.9. Related to institutional knowledge acquired from the operational experience of MECE, the
following items stand out as being the most important:
i)    a common basis of procedures and tools for administrative control regarding the
project, the State and World Bank regulations. Appropriate procedures for executing actions
related to large programs, degree of innovation and expeditiousness, having no precedent in the
history of the Ministry of Education;
ii)   ability to externalize the design and execution of products and processes, thereby
implying criteria and capabilities of convocation, design of adequate Reference Terms,
evaluation of people and proposals and legal control over the fulfillment of agreements and
contracts;
iii)   ability to organize and execute acquisition processes as determined by demand;
iv)   ability to design and administrate competitive resource funds that serve as
incentives for the involved educational units.
v)   the need for a stronger design in teacher-training intervention;
vi)  the importance of opportunely establishing a policy of project institutionalization
within the formal structures of the Ministry of Education.
2. EVALUATION OF BORROWER'S PERFORMANCE.
Achievement of goals: general
2.1. The project fulfilled all the goals in the Preschool, Primary, and Secondary School
components, amply exceeding the targets originally defined in the SAR. MECE contributed to
improving the learning achievements in basic education and to decreasing the differences in the
social distribution of those achievements, as indicated by comparisons of national educational
evaluations from 1992 to 1997. In the case of preschool education: coverage increased and
strategies were instituted at the national level. These strategies were externally evaluated as
being effective for preschoolers in poor areas due to the participation of mothers and local actors.
4



In the case of secondary education, analytical bases and social and institutional consensus were
established for an integral improvement and reform project at this level (Project MECE Media).
2.2. With regard to the Institutional Strengthening component (6.8% of the total cost), in the sub-
components of improvement of processes, (different from the case of equipment investments,
where the goal achievement was the one defined in the project design), the goal achievement was
less than 100%. This was due, in large part, to the lack of a political definition to intervene in the
Ministry of Education's organization and management, as well as to the conflicts with sectors of
the institution being modernized.
Achievement of goals: specific
2.3. Primary education develoRment in rural areas (MECE/Rural): The program was
implemented in 100% of the rural schools with one, two or three teachers (3,338 schools),
benefiting 28.9% of the total number of rural students. Nearly all of the teachers (85%) and
supervisors were given ongoing training in curricular content and pedagogical methodology at
local reunions (in 'Rural Microcenters' of which the program organized 510). In addition, all of
the students of rural schools received complimentary textbooks in mathematics, language,
natural sciences and social sciences, as well as supplementary educational materials.
2.4. Rural school education in the country was profoundly transformed by the actions of MECE,
as indicated by the external evaluation of this component (Cfr. Universidad Austral de Chile,
Universidad de Playa Ancha de Ciencias de la Educaci6n, Estudio de Evaluaci6n de la Linea
Educaci6n rural del programa MECE, Valdivia, Valparaiso, July 1998). The transforming
impact has three dimensions: i) the appreciation of rural culture as an educational starting point
of primary importance; ii) the break of the isolation of the rural teachers by means of systematic
work with colleagues at the rural microcenter (510 of these centers were established); iii) a
systematic and effective modification of the class work, using working groups, use of "activity
centers," redefining the teacher's role, taking advantage of the physical environment as a
learning tool, and providing teachers and students with relevant texts and methodologies that
redefined the structure of the students' annual progression. The improvements brought about by
the aforementioned changes are eloquently indicated by the educational results determined by
SIMCE in testing measurements of 4th grade students conducted in 1992, 1994, and 1996: in
mathematics, the average number of correct responses (with the maximum being 100) increased
from 51.7 in 1992 to 60.2 in 1996; for Spanish, the same comparison increased from 51.7 to
58.5; for natural sciences, the figures increased from 44.9 to 60.4; for social sciences, the number
of correct responses increased from 50.2 to 59.3.
2.5. Educational Improvement Projects (PME in Spanish): component which instituted in the
Chilean Education system, a mechanism of competitive funding to finance improvement projects
proposed by groups of teachers working in schools. The mechanism created a combination of
top-down and bottom-up dynamics for strengthening the schools. The methodology used proved
successful in stimulating the energy and creativity of teachers and supervisors. A competitive
process was introduced among schools for obtaining funding for projects. At the end of the
project, 4,160 PMEs had been implemented in 3,675 schools, 298 PMEs in schools providing
special education and 430 in rural microcenters, (100% of the objective). This benefited
5



1,660,000 students, representing 73% of the enrollment in primary education. This innovation
translated to: i) a measurable impact in educational results, improving the SIMCE scores in
schools that had PMEs; these improvements were better in 4th grade than in 8th, and in Spanish
more than in Mathematics, which was consistent with the priorities of the majority of the projects
(62% of them emphasized the mother tongue) (External evaluation results: Pontificia
Universidad Cat6lica de Chile, Facultad de Educaci6n, Evaluaci6n de la Linea de proyectos de
mejoramiento educativo (PME) del programa MECE, Santiago, August 1998); ii) additionally,
the aforementioned external evaluation confirmed great changes to the organizational culture of
the schools with regards to the system of interpersonal relationships between teachers and
between teachers and students; iii) lastly, the Ministry and the educational sector acquired stable
capacity for organization, evaluation, financing and monitoring of a large annual number of
improvement projects produced, evaluated and executed in decentralized fashion.
2.6. ENLACES Network: "Enlaces" was initially conceived, and thus was established in the
SAR, as a pilot experience that had the purpose of creating a telecommunications and computer
network in 100 basic schools by 1997. "Enlaces" fulfilled its goals two years ahead of schedule
and its impact compelled the government to expand its application to the entire system,
proposing the global goal that 50% of the primary schools (85% of enrollment) and 100% of the
secondary establishments be provided with equipment and operating in the network by the year
2000. At the completion of project MECE, 1,230 primary schools and 470 schools at the
secondary level were in the network with the support of 30 universities.
"Enlaces" was successful in establishing: i) that the focus of the project was to include
the school, along with its teachers and students, in a broad communications network, which
would decisively contributed to enriching the routines of educational tasks by means of
communications facilitated by technology; ii) that such a communications network, as well as the
schools' introduction to the network, involved at its core a university and its support resources to
aid the school in using and absorbing the new media; iii) that there would be no educationally
powerful usage for the new media unless it involved teachers who were willing to embrace the
technology; iv) that there would be no rapid nor educationally efficient way to introduce students
to new technology, especially those living in poverty, unless it was user-friendly: simple to use
and evocative of that which was within the realm of the students' experience.
"Enlaces" has had a national impact beyond the field of education; in 1998, the main
telecommunications industry in Chile donated 6,500 telephone lines for the educational use of
the Internet by means of an agreement with the Ministry of Education, thereby defining an
extraordinary horizon of possibilities in educational information systems for 85% of the
subsidized primary enrollment and 100% of the subsidized secondary enrollment in the country.
2.7. Textbooks and Libraries: All children from the 1st through 4th grades received 3 textbooks,
while students in the 5th through 8th grades received 5 textbooks for each year of the project.
Moreover, classroom libraries were installed in all of the rooms in the subsidized system from
the lSt through 4th grades, (33,606 libraries each with 40 to 60 books). In these two items,
Textbooks and Libraries, the project achieved 100% coverage. The successful purchase of
textbooks and educational materials, reflected in the low costs obtained during the acquisition
6



process, allowed for the purchase of didactic resources that were not initially considered part of
the project.
2.8. Infrastructure: the project fulfilled 89% of the established goals for rehabilitating the
schools, (2,232 schools with construction projects rather than the 2,500 planned, due to
underestimation of the required financial resources); 100% of the schools scheduled for aesthetic
improvement for the community were completed; 100% of the intended preschool classroom
construction was carried out. It should be reiterated that the entirety of the construction projects
included in this component were conceived with the participation of teachers and following
criteria contributing to the quality of learning.
2.9. Expansion of coverage and increase in the quality of preschool education: the project proved
effective in terms of costs for expanding the coverage of preschool education: from 21% of the
children, 0 to 6 years of age, in 1990 to 29.6% in 1996. In both urban and rural sectors; this
increase was also flexible, adapted to the characteristics of each environment. In the formal
sector, the expansion of capacity of institutions, such as JUNJI and INTEGRA, and of
classrooms annexed to municipal schools was financed. In rural areas, coverage expansion
(15.3% of children between 0 to 6 years of age in 1996) was complemented by the "Know your
Child Program", focused on training mothers. The program has been transferred to the
municipalities in order to ensure its sustainability. The external evaluation of the program
verified that is was more successful in improving the social and emotional development of
children than in significantly impacting cognitive development. (Cfr. Centro de Estudios de
Desarrollo y Estimulaci6n Psicosocial CEDEP, Evaluacion del Impacto de la educacion
parvularia sobre los ninos. Informe final. Santiago, July 1997).
2.10. Special Education: The program covered 1.65% of primary school students, improving the
quality of the educational system through positive discrimination, and focusing on the
improvement of teachers' abilities to prevent and identify disabilities, providing training in
educational strategies for solving these problems. Part of the resources of the PME component
was allocated to special education school projects.
2.11. School health: this project component created a sustainable mechanism for protecting the
health of all primary school children, thereby improving their learning possibilities. The
objective of the coverage was substantially surpassed (from 920,000 initially proposed students,
1,862,751 were ultimately covered). This increase in coverage during the life of the project
resulted in coverage for all children enrolled in subsidized schools from the 1st through 7h
grades. On the other hand, the teacher-training program to identify students with health problems
proved to be a very cost-efficient mechanism for achieving the objective.
2.12. Institutional Development in the MINEDUC and the Municipalities: This was the only
component that did not fulfill 100% of the goals, because these were significantly affected by
political decisions regarding the organization and means of administration at the central, regional
and provincial offices of MINEDUC. This fact became more relevant with respect to the
municipal administration of education, where the project achievements did not surpass the
experimental level in a small number of municipalities. The project concentrated on the process
of educational decentralization, delivering equipment and information systems and reinforcing
7



institutional capacity through personnel training at the central and regional levels of the Ministry
of Education and of the municipalities.
2.13. Secondary Education: thirteen studies were financed as part of this project, constituting the
analytical basis for the secondary education reform in the country. Furthermore, a broad
coverage consultation process was organized (more than 30,000 people) that produced more than
3,000 reports from  educational groups and representatives, processed by the project.
Additionally, an international seminar and a study tour to Asian-Pacific countries were
organized. These activities contributed to refining the proposal basis for refonning secondary
education. This resulted in a complete quality and equity improvement program in secondary
education (MECE-Media) and a curriculum reform at this level, which began in 1996.
2.14. Within the framework of a markedly successful project, the following constitute two of the
most significant failures: i) lack of coordination in the arrival of the various components to the
schools, resulting in a loss of synergies included in the implementation plan; ii) discontinuation
of the teacher-training program on course subjects.
2.15. During 1997, which was the last year of implementation, the project completed its
institutionalization process within the Ministry. The 1999 national budget financed all of the
programs generated by the project, with objectives exceeding those proposed by the project for
1997.
3. EVALUATION OF THE WORLD BANK'S PERFORMANCE
3.1. The performance of the World Bank throughout the processes of design, negotiation and
supervision of the execution of the MECE project was highly satisfactory. Its contributions to the
project are indicated as follows:
i) Significant contribution during the design phase, where the substantial expertise and
procedures of its professionals and of the institution provided decisive support to a highly
qualified national team, lacking operational experience in public matters; also, substantial
contribution of Bank specialists during specific missions regarding financial and administrative
matters.
ii) Significant contribution during execution, through bi-annual supervision missions that
stood out for their precision, coverage and depth. The project took advantage of each of these
missions and made use of the Aide Memoire documents as strong project guide and control
instruments. The supervision missions provided methodological discipline of great value to the
implementation team.
iii) Global political support to the general effort for change in the education sector, by
contributing to the project definition as part of a national policy, removed from partisan or
corporate pressure, according to its reputation for high technical competence and neutrality.
8



iv) Support through the exchange of experiences and the creative exchange with other
countries, through participation in seminars and study tour.
3.2. Throughout the design and implementation process, the Bank demonstrated a great
commitment to Chilean educational policy and flexibility to adapt itself to its definitions. For
example: regarding initial questioning about accepting a secondary education component, and
likewise with respect to the PME and "Enlaces", that were initially questioned.
3.3. Within the highly satisfactory framework described herein, the fundamental limitation was
experienced in relation to the procedures for acquisition of goods and Bank consulting contracts.
These procedures, created for investments in infrastructure or similar ventures, were not adapted
in many cases to project requirements. The most outstanding cases were: the procurement for
classroom libraries, for the university that would host Enlaces and the acquisition of goods and
consulting contracts by the schools granted PMEs. In all of these cases, solutions were created
that demanded flexibility, imagination and patience on both parts, at some costs in terms of
action delays.
3.4. The high appraisal of the performance of the Bank in the MECE-Basica project compelled
the Chilean Ministry of Education to request technical support in the formulation and supervision
for project execution of the MECE-Media project, with greater resources, complexity and
proposals changes than the initial project.
9



IBRD 25555
E R U                          A                                                                                                                                                         c
pamaot;              <
>
LLI
p
<
ipa                                                                                                                 P01HAI
Oui                                                                                                                                                                j U.
R                                                                                                                                                  46'
It.
B
3
34'
21
"N ROADS
RAILWAYS
c                                                                                                                                                                               -SAV- CONTOURS (10)0 iw-k)
22'-                                                                                                                                        RIVERS
--7,  SALINE LAKES
ICE FIELDS
MINES
36-                                                              INTERNATIONAL AIRPORTS
C.,I-                                                                                                PORTS THROU
EXCEDING
PER YEAR
NATIONAI CA
0    REGION CAPIT
Anto                                                                                                                                                                                 PROVINCE BO
REGION BOY
I V REGION NUA
38'
INTERNATIONA
2e-
j             z
Q5                 Lu                                                                                                                         Mu
IMA
Valdivia                                                                              --v    R
LLI
p                                                                                                                                                                                              Ti
mm,
UBS
42-
Th b-d-i,, -1-, d-.i-ti-
zy,
Th. ",.,Id                         30,
-y
b-d-i-
7T                       6.8.
EBRUARY 199A



