                     PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID)
                              APPRAISAL STAGE
                                                                                 April 24, 2014
                                                                            Report No.: AB7555

 Operation Name                    Enhanced Fiscal and Financial Management for Greater
                                   Opportunities Development Policy Loan
 Region                            Latin America and Caribbean
 Country                           Guatemala
 Sector                            Central government administration sector (100%).
 Operation ID                      P133738
 Lending Instrument                Development Policy Lending
 Borrower(s)                       Republic of Guatemala
 Implementing Agency               Ministry of Public Finance
                                   Government of Guatemala
                                   8va Avenida 20-65, Zona 1
                                   Centro Civico, Nivel 15
                                   Ciudad de Guatemala, Guatemala
 Date PID Prepared                 April 24, 2014
 Estimated Date of Appraisal       April 24, 2014
 Estimated Date of Board           June 4, 2014
 Approval
 Corporate Review Decision         April 18, 2014


       Key Development Issues and Rationale for Bank Involvement
Guatemala is the largest economy in Central America and its economic performance has
been relatively stable compared to the rest of the Latin America and the Caribbean (LAC)
region, a result of prudent macroeconomic policies. Guatemala’s GDP is about US$53 billion
(2013) and its per-capita gross national income (GNI) is US$4,880 (2012). It has a multiethnic
population of about 15 million. Between 2001 and 2013 annual GDP growth averaged 3.3
percent (the LAC average was 3.4 percent), and less volatile than the region. Democratic
institutions have been consolidating following a 36-year civil war that ended in 1996. Despite
progress, however, persistent economic and social challenges have affected the population’s trust
in the Government’s capacity to eradicate poverty and boost shared prosperity.

Sustaining progress in poverty reduction is an ongoing challenge. Guatemala reduced its
poverty headcount rate between 2000 and 2006 from 56.2 percent to 51 percent according to
national estimates. Extreme poverty decreased modestly from 15.7 percent to 15.2 percent over
the same period. However, in the wake of the global financial crisis, poverty rates increased. The
latest household survey indicates that the poverty rate increased from 51 percent in 2006 to 53.7
percent in 2011, although extreme poverty did decrease during this period from 15.2 percent to
13.3 percent. Geographically, poverty is disproportionately concentrated in rural areas and
amongst the indigenous population. Despite marginal increases in poverty, inequality improved


                                                                                                1
slightly between 2006 and 2011, explained by modest reduction in extreme poverty and
improvements in the middle class income.

Shared prosperity has worsened in recent years and social indicators remain weak
compared to other middle-income countries. Guatemala was the only country in LAC for
which the income growth rate of the bottom 40 percent was negative (-1 percent) during 2000-
2011. However, the country has achieved some progress during the last decade on social
indicators. Rates of primary school enrollment (general population and for girls) increased by 12
and 15 percentage points, respectively, during 2000-2010. During the same period, rates of
childhood mortality declined from 49 to 32 per thousand. Yet, in addition to being modest,
coverage of basic goods and services is often unequal, which limits the set of economic
opportunities, particularly for the most vulnerable. This is evidenced by Guatemala’s low Human
Opportunity Index (which measures the degree of equity in the access to basic goods and
services), which is among the lowest in LAC. Despite recent progress in reducing the percentage
of underweight children, Guatemala’s level of chronic malnutrition remains among the worst in
the world, with about half of all the children suffering from malnutrition. The Government plans
to undertake a new household survey in 2014 to overcome data limitations that currently restrict
the ability to evaluate recent progress in poverty reduction and shared prosperity.

The Government has committed itself to an ambitious agenda that aims to address key
development challenges. These include improving social development, accelerating economic
growth, ensuring productive and social infrastructure for development (especially in rural areas),
and strengthening justice and democratic security. The Government has also placed strong
emphasis on promoting transparency and accountability, and reducing crime and violence.

This programmatic DPL series of Enhanced Fiscal and Financial Management for Greater
Opportunities has been supporting this reform program, and the proposed Second DPL is
fully consistent with the objectives of the World Bank Group’s Strategy. This DPL builds on
the progress achieved under the previous operation and complements it by focusing on a limited
set of cross-sectorial policies intended to support a more efficient delivery of quality public
services. In particular, it supports two pillars of the Guatemala Country Partnership Strategy
(CPS) discussed by the Board in September 2012, namely: pillar one (create fiscal space and
improve transparency in the budgeting process), and pillar two (improved results in the social
sector). The proposed operation, in coordination with the efforts of other development partners,
will provide fiscal resources to support the Government’s poverty reduction and shared
prosperity efforts. In addition, to enhance its policy dialogue, the World Bank Group is engaged
in a series of analytical and advisory activities in support of envisaged reforms in this DPL, in
the areas of economic governance, poverty and equity monitoring, and competitiveness.

       Proposed Objective(s)
The Program Development Objective of the DPL series is to support the Government of
Guatemala to (i) strengthen tax administration and tax policy; (ii) strengthen budget management
and increase the results orientation of public spending; and (iii) improve the management and
coordination of social policies.



                                                                                                2
       Preliminary Description
The proposed operation is the second in a series of two single-tranche operations, the first
of which was approved by the World Bank Group Executive Board of Directors in
September 2012. This DPL series is informed by the lessons learned in previous World Bank
operations and supports three policy objectives: (i) strengthening tax administration and tax
policy; (ii) enhancing budget management and increasing the results orientation of public
spending; and (iii) improving the coordination and management of social policy. Measures
focused on mobilizing revenues, raising the efficiency of spending, and improving the
coordination of social policies support the Government’s goal of reducing poverty and promoting
shared prosperity. Enhanced transparency of public resources contributes to the Government’s
goal to foster inclusive growth by improving the country’s image with foreign investors.

       Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects
Poverty and Social Impacts
Government actions supported in this DPL are expected to have positive poverty and social
impacts. Progress has been made in the implementation of key reforms that affect poor and
vulnerable populations in the area of social protection, such as the creation of Zero Hunger
Offices and the creation of the Single Beneficiary Registry which will help ensure that
households receive all benefits for which they are eligible. The introduction of new inter-
ministerial coordination mechanisms are also expected to improve welfare of vulnerable groups.

Reforms related to tax policy and tax administration are expected make the tax system
more progressive, and the impact of the tax reforms is expected to fall mainly on the upper
decile of the income distribution and is unlikely to have a direct impact on the poor and
vulnerable. Simulations using the latest household survey for Guatemala suggest that the direct
impact of the changes in the tax code will likely be felt only among the top income decile. The
tax reform also aims to increase the share of direct taxes, which has the potential of making the
tax system more progressive. Furthermore, enhanced fiscal and financial management, a central
objective of this DPL series, will help the Government to expand economic opportunities for all
citizens. Furthermore, measures aimed at improving the transparency of international taxation
are not expected to directly impact poverty or the distribution of incomes. However, positive
indirect effects could occur, for example, based on an overall increased transparency which
could generate an improved business environment and therefore more employment through
enhanced competitiveness. In addition, positive effects could occur from promoting formal
sector employment, given that in Guatemala workers from low-income households are
disproportionally represented in the informal sector and, in part as a result of that, have lower
earnings (see Annex 4).

Measures related to social protection programs are expected to generate significant,
positive impacts for the poor. The size of this impact depends on the quality of targeting of
these programs. The development of tools to improve the monitoring and evaluation of social
programs, including advances in Results-Based Management and the Single Beneficiary Registry
are important milestones in the promotion of shared prosperity in Guatemala. Analysis using the

                                                                                               3
latest household survey (ENCOVI 2011) as well as the latest National Maternal and Infant
Health Survey (ENSMI 2008-09) suggest potential positive impacts of improving Results-Based
Management. In this regard, evidence from other countries emphasizes the positive impacts of
RBB as a tool to reduce poverty and promote shared prosperity, including: (i) an informed
budget that enhances the transparency and accountability of public resources; and (ii) an
enhanced monitoring and evaluation system, in particular with regards to social programs.

Improving the coordination of social policy is also expected to promote shared prosperity
in Guatemala. Pillar 3 of the proposed DPL aims supports government efforts to tackle infant
malnutrition and maternal mortality in geographic areas with high malnutrition rates and improve
the monitoring and evaluation framework and the unique registry of beneficiaries. Indeed, the
implementation of the Zero Hunger Plan through the COMUSANES and the creation of the
Single Beneficiary Registry which will help ensure that households receive all benefits for which
they are eligible. The introduction of new inter-ministerial coordination mechanisms are also
expected to improve welfare of vulnerable groups. A better targeted social program is expected
to be more progressive as it will help ensure that the resources will be channeled to those in most
need and expected to benefit the most from public social expenditures. Indeed, the use of the
recently completed Poverty Maps (2006, total; 2011, rural) could help substantially to increase
the effectiveness of targeting mechanisms. Similarly, focusing the budget on results according to
social needs greatly improves its progressive nature.


Environmental Aspects
The measures supported under the proposed DPL are not likely to have significant effects
on the environment, forests or other natural resources. The increase in the taxes on motor
vehicles (prior action 1) is unlikely to have a negative significant impact on emissions and air
pollution since the taxes are paid as a lump sum annually and are not on a per use basis thereby
providing limited incentives to have an effect on the use of vehicles. Policy actions in the areas
of tax administration, public expenditure and social policy are not likely to have either
significant positive or negative environmental impacts.


       Tentative Financing

Source:                                                                            ($million)
Borrower                                                                                0
International Development Association                                                 340

                                                                      Total           340




                                                                                                 4
      Contact Point

World Bank
Contact:     Marco Antonio Hernandez
Title:       Senior Economist
Tel:         (202) 473-6802
Email:       marcohernandez@worldbank.org

Borrower
Contact:     Mr. Fredy Gomez
Title:       Director of Public Credit, Ministry of Public Finance
Tel:         +502 2322 9160
Email:       fgomez@minfin.gob.gt

      For more information contact:

The Info Shop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-4500
Fax: (202) 522-1500
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop




                                                                     5
