                     PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID)
                               CONCEPT STAGE
                                                                                  March 13, 2014
                                                                              Report No.: AB7554

 Operation Name                    Fiscal Space for Greater Opportunities Second Programmatic
                                   Development Policy Loan
 Region                            Latin America and Caribbean
 Country                           Guatemala
 Sector                            Central government administration sector (100%).
 Operation ID                      P133738
 Lending Instrument                Development Policy Lending
 Borrower(s)                       Republic of Guatemala
 Implementing Agency               Ministry of Public Finance
                                   Government of Guatemala
                                   8va Avenida 20-65, Zona 1
                                   Centro Civico, Nivel 15
                                   Ciudad de Guatemala, Guatemala
 Date PID Prepared                 March 13, 2014
 Estimated Date of Appraisal       April 25, 2014
 Estimated Date of Board           June 12, 2014
 Approval


       Key Development Issues and Rationale for Bank Involvement

Guatemala is the largest economy in Central America and its economic performance has
been relatively stable compared to the rest of the Latin America and the Caribbean (LAC)
region, a result of prudent macroeconomic policies. Guatemala’s GDP is about US$53 billion
(2013) and its per-capita gross national income (GNI) is US$4,880 (2012). It has a multiethnic
population of about 15 million. Between 2001 and 2013 annual GDP growth averaged 3.3
percent (the LAC average was 3.4 percent), and less volatile than the region. Democratic
institutions have been consolidating following a 36-year civil war that ended in 1996. Despite
progress, however, persistent economic and social challenges have affected the population’s trust
in the Government’s capacity to eradicate poverty and boost shared prosperity.

Guatemala has made modest progress in poverty reduction since 2000. Guatemala reduced
its poverty headcount rate between 2000 and 2006 from 56.2 percent to 51 percent according to
national estimates. Extreme poverty decreased from 15.7 percent in 2000 to 15.2 percent in 2006.
In the wake of the global financial crisis, poverty rates increased. The latest household survey
indicates that the poverty rate increased from 51 percent in 2006 to 53.7 percent in 2011,
although extreme poverty did decrease during this period from 15.2 in 2006 to 13.3 in 2011.
Poverty is disproportionately concentrated in rural areas and amongst the indigenous population.
Despite marginal increases in poverty, inequality improved slightly between 2006 and 2011,
explained by modest reduction in extreme poverty and improvements in the middle class income.


                                                                                               1
Since 2000 shared prosperity worsened as Guatemala was the only country in LAC for
which the income growth rate of the bottom 40 percent was negative (-1 percent) during
2000-2011; meanwhile, social indicators remain weak compared to other middle-income
countries. The country has achieved some progress during the last decade on social indicators.
Rates of primary school enrollment (general population and for girls) increased by 12 and 15
percentage points, respectively, during 2000-2010. In the same period, rates of childhood
mortality declined from 49 to 32 per thousand. Yet, in addition to being modest, coverage to
basic goods and services is often unequal, which limits the set of economic opportunities,
particularly for the most vulnerable. This is evidenced by Guatemala’s low Human Opportunity
Index (which measures how equitable is the access to basic goods and services), which is among
the lowest in LAC. Despite recent progress on reducing underweight in children, Guatemala’s
level of chronic malnutrition remains among the worst in the world, with about half of all the
children suffering from malnutrition. The Government plans to undertake a new household
survey in 2014 to overcome data limitations that currently limit the ability to evaluate recent
progress in poverty reduction and shared prosperity.

The Government has committed itself to an ambitious agenda that aims to address key
development challenges. These include improving social development, accelerating economic
growth, ensuring productive and social infrastructure for development (especially in rural areas),
and strengthening justice and democratic security. The Government has also placed strong
emphasis on promoting transparency and accountability, and reducing crime and violence.

This programmatic DPL series of Fiscal Space for Greater Opportunities has been
supporting this reform program, and the proposed Second DPL is fully consistent with the
objectives of the World Bank Group’s Strategy. This DPL builds on the progress achieved
under the previous operation and complements it by focusing on a limited set of cross-sectorial
policies intended to increase fiscal space and support a more efficient delivery of quality public
services. In particular, it supports two pillars of the Guatemala Country Partnership Strategy
(CPS) discussed by the Board in September 2012, namely: pillar one (create fiscal space and
improve transparency in the budgeting process), and pillar two (improved results in the social
sector). The proposed operation, in coordination with the efforts of other development partners,
will provide fiscal resources to support the Government’s poverty reduction and shared
prosperity efforts. In addition, to enhance its policy dialogue, the World Bank Group is engaged
in a series of analytical and advisory activities in support of envisaged reforms in this DPL, in
the areas of economic governance, poverty and equity monitoring, and competitiveness.

       Proposed Objective(s)
The Program Development Objective of the DPL series is to support the Guatemalan
Government in creating fiscal space and expanding opportunities for the most vulnerable
segments of society.

       Preliminary Description
The proposed operation is the second in a series of two single-tranche operations, the first
of which was approved by the World Bank Group Executive Board of Directors in
September 2012. This DPL series is informed by the lessons learned in previous World Bank

                                                                                                2
operations and supports three policy objectives: (i) strengthening tax administration and tax
policy; (ii) enhancing budget management and increasing the results orientation of public
spending; and (iii) improving the coordination and management of social policy. Measures
focused on mobilizing revenues, raising the efficiency of spending, and improving the
coordination of social policies support the Government’s goal of reducing poverty and promoting
shared prosperity. Enhanced transparency of public resources contributes to the Government’s
goal to foster growth by improving the country’s image with foreign investors.

       Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects
Poverty and Social Impacts
Government actions supported in this DPL are expected to have positive poverty and social
impacts. The analysis carried out on the potential impacts of the reforms supported under DPL1
showed a positive or neutral impact for each of the reforms. Progress has been made in the
implementation of key reforms that affect poor and vulnerable populations in the area of social
protection, such as the creation of Zero Hunger Offices and the creation of the Single Beneficiary
Registry which will help ensure that households receive all benefits for which they are eligible.
The introduction of new inter-ministerial coordination mechanisms are also expected to improve
welfare of vulnerable groups.

The tax system is expected to become more progressive as a result of the tax reform, and
the impact of the tax reforms is expected to fall mainly on the upper decile of the income
distribution and is unlikely to have a direct impact on the poor and vulnerable. The analysis
carried out on the impact of the tax reform under DPL1 confirmed that the direct impact of the
changes in the tax code will likely be felt only among the top income decile. The tax reform also
aims to increase the share of direct taxes, which has the potential of making the tax system more
progressive. Furthermore, additional fiscal space, a central objective of this DPL series, will give
the Government the resources to deliver a more ambitious social contact and expand economic
opportunities for all citizens.

Tax information sharing and the procurement reform are not expected to directly impact
poverty or the distribution of incomes. However, indirect effects could occur, for example,
based on an overall increased transparency which could generate an improved business
environment and therefore more employment through enhanced competitiveness.

Measures related to social protection programs are expected to generate significant,
positive impacts for the poor. The size of this impact depends on the quality of targeting of
these programs. The development of tools to improve the monitoring and evaluation of social
programs, including advances in Results-Based Management and the Single Beneficiary Registry
are important milestones in the promotion of shared prosperity in Guatemala. Analysis
conducted under DPL1 using the latest household survey (ENCOVI 2011) as well as the latest
National Maternal and Infant Health Survey (ENSMI 2008-09) noted the potential positive
impacts of improving Results-Based Management. In this regard, evidence from other countries
emphasizes the positive impacts of RBM as a tool to reduce poverty and promote shared
prosperity, including: (i) an informed budget that enhances the transparency and accountability


                                                                                                  3
of public resources; and (ii) an enhanced monitoring and evaluation system, in particular with
regards to social programs.

Improving the coordination of social policy is also expected to promote shared prosperity
in Guatemala. Pillar 3 of the proposed DPL aims supports government efforts to tackle infant
malnutrition and maternal mortality in geographic areas with high malnutrition rates and improve
the monitoring and evaluation framework and the unique registry of beneficiaries. A better
targeted social program is expected to be more progressive as it will help ensure that the
resources will be channeled to those in most need and expected to benefit the most from public
social expenditures. Indeed, the use of the recently completed Poverty Maps (2006, total; 2011,
rural) could help substantially to increase the effectiveness of targeting mechanisms. Similarly,
focusing the budget on results according to social needs greatly improves its progressive nature.


Environmental Aspects
The measures supported under the proposed DPL are not likely to have significant effects
on the environment, forests or other natural resources. The increase in the taxes on motor
vehicles (prior action 1) is unlikely to have a negative significant impact on emissions and air
pollution since the taxes are paid as a lump sum annually and are not on a per use basis thereby
providing limited incentives to have an effect on the use of vehicles. Policy actions in the areas
of tax administration, public expenditure and social policy are not likely to have either
significant positive or negative environmental impacts.


       Tentative Financing

Source:                                                                           ($million)
Borrower                                                                               0
International Development Association                                                340

                                                                      Total          340




                                                                                                4
      Contact Point

World Bank
Contact:     Marco Antonio Hernandez
Title:       Senior Economist
Tel:         (202) 473-6802
Email:       marcohernandez@worldbank.org

Borrower
Contact:     Mr. Fredy Gomez
Title:       Director of Public Credit, Ministry of Public Finance
Tel:         +502 2322 9160
Email:       fgomez@minfin.gob.gt

      For more information contact:

The Info Shop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-4500
Fax: (202) 522-1500
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop




                                                                     5
