      Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                 Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
      CAPSAP (P099924)



                                                                                                                    Report Number : ICRR0020161


1. Project Data



 Project ID                                              Project Name
 P099924                                                 CAPSAP

 Country                                                 Practice Area(Lead)
 Azerbaijan                                              Governance



  L/C/TF Number(s)                                       Closing Date (Original)                                        Total Project Cost (USD)
  IDA-44050,TF-57849,TF-98323                            31-Dec-2012                                                                 24,000,000.00

  Bank Approval Date                                     Closing Date (Actual)
  27-Mar-2008                                            30-Jun-2015

                                                                IBRD/IDA (USD)                                                     Grants (USD)

  Original Commitment                                              11,000,000.00                                                    4,865,000.00

  Revised Commitment                                               11,000,000.00                                                    4,847,561.57

  Actual                                                           10,567,744.80                                                    4,847,561.57




 Sector(s)
 General finance sector(74%):Central government administration(19%):General industry and trade sector(7%)

 Theme(s)
 International financial standards and systems(50%):Corporate governance(25%):Public expenditure, financial management and
 procurement(25%)

 Prepared by                          Reviewed by                          ICR Review Coordinator               Group
 Jose M. Rodriguez Alvarez            Clay Wescott                         Lourdes N. Pagaran                   IEGEC (Unit 1)




2. Project Objectives and Components


a. Objectives
    According to the Financing Agreement (p. 5) the Project Development Objective (PDO) was “to strengthen accountability and transparency in
    financial reporting for the public and corporate sectors in line with international best practices, and to support institutional strengthening to
    sustain reforms”.
          Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                             Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
          CAPSAP (P099924)




b. Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
     No



c.   Components


      The project originally comprised four components, two of which were revised in the first restructuring in 09/23/2011 and three in the
      11/19/2013 second restructuring.

      The original components were the following:

      Component 1: Corporate Sector Accountability, costing US$4.57m at appraisal, US$0.25m at completion, including:
      (1.1) Assist Public Interest Entities (PIEs) in embedding International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), in compliance with the
      Accounting Law;
      (1.2) Establishing appropriate legal and institutional frameworks and capacity for translation, adoption and enforcement of IFRS and
      National Accounting Standards for Commercial Organizations (NASCO); and
      (1.3) Improve statutory framework and building capacity to regulate and oversee the audit function

      Component 2: Public Sector Accountability, costing US$3.64m at appraisal, US$12.92m at completion.
      This component aimed to enhance public sector accountability through the implementation of the government’s public sector
      accounting reform strategy, in part by implementing the section of the 2004 Accounting Law requiring budgetary organizations and off-
      budget state funds to prepare financial statements in accordance with National Accounting Standards for Budgetary Organizations,
      (NASBOs) based on International Public Sector Accounting Standards (IPSAS).

      Component 3: Strengthening accounting, auditing and financial management capacity, costing US$10.58m at appraisal and
      US$5.56m at completion. This component aimed to build long-term capacity in accounting, auditing and financial management, bringing
      both corporate and public sector compliance into alignment with accounting and auditing standards.

      Component 4: Project Management, costing US$0.76m at appraisal, US$1.39m at completion.
      This was to provide support to the government to implement the project through a Project Management Unit (PMU) at the Ministry of
      Finance (MOF).

      The first restructuring (09/23/2011) and the second restructuring (11/19/2013) included the following changes in components 1, 2 and 3:

      Component 1: Corporate Sector Accountability.
      Under the first restructuring, sub-component 1.3 on “Improving the statutory framework and building capacity to regulate and oversee
      the audit function,” was cancelled. The activities to support the Chamber of Auditors of Azerbaijan (CoAA) were also cancelled to focus
      instead on establishing an agency within the MOF to regulate the audit profession. Under the second restructuring, the transfer of the
      audit oversight from the profession to MOF was cancelled.

      Three sub components were revised in the second restructuring in November 2013 as follows:
      - Cancellation of sub-component 1.1 on “Assisting the Public Interest Entities (PIEs) in embedding IFRS”
      based on the government’s request and decision to finance directly the envisioned activities.
      - Modification of sub-component 1.2 and 1.3 to reflect emphasis on the establishment of the Association of Professional Accountants of
      Azerbaijan (APAA). This would enable APAA to develop appropriate legal and institutional frameworks and capacity for translation,
      adoption and enforcement of IFRS and NASCOs.

      Component 2: Public Sector Accountability.
      Under the first restructuring, a new sub-component 2.3 for “Unified automated accounting system for line ministries and budgetary
      organizations” was added to support the implementation of the NASBOs and help the government to achieve effective control over
      spending of budget funds, and to generate reliable consolidated financial statements.

      Under the second restructuring, sub-components10 2.1, 2.2 and 2.3 were modified to reflect recent developments in the execution of
      the Chamber of Accounts and the automated accounting software called “Financial and Accountability Reporting Application for
      Budgetary Institutions” (FARABI). Modifications included:
      Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                  Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
      CAPSAP (P099924)




     - Sub-component 2.2, CAPSAP was to continue financing the implementation of the Chamber of Accounts’ Strategic Development Plan
     (SDP), but there were changes in the areas that the Project Appraisal Document (PAD) indicated the SDP would undertake, including
     focusing on four major themes: enhancing financial audit; introducing performance audit; improving legal and standards framework; and
     strengthening human resource practices.
     - Sub-component 2.2, the activities pertaining to the introduction of Public Internal Financial Control (PIFC) in Azerbaijan were dropped,
     since the Government of Azerbaijan (GOA) was expected to develop an Internal Financial Control Framework outside the CAPSAP.
     - Sub-component 2.1 and 2.3, the establishment of a Maintenance and Support Centre for FARABI was added to ensure due
     maintenance and technical support of the system.

     Component 3: Strengthening accounting, auditing and financial management capacity
     Under the second restructuring, revisions were made to bring the PAD language more in line with the direction the project had taken
     since the first restructuring.
     - The original PAD activity of “financial assistance, in the form of part-payment or subsidies of the costs of professional qualifications in
     accounting and auditing will be provided to successive staff of public and private sector accountants to encourage the retooling
     program” was cancelled, with new emphasis placed on institutionalizing and accrediting the National Accounting Qualification Program.
     The “establishment of an international advisory panel of experts in accounting and auditing,” which was envisaged in the original
     project design, was deleted. The APAA was to establish structures responsible for the activities initially envisaged for the international
     advisory panel of experts.

     The major reason for the substantial differences between appraised and actual costs for the project’s components are the following:
     Component one (Corporate Sector Accountability): After the first restructuring, activities related to the Chamber of Accounts on
     improving the statutory framework and building capacity to regulate and oversee the audit function under sub-component 1.3 were
     cancelled. In addition, under the second restructuring, sub-component 1.1 on assisting the PIEs in embedding IFRS was also
     cancelled. These led to a significant drop in the expenditure under component one although the establishment of the Association of
     Risk Professional Accountants of Azerbaijan (ARPA) was added under the component.

     Component two (Public Sector Accountability): After the first restructuring, a new sub-component 2.3 was added on unified
     automated accounting system for line ministries and budgetary organizations (FARABI). Under the second restructuring, the
     establishment of a maintenance and support center for FARABI was added to subcomponent 2.3. This significantly increased the cost
     of the component.




d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates
    Approval was 03/27/2008, effectiveness was 12/19/2008, the mid-term review was 06/10/2012, and the closing date was 30/06/2015.

    Initial project implementation delays as well as modifications to project components that required time to implement resulted in two
    project extensions. The first restructuring, approved 09/23/2011 extended the project’s closing date for 12 months from December 31,
    2012 to December 31, 2013. The second restructuring, approved 11/19/2013, extended the closing date by 18 months to June 30, 2015
    for the International Development Association (IDA) (Credit 44050) and Japan PHRD (TF 57849), while the Swiss Government/State
    Secretariat for Economic Affairs (SECO) (TF 98323) was extended by 12 months to December 31, 2014, as the parent Trust Fund was
    due to close by June 30, 2015. The second restructuring also increased the IDA credit from 60% to 100%.

    The appraised cost was US$ 24m. IDA provided US$11million of the estimated total project cost at the appraisal, US$10.56 million,
    actual. Co-financing came from Japan Policy and Human Resource Development (PHRD) (TF-57849), US$3m at appraisal, the same
    amount actual; and a SECO Grant (TF-98323) US$1,86m at appraisal, US$1,85m actual. The SECO Grant TF 98323 was not signed
    until June 14, 2011, delaying the implementation of sub-component 2.2 on external audit reforms with the Chamber of Accounts.

    The Government of Azerbaijan committed to fund US$8 million, but disbursed only US$7.15m by the project’s end. The Government ICR
    notes that the balance of US$845,042.12 is attributable to US$644,437.70 related to exchange rate losses as well as US$200,604.42
    that was on the project bank account but fully committed to be utilized under the project.




3. Relevance of Objectives & Design
               Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                             Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
               CAPSAP (P099924)




   a. Relevance of Objectives

       CAPSAP was an important component of the World Bank Group’s Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) for 2007 to 2010. In particular, the first
       pillar of the CPS aims to strengthen financial management and procurement systems, and establish proper public sector and corporate
       governance, accounting and auditing frameworks.

       The project directly contributed to the first of the CPS objectives through: (i) strengthening financial management; and (ii) proper corporate
       governance, accounting and auditing, and indirectly support the other three objectives through its impact on key public institutions and private
       actors. Transparency and accountability in financial reporting were essential for enhancing the management of public funds.
       The project’s PDO is also highly relevant to the 2016-2020 Country Partnership Framework (CPF), which supports the priorities in Azerbaijan’s
       Vision 2020. The CPF states that the governance agenda will be supported in the CPF program by enhancing transparency and accountability
       in public sector management and service delivery, strengthening the rule of law, promoting financial inclusion, and creating a level playing field
       for businesses. Furthermore, one of its priority lines of action, within the objective of an effective fiscal management, is the strengthening the
       structures of governance by building credible and accountable institutions, with the capacity to enforce fiscal rules and a medium term fiscal
       framework while planning for sustainability.

       With respect to the government program, the project aimed to support the GOA’s implementation of the 2004 Accounting Law, which
       mandated the use of accounting standards based on international best practices. The GOA is committed to continue implementing the
       activities that will strengthen public and corporate sector accountability and transparency, bringing them in line with international best
       practices. For example, the President of Azerbaijan has endorsed the rollout of FARABI as one of MOF’s key reforms, aiming to improve
       internal control systems and ensure ministries and budget organizations produce financial statements that comply with IPSAS. The MOF’s
       strong focus on the education of accountants in Azerbaijani will strengthen the accounting skills of the public sector civil servants and provide
       affordable training of professional accountancy courses for the corporate sector.




       Rating
       High


   b. Relevance of Design

       The project design clearly stated the PDO, and the results framework provides a clear causal chain between Bank financing and the expected
       outcomes. The significant changes in the three components during the two restructurings affected the results framework; while it remained
       relevant and there were some additional improvements in the design, the scaling back of component 1 weakened the results chain. This
       component was reduced after the second restructuring to a single subcomponent related to the establishment of Association of Professional
       Accountants of Azerbaijan (ARPA). Moreover, ARPA would find a better emplacement in Component 3 (Strengthening accounting, auditing and
       financial management capacity).

       The investment lending instrument was appropriate for a project designed to assist the borrower in strengthening accountability and
       transparency in financial reporting for public and corporate sectors in line with international best practices, and to support institutional
       strengthening to sustain reforms. In principle, support to the Government could be provided through policy-based lending; however, taking into
       account the weak institutional capacity and the current level of success of Government reform efforts in the sector, an investment lending
       operation with targeted capacity building activities was finally considered more appropriate.

       In summary, the relevance of the design is in the low side of substantial.




       Rating
       Substantial




   4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy)
PHREVISEDTBL
               Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                              Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
               CAPSAP (P099924)




    Objective 1

    Objective
     The PDO comprises two objectives: (i) Strengthen accountability and transparency in financial reporting for the public sector in line with
     international best practices; and (ii) Strengthen accountability and transparency in financial reporting for the corporate sector in line with
     international best practices. The PDO also refers to supporting institutional strengthening to sustain reforms. This is a more general, cross-
     cutting objective that could be included in the two mentioned ones, since the different components of the project and their activities are in
     general oriented to the institutional strengthening of both the public sector and the corporate one.

     Objective 1: Strengthen accountability and transparency in financial reporting for the public sector in line with international best practices

    Rationale

    Significant results were achieved within this objective. The FARABI system was rolled out to 99 ministries and budget organizations,
    which together covered 40 percent of the total budget expenditure, and the government expects to scale up to additional 900 institutions,
    although this plan has not been implemented so far. The system has gained ownership at both political and technical levels of government,
    as well as the support from the country’s President. Institutions using FARABI produce timely financial statements compliant with IPSAS.
    The 2015 Open Budget Survey confirms that in-year, year-end and audit reports are now publicly made available, where they were not in
    2008. Also the 2012-2014 Strategic Development Plan (SDP) of the Chamber of Commerce has been met in all its items, including
    improving financial audits; introduction of performance audit capabilities; enhancement of legal and standards framework; and upgrading of
    the human resource and training systems. A number of NASBOs close to the target established in the project were translated into
    Azerbaijani. The advancements were also significant in training, with 4,838 students trained by the Financial Science and Training Center
    (FSTC); three accredited training programs were implemented, focused on the public sector that will strengthen accountability and
    transparency in public sector; 36 trainers were accredited; and 1 new accounting and audit textbook was produced.

    On the downside, there is a relevant shortcoming, because the Chamber of Accounts (CoA) did not audit any budget expenditure using the
    new methodology since the financial and performance audits depend on the CoA revised draft law, not passed by the Parliament yet. The
    CoA only carried out two pilot audits to develop its capacity, but these documents have not official recognition.

    To summarize, there are important advances in the implementation of integrated financial management system, in the Strategic
    Development Plan of the CoA, and in training activities, and despite the mentioned shortcoming, the efficacy of this objective can be rated
    as substantial.




    Rating
    Substantial

PHREVISEDTBL



    Objective 2

    Objective
     Objective 2. Strengthen accountability and transparency in financial reporting for the corporate sector in line with international best
     practices

    Rationale
    With respect to this objective, the initial Component 1, specifically related to the Corporate Sector, was reduced after the two restructurings
    of the project and, finally, one single subcomponent remained. This subcomponent included the establishment and the capacity building of
    an Association of Professional Accountants of Azerbaijan, finally called “Accounting and Risk Professionals Association” (ARPA), that
    should become a member of the International Federation of Accountants (IFAC) to guarantee the accountability and transparency in
    financial reporting for the corporate sector in line with international best practice. According to the second restructuring, the Association
    should be a self-regulating body that is responsible for ensuring operational and ethical quality in the industry, and this change should
    “reflect the emphasis the project has placed recently on the establishment of the Association of Professional Accountants of Azerbaijan”,
    and “the achievement of international accreditation for the National Accounting Qualification, expected to be completed in the first half of
    2014, would make Azerbaijan the first country in the South Caucasus to have a professional accounting qualification program that is
         Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                   Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
         CAPSAP (P099924)



 internationally recognized”. This was also one of the reasons for the extension of the project.
 This association has been created and registered with the Ministry of Justice, but by the closing of the project was not yet a member of
 IFAC because ARPA had complied only with 7 of the 47 actions required by the IFAC’s Self-Assessment Questionnaire, as pointed-out in
 the ICR (page ix).

 On the positive side, there are other activities included in the project with positive inputs in the corporate sector, in particular the translation
 of 41 IFRSs; the training of 137 Accounting staff in the National Accounting Qualification (NAQ), and 3,759 Bookkeepers; the introduction
 of two accredited training programs for NAQ and Bookkeepers; the existence of a number of accredited trainers to teach students to
 comply with corporate sector financial reporting standards; and the publication of ten new books that also will train students to comply with
 IFRS.

 In summary, the efficacy of this objective is modest. Although there are some advances in the activities related to the training to comply
 with corporate sector financial reporting standards, the key professional association that should support the professionals responsible for
 ensuring such standards has not been internationally recognized yet because it has not reach the required standards and only 7 of the 47
 actions required by the IFAC have been complied with.




 Rating
 Modest



5. Efficiency

 A financial and economic analysis was conducted at appraisal, but the assumptions include activities that were cancelled during the two
 restructurings. Furthermore, the cost-benefit analysis of CAPSAP is difficult to quantify, as acknowledged at appraisal.

 The ICR provided an efficiency analysis of the project with respect to training accountants, FARABI, strengthening the Chamber of Accounts
 (CoA), and establishing of the Accounting and Risk Professionals Association of Azerbaijan (ARPA). According the ICR, students previously
 had to travel abroad for training, and the project generated potential cost-savings by training students locally – estimated by the ICR at
 US$15.9 million for 4,843 students due to FSTC’s low fees per course and savings in travel and accommodation costs. Students also
 benefited from training in their native language and avoided uneven training standards. The training activities used the same books as used
 abroad, translated to the national language, and the trainers have been accredited, which means that the training activities achieve the
 required basic standards. However, the ICR did not provide evidence that the quality of the training delivered in the country has the same
 level of quality that the training previously delivered abroad.

 With respect to FARABI, the cost of the software, hardware and installation of FARABI for 99 institutions was US $11 million. These costs are
 modest compared to FMIS in other countries, taking onto account the FARABI’s functionality. Finally, it should be pointed out that there is
 local capacity to support its maintenance.

 On the downside, the project experienced significant delays for a total of 2.75 years, with a slow disbursement flag and was a problem project.
 Project management cost increased as a result of implementation delays. In addition there are outputs that have not been delivered under
 objectives 1 and 2, which suggest inefficient use of project resources.

 In summary, the project supported the provision of in-country training, but there is no evidence on the quality of the training compared to the
 previous situation. The project provided good value for money in implementing FARABI. There was also cost related to the implementation
 delays and outputs not delivered under components 1 and 2. On balance, IEG rates efficiency as modest.




Efficiency Rating
Modest
        Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                               Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
        CAPSAP (P099924)



a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR) and/or Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the re-estimated
   value at evaluation:

                                              Rate Available?             Point value (%)                  *Coverage/Scope (%)

                                                                                                           0
 Appraisal                                                                0
                                                                                                           Not Applicable

                                                                                                           0
 ICR Estimate                                                             0
                                                                                                           Not Applicable

* Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



6. Outcome

Relevance of objective is high and that of design is substantial. The objective was well aligned with Bank and country strategies and relevant
given the country conditions and circumstances. The causal chain between PDO, components and expected outcomes is generally convincing.
Efficacy in the first sub-objective is rated substantial and it is rated modest in the second sub-objective. Main shortcomings are the non-
achievement of international recognition by the professional association that should guarantee the accountability and transparency in financial
reporting for the corporate sector, and the inability of the Chamber of Accounts to officially audit budget expenditures, using new methodology
until the enactment of amendments to the CoA Law, not presented at the Parliament at the moment of the project’s closing. Efficiency is rated
modest.



a.     Outcome Rating
       Moderately Satisfactory



7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating

The risk of MOF not implementing FARABI in about 1,000 ministries and budget organizations is low, since there is funding from central
government and the President of Azerbaijan institutionally supports the project. In order to ensure that MOF improves on the usage of FARABI,
the MOF will create and maintain a user-friendly web portal for continuous training and education. There is also low risk that the accountancy
training will be discontinued, since MOF has committed to funding the functioning costs of FSTC, and revenues from the professional
accountancy course (NAQ) are expected to grow due to the increase in the students’ number. The ICR emphasizes that the only risk is that
students prefer the course to be internationally accredited. There is some risk that ARPA will not become a member of IFAC, since membership
depends on ARPA receiving endorsement from an existing IFAC member in Azerbaijan, which is the CoAA. However, ARPA has recently
established good relations with CoAA, and it is expected that the endorsement will be given. Finally, there is some risk that the CoA will not
perform financial and performance audits according to the new methodology, since CoA audits depend on the final approval of the revised law of
the CoA, which is expected in 2016. But now the MOF has supported and reviewed the draft law, which at the closing of the project was at the
Office of the President for review (ICR, p.22) and its first reading in Parliament is expected in 2016.



a.     Risk to Development Outcome Rating
       Modest


8. Assessment of Bank Performance

a. Quality-at-Entry
     The preparation of the project and appraisal of the operation was facilitated by the Bank team, in order to achieve the planned development
     outcomes. Risks and mitigation measures, implementing entity, and beneficiaries were appropriately identified, and the Bank’s fiduciary
     measures were properly taken into consideration. However, the team could have provided more resources in the initial design to Component
       Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                              Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
       CAPSAP (P099924)



   Two (Public Sector Accountability) for FARABI, a significant activity to improve accountability and transparency, rather than to Component
   One (Corporate Sector Accountability), which aimed to facilitate the implementation of IFRS in three specific SOEs. This is because SOEs
   tend to use their own resources to computerize FMIS, as the same government recognized later. This issue only was addressed during the
   first restructuring in 2011, when FARABI was included as part of the project, and the plan for FMIS in three specific SOEs was dropped
   because the government decided to let SOEs fund the new systems using their own resources.



   Quality-at-Entry Rating
   Moderately Satisfactory


b. Quality of supervision


    Bank supervision took place on a regular basis, and the bank team provided timely and appropriate advice and observations. The aide
    memoires and ISRs provide evidence of the regular and continuous advice given by the Bank’s team. In particular, the Bank responded in a
    timely and adequate manner to the two restructuring requests made by the government, which contributed to the project’s development
    outcome, particularly through the inclusion in the first restructuring of FARABI and its enhancement in the second restructuring. Fiduciary
    policies were well managed. On the downside, the team could have made in the first restructuring a better and more realistic risk analysis
    about the feasibility of a complete international recognition of ARPA before the project closing.




   Quality of Supervision Rating
   Satisfactory

   Overall Bank Performance Rating
   Moderately Satisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance

a. Government Performance
   The Government of Azerbaijan (GOA) supported the project throughout its different phases (preparation, appraisal and implementation).
   When Japan’s PHRD Grant (TF 56724) closed on March 26, 2008, the PMU was disbanded, but MOF made a commitment to fund the
   PMU, and attracted experienced candidates to key project positions, so that the PMU was fully staffed by December 2009.

   The major challenge was when the GOA decided to prioritize an FMIS for the ministries and budget organizations, instead of building
   capacity for three SOEs to comply with IFRS, but at this stage there was a good coordination with the Bank, which also helped to
   synchronize GOA’s new strategy after the first restructuring in September 2011, and thereafter project implementation significantly scaled
   up. In general, during the project there was an adequate coordination of GOA with the Bank and SECO. At project closure, GOA remained
   committed to continue the implementation of project’s objectives and activities, such as the support to the dissemination of FARABI, the
   financing of the training activities, and support to ARPA and the new draft law for the CoA.

   The stakeholders’ workshop and beneficiary survey provided also positive feedback in relation to the performance of the government in this
   project.



   Government Performance Rating
   Satisfactory


b. Implementing Agency Performance
   All key staff of the PMU were appointed by MOF. However, as the Project Director was not appointed until December 2009, one year after
   the effectiveness of the project, in the meantime the Deputy Minister of Finance acted as the Project Coordinator.
       Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
       CAPSAP (P099924)



   The PMU timely resolved the implementation issues related to the project. This activity was more effective after the first restructuring, when
   the GOA harmonized its strategy with the project. At the beginning of the project some fiduciary aspects struggled, when implementation
   arrangements were still in flux, but they became satisfactory over time. The PMU established M&E arrangements with the beneficiary
   institutions, as well as a coordination mechanism, and the stakeholders relied on reports for decision-making. There was a good
   coordination of PMU with the Bank, SECO and all its beneficiary institutions.



   Implementing Agency Performance Rating
   Satisfactory

   Overall Borrower Performance Rating
    Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization

a. M&E Design
   The indicators, baselines and targets were identified and set up at the outset, in the PAD, as well as the data collection and reporting
   arrangements (Annex 3: Results Framework and Monitoring). The indicators were in line with the PDO and were revised during the second
   restructuring after changes were made to activities within the components. The indicators were simple and easy to ascertain amongst the
   beneficiaries by a monitoring and evaluation (M&E) Specialist working with the PMU. However, on the downside, PDO indicators are more
   output than outcome oriented.




b. M&E Implementation
   The PMU, responsible for the M&E of the project activities, collected periodically appropriate data from the beneficiaries. The M&E specialist
   was the responsible for the collection and consolidation of the required information and its consolidation to track progress against the
   monitoring plan included in the project’s Results Framework. The data proved reliable when validated. As the indicators were simple, in
   general terms the information was easy to acquire.




c. M&E Utilization
   M&E was effectively used for decision making, and even after the project closing a significant number of indicators are still used in different
   areas. The PMU evaluated and used up-to-date data to assess the speed of implementation, and particularly to achieve targets that were
   lagging behind, since they helped measure progress in addressing some of the institutional weakness of the sector. After the project closing,
   the MOF decided that FSTC will continue to use the current indicators for the training program. Also the current indicators will be used by
   the Accounting Policy Division to monitor the translation of accounting standards into Azerbaijani; and the Modern Technology and
   Automation Information Systems Department will expand on the current indicators used for FARABI, by using periodic beneficiary surveys to
   identify problem areas. Also other beneficiaries, including the CoA and APRA, will continue to maintain M&E data.




   M&E Quality Rating
   Substantial


11. Other Issues

a. Safeguards
   The category C project did not trigger any safeguards.
       Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                              Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
       CAPSAP (P099924)




b. Fiduciary Compliance
   Financial management was satisfactory, as well as procurement despite a slow start. All Financial Management covenants were complied with
   in accordance with the Financing Agreement. All audit reports were received and all had unqualified audit opinions, and there were no major
   issues raised in the audit reports.

   A revised procurement plan was quickly prepared and implemented after the project’s restructuring. The project complied with the Bank’s
   procurement guidelines, and comprehensive procurement plans were prepared and submitted to the Bank for approval. Approved procurement
   plans were published on a regular basis and updated when needed, and the Bank staff carried out ex ante or ex post previews of the
   procurement process, reviewed and cleared procurement documents, contract awards, and amendments, always according to the provisions of
   the Financing Agreements




c. Unintended impacts (Positive or Negative)
   None




d. Other
   None




12. Ratings
                                                                                                          Reason for
Ratings                                ICR                               IEG
                                                                                                          Disagreements/Comment
                                                                                                          Efficacy was rated modest in one
                                                                                                          objective and substantial in
                                                                                                          another. There are shortcomings
                                                                                                          related to (i) the international
                                                                                                          recognition of the Accounting and
Outcome                                Satisfactory                     Moderately Satisfactory           Risk Professional Association of
                                                                                                          Azerbaijan, and (ii) the Court of
                                                                                                          Accounts’ legal powers to
                                                                                                          undertake financial and
                                                                                                          performance audits using the new
                                                                                                          methodology.
Risk to Development Outcome            Modest                           Modest                            ---
                                                                                                          Quality at entry was only
                                                                                                          moderately satisfactory because
                                                                                                          the project could have provided
                                                                                                          more resources to Component
Bank Performance                       Satisfactory                     Moderately Satisfactory           Two to computerize FMIS in the
                                                                                                          public sector, a significant activity
                                                                                                          to improve accountability and
                                                                                                          transparency in the public sector
                                                                                                          finance management.
Borrower Performance                   Satisfactory                     Satisfactory                      ---
Quality of ICR                                                          Substantial                       ---
        Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                 Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
        CAPSAP (P099924)



Note
When insufficient information is provided by the Bank for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade the relevant ratings as warranted
beginning July 1, 2006.
The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column could cross-reference other sections of the ICR Review, as appropriate.


13. Lessons



 Three main lessons from this ICR are the following:

 • Financial Management Information Systems are a key element of Public Finance Management and a critical tool for appropriate financial
 auditing. In the case of this project, this tool (FARABI) was only included after the first restructuring and it was one of the most successful
 project achievements. This system even had the advantage that its cost was modest compared with similar systems in other countries.
 • Substantial training is essential to improve institutional capacity for implementing new tools. This project devoted significant resources to
 deliver quality training in Azerbaijan drawing on best practices and international standards on financial auditing.
 • The inclusion of new activities through project restructuring requires a deep evaluation and a risk analysis of their feasibility before the
 project’s closing, especially when their final achievement depends on external decisions. In the case of CAPSAP, the inclusion of the
 establishment of an association of professional accountants (ARPA) that follows international standards depended not only on the creation of
 an internal registry of the association, but also on the recognition by IFAC. Furthermore, at the closing of the project ARPA only complied with
 7 of the 47 actions required by IFAC, which is one of the main shortcomings of this project.




14. Assessment Recommended?

No


15. Comments on Quality of ICR

The ICR provided a clear and candid assessment of the operation. It is, in general, consistent with Bank guidelines and reasonably concise.
On the downside the ICR has some inconsistencies, for example:
• On page x it is said that the first element of PDO indicator number 2 (percent of total budget expenditures audited, using new methodology by
Chamber of Accounts was partially achieved, when it was not achieved (baseline: 0%, target 10%, actual value: 0%). The same was the case
on page xii, with respect to the intermediate outcome indicator number 7.
• On page 12, in section 3.2 (Achievement of Project Development Objectives), it does not mention in the heading the rating of PDO 1, which
was “partially achieved”, although the correct rating is mentioned in the text
• On page 16 it is said that PDO Indicator 1, related to the establishment of ARPA following international standards, was fully achieved -target
exceeded, when this PDO was only partially achieved, as indicated on page ix.

The ICR could have also provided more information about the main shortcomings, for example, why ARPA does not achieve all the
requirements needed for its international recognition, and the reasons for the delay of the amended law on the CoA. Evidence to compare the
quality of the training activities with those previously delivered abroad was also not provided, which IEG had to clarify in an interview with the
team.
The quality of the ICR is on the low side of substantial.




a.   Quality of ICR Rating
  Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)   Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
  CAPSAP (P099924)



Substantial
