Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 20418-KG
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR7.1 MILLION (US$ 9.42 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
FOR A
LAND AND REAL ESTATE REGISTRATION PROJECT
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective February 2000)
Currency Unit = Som
Som 1 = US$ 0.02
US$ 1 = 47
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 December31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB                 Asian Development Bank
APEAC               Agriculture Privatization and Enterprise Adjustment Credit
ASSP                Agriculture Support Services Project
BTI                 Bureau of Technical Inventory
CAS                 Country Assistance Strategy
CLAR                Center for Land and Agrarian Reform
cIS                 Commonweaith of Independent States
EU                  European Union
FINSAC              Financial Sector Adjustment Credit
GDP                 Gross Domestic Product
GIS                 Geographic Information System
GosRegistr          State Agency for Registration
IDA                 International Development Agency
IMF                 International Monetary Fund
LAN                 Local area network
PIU                 Project Implementation Unit
PPF                 Project Preparation Facility
PPU                 Project Preparation Unit
SA                  Social assessment
TA                  Technical assistance
USAID               United States Agency for International Development
VAT                 Value Added Tax
Vice President:   Johannes Linn
Country Director:   Kiyoshi Kodera
Sector Manager:   Joseph Goldberg
.Task Team Leader:   Edward Cook



KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
LAND AND REAL ESTATE REGISTRATION PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                      Page
1. Project development objective                                                       2
2. Key performance indicators                                                          2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project      2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                          2
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                  4
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                  4
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                       9
3. Benefits and target population                                                     10
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                      10
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                          12
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies         13
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design                           13
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                   14
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                        14
E. Summary Project Analysis
I. Economic                                                                           15
2. Financial                                                                          15
3. Technical                                                                          17
4. Institutional                                                                      17
5. Social                                                                             18
6. Environment                                                                        18
7. Participatory Approach                                                             18
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                     20
2. Critical risks                                                                     21
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                     22



G. Main Credit Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                           22
2. Other                                                                             22
3. Agreements reached at or by Negotiations                                          23
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                        23
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                       24
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                         25
Annex 2: Project Description                                                            28
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                        33
Annex 4: Economic Analysis Summary                                                      34
Annex 5: Financial Summary                                                              36
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                      37
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                    42
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                  43
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                 44
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                           46
Annex I 1: Social Assessment                                                            48
MAP(S)
IBRD 26822RI



KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
Land and Real Estate Registration Project
Project Appraisal Document
Europe and Central Asia Region
ECSSD
Date: May 8, 2000                                 Team Leader: Edward C. Cook
Country Manager/Director: Kiyoshi Kodera          Sector Manager/Director: Joseph R. Goldberg
Project ID: P049719                               Sector(s): VM - Natural Resources Management
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  Theme(s): Rural Development
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Project Financing Data
D Loan         Z Credit        O Grant         El Guarantee    El Other (Specify)
For LoanslCredits/Others:
Amount (US$m): 9.42
Proposed Terms:
Grace period (years): 10                              Years to maturity: 35
Commitment fee: 0.5%                                  Service charge: 0.75%
tlnancM  Plan:    Source                                     ocal         ForeWn          Total
GOVERNMENT                                                     2.42           0.00          2.42
IDA                                                            6.93           2.49          9.42
Total:                                                         9.35           2.49         11.84
Borrower: KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
Responsible agency: STATE REGISTRATION AGENCY
State Agency for Registration
Address: ul. Orozbekova 44, Bishkek 720040
Contact Person: Mr. T. E. Omuraliev
Tel: (996-312) 22-28-72               Fax: (996-312) 22-29-27              Email:
Estimated disbursements ( Bank FY/US$M):
Anua         2.21       20,02        2003        20004       205
Annual     2.2          .2.5         2.0         1.6         1.1
Cumulative     2.2          4.7          6.7        8.3         9.4
Project implementation period: FY2001-FY2005
Expected effectiveness date: 07/01/2000  Expected closing date:  12/31/2005
O  PAD Fonn Re MA-, 2000



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The objective of the Project is to support development of markets for land and real estate and the
more intensive and effective use of land and real estate through the introduction of a reliable and
well-functioning system for registration of rights in inmnovable property.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
Key outcome indicators will be: opening all registration offices at the rayon level throughout the
country by the end of 2001, the number of secondary transactions registered in comparison with 1998 (base
year), amount of loans secured against land and real estate in comparision with 1998 (base year), putting in
place a full regulatory and procedural framework for transactions in immovable property by July 2002.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 17641-KG                  Date of latest CAS discussion: 05/07/98
The strategic objectives of the CAS are to: (i) attain sustained economic growth, particularly
through focus on agricultural growth; (ii) reduce poverty; (iii) improve governance; and (iv) strengthen
public finances. Of these, the Land and Real Estate Registration Project will have direct bearing on the
first and fourth, and an indirect positive impact on the second and third. Adoption of the legal framework
for establishing the land registration system is a featured trigger in the high lending scenario of the CAS.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Clarity and security of property ri0hts. As the country continues the process of transition to a market
system, proper handling of rights in immovable property is essential for development. Heretofore,
information on land and real estate has been collected and maintained in an uncoordinated and incomplete
manner by a number of different agencies including the Bureaus of Technical Inventory, Land Agency
offices, city and regional Architects' offices, the State Property Fund, the State Cartographic Agency, and
others. Furthermore, as the process of initial privatization of immovable property moves forward, there is
a rapidly growing amount of information pertaining to rights, which is now difficult to access and retrieve
and hence of limited use.
Agriculture arowth. The Governnent has placed high priority on growth in the agriculture sector in its
strategy for economic recovery. With 45% of GDP accounted for by agriculture, growth in this sector is
essential for overall economic recovery. Following a significant decline in agricultural output in the first
half of the 1990's resulting from a large reduction in subsidies and shifts in relative prices for outputs and
inputs, agricultural output has begun recovering in the second half of the decade. However, significant
obstacles lie ahead if an acceptable rate of growth is to be maintained. The sector is caught in a cycle of
low profitability resulting from weak domestic demand, poor access to export markets, an underdeveloped
internal marketing infrastructure, and low levels of investment leading to further declines in the value of
capital assets.
Development of urban real estate markets. Despite extensive privatization of housing, and significant
progress in privatization of enterprises, real estate markets in urban areas remain underdeveloped. This
largely reflects the weak macro-economic situation in the country, but is made worse by inappropriate and
complicated transactions procedures, lack of supporting institutional infrastructure, and in many cases lack
-2 -



of clarity of title.
Government adnministration of land and real estate. The incomplete and uncoordinated information base
for immovable property deprives Government of the ability to administer land and real estate policy
appropriately. In particular, the weak fiscal cadastre results in reduced collection of taxes. Furthermore,
tax rates are established in an ad hoc manner and are not consistent with the goals of economic efficiency.
Government strategy in dealing with these issues has been built around introduction of policies
supportive of market development and unification and coordination of data held by the State. In particular,
for clarity and security of property rights, the Government has passed a Law on Registration, which was
reviewed throughout its development by the Bank. The Law provides the legal foundation for a
parcel-based title registration system. Furthermore, the Government has formed a new State Agency for
Registration (GosRegistr) which combines the most important agencies involved in maintaining informnation
on land and real estate (the Bureaus of Technical Inventory, the Land Agency, and the Cartographic
Agency). The institutional capacities of these agencies are now to be combined in establishment of
registration offices.
On agricultural growth, Government is following a multi-pronged strategy that addresses market
development, access to credit, improvements to infrastructure, and provision of services to farmers. An
important aspect of this strategy is enhancing incentives for efficient use of agricultural land, and for
investments in land. In the fall of 1998 the right to private ownership of land was adopted by referendum.
An additional package of land-related legislation is is in the process of being adopted. The Law on Land
and Law on Mortgage were adopted in the spring of 1999. IDA reviewed these in draft form and found
them to be supportive of land markets and investment in land. However, Parliament introduced a
moratorium on sales of agricultural land into the Law on Land, due to concerns about potentially poorly
functioning markets leading to concentration of ownership and other negative social consequences. IDA
will need to dialogue with Govermnent on the need to lift this moratorium. By putting in place critical
infrastructure for markets in land and real estate, implementation of this Project will help in tha effort.
Government strategy for development of urban real estate markets lacks coherence at this point,
in part due to the important role played by local government in this question. Beyond the initial
privatization of property, not enough has been done to address the institutional and procedural framework
for urban real estate markets. The package of draft laws associated with land will provide a step forward
for urban markets, but other legislative documents, including the Law on Condominium, require substantial
additional work. Local government in many cases does not appear oriented to the needs of real estate
market development. For the purposes of providing impetus in this area, a Presidential Decree entitled "On
certain measures for the further development of markets in immovable property in the Kyrgyz Republic"
was issued on April 13, 2000 which aims to provide a framework for more dynamic formation of real
estate markets and improvement in the Govermment regulatory framework. The establishment of
GosRegistr will also address issues in this area.
The creation of GosRegistr is the primary strategic initiative in addressing the issue of
Government administration of land and real estate. GosRegistr has been authorized to collect and
coordinate relevant information from its constituent offices as well as from other agencies. Appropriate
guidelines for maintenance of cadastral information are being developed as part of Project preparation and
will be put into practice during Project implementation. Property appraisal methodologies for use in the
fiscal cadastre as well as to support land and real estate market development need to be elaborated during
Project implementation.
-3 -



3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The Project will address these issues by putting in place a reliable system for registration of rights
in land and real estate, reviewing and simplifying existing procedures associated with transactions in land
and real estate, and conducting systematic registration. The strategic choice made concerning the project is
that the design and implementation framework be straightforward and manageable, and make do with a
limited project budget. Focus will be on building a reliable legal cadastre within the institutional
framework of the State Agency for Registration (GosRegistr). In addition the Project will contribute to
establishment of the fiscal cadastre through the collection of data on real property and improvement of
property appraisal methodologies. Further, the Project will address the lack of a supportive institutional
environment for land and real estate markets, and the inappropriate regulatory framework and excessively
high costs associated with transactions in immovable property. The project will not be capable, however, of
addressing many of the underlying economic factors influencing demand for immovable property.
The Kyrgyz Republic has a relatively strong basis for carrying out this Project, thanks in large part
to institutional structures inherited from the former Soviet Union. The Bureaus of Technical Inventory
(BTIs) exist in some 46 cities and rayons throughout the country that were traditionally responsible for
collecting information on residential properties. These offices have extensive data bases on these properties
(though the quality of these data, particularly in rural areas, is spotty) and are staffed with personnel
experienced in dealing with real estate issues. The Kyrgyz Republic also possesses a reasonably extensive
collection of base maps of appropriate scale that can be utilized in provision of cadastral index maps for
the registration system. While these base maps are generally between 8-25 years old, they represent an
important resource, obviating the need for costly new base mapping.
Creation of GosRegistr has united the BTIs and the land cadastre data base held by the former
State Land Agency and State Cartographic Agency into one unit, allowing the maximum use of existing
data. Additional data will need to be provided by agencies outside the GosRegistr structure, most notably
the Architects' offices that exist in most cities and large towns, which also possess valuable information for
the new registration system.
The Project builds upon the work carried out under a USAID Pilot Project for registration,
implemented primarily in 1997. The Pilot Project tested methods for the collection of data on immovable
property and initial development of forms and procedures for registration in two rayons. The Land and
Real Estate Registration Project will also cooperate with activities under the Swiss Pilot Cadastral Project
which has provided mapping equipment to the Civilian Mapping Agency and undertaken some aerial
photography and new base mapping for the country.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The Project will be composed of three components: (a) institutional development, (b) operational
services, and (c) training with major subcomponent activity as indicated:
(a)    Institutional Development
(i) establish management capacity at National level to supervise, monitor and promote the registration
- 4 -



system nationwide, to encourage development of the land and real estate market, and to monitor and
evaluate Project progress;
(ii) set up Registration offices throughout the country and implement sporadic (on demand) registration in
each office;
(iii) provide a full legislative, regulatory and procedural framework for operation of the Registration
offices;
(iv) coordinate with Government agencies, notaries and other land and real estate professionals in order to
implement straightforward and effective processes for conducting transactions; and
(v) coordinate with Government concerning establishment of a well-founded fiscal cadastre.
(b)    Operational Services
(i) conduct a public awareness and communication campaign that will include professional organizations,
Government, and the general public;
(ii) create a series of registration index maps for each Registration office through a mixture of new
mapping,      revised mapping and use of existing mapping;
(iii) carry out data collection from organizations with records relating to rights in land and real estate and
archiving of these records at the relevant Registration office; and
(iv) conduct systematic adjudication of rights and registration of rights in accordance with an agreed
schedule.
(c)    Traininu
(i) establish training centers for the ongoing in-service training of Registration office staff and personnel
involved in the Project;
(ii) establish a training program, professional organizations and other activities for the promotion of real
estate markets;
(iii) establish a long term training program to cater to the future needs of GosRegistr and a private
professional   capacity in land and real estate markets;
Project Inputs. The Project will require investment in personnel for the registration offices, medium-term
local consultants to conduct a program of systematic registration, office equipment and furniture, and office
refurbishment. Additional items will include technical assistance, preparation of registration index maps,
operating costs of the registration offices, a public information program, and the conduct of training
programs, seminars and workshops.
Institutional Development
The primary objective of this component is to get the registration offices of the State Registration
Agency (GosRegistr) up and running. Registration will be conducted at the local level in rayon and city
offices. A total of 50 local offices will be established under the Project. The staffing will be drawn
primarily from the existing staff of the former Bureaus of Technical Inventory (BTIs) and the rayon offices
of the former State Land Agency who will be financed from fees for services. These staff will be required
to pass a professional certification. Any new staff will be hired on a competitive basis. Merger of the
BTIs and the Land Agency offices will require co-location and office refurbishment to make the new
GosRegistr offices more client friendly and geared to their new purpose. Bishkek will be equipped with
roughly five new computers and Osh with two to supplement their existing systems. The other offices will
- 5 -



be provided with one computer each to assist in office work and to provide for backing up their databases
electronically. All offices will continue to utilize paper-based records and the paper-based system will
remain the primary operational system.
The Government has requested the inclusion in the Project of capacity to design and implement a
unified automated data base for immovable property. The rationale put forward by Government is that this
system will support the development of land and real estate markets by making information more readily
available beyond the local level, and will also contribute to greater transparency in land and real estate
administration. In the view of the mission, land and real estate market developrment will, by its very nature,
be tied directly to the local level. The additional benefit of a unified national automated data base on
development of such markets remains to be demonstrated.
The first step to be taken is to tender for a study of user requirements and potential design of the
system. Following completion of that study the Government and IDA will confer on appropriate further
action in implementation of the system. It was agreed during the mission that the amount of information in
the system needs to be kept to a minimum, otherwise the costs of the system will become unsustainable.
This means exclusion of graphics and inclusion of only key text fields in the unified date base.
Forms and procedures that have been elaborated during Project preparation will supplement the
existing Law on State Registration of Rights in Immovable Property, which was also adopted during the
preparation phase of the Project, and provide the practical framework for the operation of the system.
These forms and procedures have been pulled together into a Registration Practice Manual which will be
tested during the first phase of project implementation with the expectation that necessary revisions will be
introduced as project implementation moves forward.
To facilitate transactions in land and real estate, this component will also examine other regulations
and actions beyond registration of rights that are required to complete a transaction. There will be a need
to revise the function of notaries and to examine the existing requirements for physical inventory of
properties and inspections, with the goal of simplifying and reducing these steps. In addition, a public
awareness strategy and series of workshops and seminars for real estate professionals, primarily in
Bishkek and Osh, will help to develop the private market.
One of the functions of the BTIs was to conduct real property valuation for Government purposes.
Under this component, the methodology for such evaluation will be examined and recommendations made
for improving its quality and market-orientation. Local government will be included in this process through
the conducting of regional seminars and workshops, with the goal being consensus on the revised
methodologies and their adoption at the local level. The ability of these new valuation methodogies to have
a positive impact on municipal finances will require introduction of regulations on real property tax in
urban areas. Through the Project, the Bank will be able to dialogue on this issue, but adoption of such
regulations is clearly beyond the scope of this Project and will require broader interaction between the
Government and the Bank and other donors.
Under this component, a Project Implementation Unit (PIU) will be established subordinate to
GosRegistr. (At present, the PPU is located in the same building with GosRegistr with direct lines of
communication between the two.) The PIU will be composed of a head, two procurement specialists,
financial officer, disbursement specialist, translator, two lawyers, valuation specialist, training supervisor,
2 trainers (one for each of the two training centers), a national Project monitor, oblast level Project
monitors (1 per oblast), and IT specialist. Two construction engineers will be hired during the first two
years of Project implementation to assist with the remodeling of GosRegistr offices. Ex-patriate specialists
-6 -



in registration/cadastre, law, and land and real estate market development will also be hired.
Operational Services
This component will focus on providing data to the registration offices through a program for
systematic registration and the preparation of index maps. It will also provide information to the public
through information campaigns.
The program of systematic registration will be carried out in regions throughout the country, with
consideration to the quality, reliability, and availability of cartographic materials and other information on
property units. Priority will also be given to those areas where the value of real estate and prospective
market activity is highest. The process of systematic registration entails the collection and checking of
existing data, field work to verify the existing situation, and transfer of parcel boundary information to the
registration index maps. This work will be carried out through two channels. Under the first, GosRegistr
at the rayon/city level will hire and manage individuals to do this work. These individuals will be hired for
a fixed-term commensurate with the time required to complete the systematic registration in a given
rayon/city. These hirings will be made on the basis of terms of reference and in accordance with minimum
thresholds for education, experience, and health. These positions will be announced by GosRegistr and
hiring decisions made following interviews of those candidates satisfying the established minimum criteria.
Government employees will not be eligible for these positions. Under the second channel, the work of
systematic registration will be offered for tender to firms on a competitive basis. The reason that both
channels will be utilized is that at present no such firms exist in the Kyrgyz Republic, foreign firms lack the
experience and presence to carry out the work, and a reliable basis for getting on with the work must be in
place in the earliest phases of the Project. The Project Preparation Facility (PPF) is being used to test both
the contracting of individuals and firms for conducting systematic registration. To the extent that
experience supports it, contracting of these services through firms will be maximized. For the present it is
estimated that the amount of systematic registration financed by both methods will be equal.
Because of the availability of data on properties included in the zones for systematic registration,
this activity will have a strong data conversion aspect to it. It is estimated that at least 600,000 properties
will be covered by systematic registration from an estimated total of 3 million properties for the country as
a whole. The properties to be covered by systematic registration are primarily urban for which a large
amount of data exists. It is estimated that well less than half of the properties to be covered will require site
visits, and that roughly 10 percent will entail lengthy administrative or court clarification of existing rights.
On this basis, it is estimated that the average cost per property will be in the range of $4-5.
For the registration offices to function effectively, they need index maps indicating property
location. It was determined during Project preparation that existing base maps, though frequently 8-25
years old, would be adequate for the purposes of the new registration system. Use of the existing maps will
greatly reduce the costs of the Project and start-up of the new registration system.
Both the establishment of a land market and the process of systematic registration require
substantial investment in public awareness and communication. The Project will finance the production of
leaflets, explanatory pamphlets, public meetings, seminars, workshops, short courses, and advertising in
newspapers, radio and TV.
Under this component a program of technical assistance of $0.7 million will be financed. It will be
modeled on the program of TA utilized under the PHRD Grant. This has provided specialists in the areas
of registration systems, legal aspects of registration, and land cadastre. During the implementation phase
-7 -



of the Project a specialist in registration and cadastre will function as head of the expat consultant team and
be assisted by a legal specialist and a specialist in land and real estate valuation and market development.
The registration/cadastre specialist will be in country nearly full time the first two years of the Project
followed by periodic visits during the remainder. The legal specialist and market development specialist
will have short-to-medium term assignments concentrated primarily in the first two years of the Project.
Government has expressed its strong interest in locating grant funds to finance this part of the Project. The
Bank is assisting Government in this effort.
Training
Under the Project training programs in the following three areas will be conducted: (1) staff of
GosRegistr; (2) individuals and finns hired to conduct systematic registration; and (3) representatives of
local government, civil society, and organizations whose activity is tied with registration of rights in
immovable property. Prior to opening a rayon registration office, a general program of training will be
conducted for all staff, including land surveyors and those involved with building inventories. This general
program will then be followed by more specialized training for separate categories of specialists as follows:
*   heads of local offices
*   chiefs of departments within the offices
*   registrars
*   document processing specialists
v   cadastral topographers
*   accountants
Personnel involved in systematic registration will be trained in two separate groups; one for
specialists in the legal cadastre and one for cadastral topographers.
Training centers have been established in Kant and Osh.
Institutional development                                   5.98        50.5       3.72        39.5
Operational services                                        4.82        40.7       4.67        49.6
Training                                                    0.26         2.2       0.26         2.8
Refinancing of PPF                                          0.77         6.5       0.77         8.2
Total Project Costs                       11.83       100.0       9.42      100.0
Total Financing Required                        11.83       100.0       9.42      100.0
-8 -



2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
Continued dialogue on the evolving package of land legislation will be essential if land markets are
to function as hoped. The Land Code of the Kyrgyz Republic, adopted by Parliament on April 30, 1999,
was carefully reviewed by the Bank and other donors and was in good shape as it went to Parliament.
Parliament introduced one significant change -- a five-year moratorium on the sale of agricultural land.
The justification for a moratorium is that until a full legislative and institutional basis is in place, markets
would not function propertly, with potentially serious negative consequences for the population. This
position is not supported by the experience of other CIS countries where rural land markets have been
allowed to develop. Government's position is that once the institutional and regulatory basis is in place for
rural land markets to function, the moratorium on sales will be lifted. At negotiations a timeframe of
measures for reviewing this situation during the first halfof the Project was discussed so that the
moratorium can be lifted no later than June 30, 2002.
Beyond the moratorium on sales of agricultural land, reform of the existing procedures for
conducting transactions in land and real estate will be essential for the goal of reducing transactions costs
and stimulating markets. This will require first a careful review of existing procedures, identification of
institutions involved, and dialogue with local government on the specific reforms that will be necessary. A
condition of the Credit Agreement is submission to IDA of a plan for simplification of existing
procedures associated with transactions in immovable property by June 30, 2002.
The formation of GosRegistr represents a sound solution to the question of institutional
responsibility for the registration system. It incorporates the two agencies with the most to contribute to
that system - the BTIs and Land Agency offices. However, the mandate of GosRegistr goes well beyond
registration to include a broad range of land administration issues. This could represent a conflict of
interest, where the agency responsible for registration also has a role in land allocation and land use
monitoring functions. There has been discussion with Government on the relative mandates and roles of
GosRegistr and of the Centers for Land and Agrarian Reform (CLAR) of the Ministry of Agriculture and
Water Resources. This issue has now been clarified between the two agencies at the national level.
Coordination of their functions at the local level will continue to be tracked through the Land Component of
the Agriculture Support Services Project and through this Project as implementation gets underway.
The Project should also play a role in the appropriate development of the survey industry. First,
cadastral and survey standards and procedures should be oriented to the needs of the market; that is, what
economic agents themselves require for participation in transactions, rather than to technical benchmarks.
Excessively complicated or precise approaches to spatial information on properties will drive up the costs
of operating the registration system as well as the costs of transactions, with negative economic
consequences for the country. Preliminary draft cadastral standards have been reviewed by IDA and found
satisfactory. These will be tested and elaborated as part of the PPF. Adoption of cadastral standards
supportive of the development of land markets and satisfactory to IDA is a dated convenant in the Credit
Agreement. It was agreed that September 30, 2000 would be a realistic date to have this completed. The
second area of policy reform for the survey industry is the use of competitive tendering for contracts and
the encouragement of the growth of a private survey sector. Competitive tendering of topographic and
cadastral contracts under the Project will be required by the Credit Agreement.
-9-



3. Benefits and target population:
The target population is those who hold rights in land and real estate or who would like to acquire
such rights. Other beneficiaries would be those wanting to make use of the information base to be
developed by the project. The Social Assessment ofpotential beneficiaries was completed in September
1999 and reviewed at Appraisal. The major findings of the report are that: (1) the process of transactions
involving real property is too complicated and confused, and there is a lack of reliable information; (2)
security of tenure at present is mixed, with a share of the population unsure of the long-term security of
their property rights: and (3) performance of existing Government agencies in the area of land and real
estate is rated as low by the population.
Project benefits will be increased security of tenure, simplified procedures and reduced costs for
sales, lease, and mortgage transactions, and increased prices for, and investment in, land and real estate.
The project will also provide benefits to the State in the formn of an accurate infornation base for the fiscal
cadastre and for land and real estate administration.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
The project will be implemented over a period of five years.
GosRegistr will be the implementing agency and will be responsible for establishment of 50 local
registration offices throughout the country. The rayon and city level registration offices would be overseen
by the national office of GosRegistr, which will have a staff of approximately 14. This national office of
GosRegistr has the following functions and responsibilities: (1) set guidelines including elaboration of
regulations, procedures, and formats for registration; (2) monitor and audit registration activity at the rayon
level; (3) liaise with other ministries and agencies; (4) deal with complaints and appeals to activity at the
rayon level; and (5) develop and support the technology to be used in the registration offices.
Under the Presidential Decree establishing GosRegistr, the former offices of the Bureaus of
Technical Inventory (BTIs) and the offices of the former State Land Agency have been merged. The rayon
and city registration offices will be established on the basis of these existing agencies. In most cases this
will require the location of new premises sufficient to house the merged agencies. This will greatly reduce
potential mis-communication between the land cadastre and registration functions of GosRegistr.
Agreements have been signed between GosRegistr and all rayon akims in the country obligating them to
assist in location of such premises. Premises are now being set aside for each rayon.
Staff and records of the BTIs and the land agency offices will be pooled for the new system.  In
all but the busiest offices 1-2 staff will be assigned responsibility for maintaining the registration index
maps. In the largest offices, additional staff will be assigned to this function. Where necessary, new staff
with appropriate legal training and experience will be hired to serve as Chief Registrars of the local offices.
The above-described approach has the advantage of minimizing the net costs to the Govermment of
establishing the new registration system.
GosRegistr will be assisted in project implementation by a Project Implementation Unit (PIU) that
will be a direct continuation of the existing Project Preparation Unit (PPU). (For staffing of the PIU, see
the description of the Institutional Development Component, above.) The PIU will be responsible for
meeting the basic IDA requirements for Project management in the areas of procurement, financial
management, disbursement, and reporting. The technical aspects of the Project will be handled by the PIU
in conjunction with the Registration Department of GosRegistr.
- 10-



Management and monitoring of activities at the rayon/city level will be assisted by the appointment
of Oblast-level Project monitors. Their functions during Project implementation will include conducting
site visits to the rayon offices to monitor performance, relaying questions on procedures and regulations
from the rayon level to the national apparatus of GosRegistr, collecting and chanmeling information for the
Project management reports from the rayons to the national level, monitoring the program of systematic
registration and the public information work at the local level, assisting in the conduct of regional-level
seminars and workshops, and channeling relevant information on Project implementation from the national
level to the rayons.
The project will require close cooperation with local government in terms of revenue flows
associated with the registration system, the allocation of any new premises, cooperation between
GosRegistr and agencies subordinate to local govemment, and review and simplification of procedures
associated with transactions in land and real estate. Establishment of GosRegistr will require the diversion
of a small share of revenues generated by the local registration, offices from local budgets to the national
level. As the level of market activity picks up, the level of revenues received by the registration offices will
also increase, which will allow for additional hiring of staff at the local level and ease the problem of
financing GosRegistr.
The project will also require coordination with other Government agencies at the national level, in
particular the Ministry of Justice. The Government has ensured that coordination of Project
implementation issues will be handled within existingframeworks.
Accounting, financial reporting and auditing arrangements. The PIU will be responsible for
financial management. It will carry out financial accounting and will maintain separate project accounts
and records for project related expenditures in accordance with International Accounting Standards (IAS).
Planning and Budgeting will be the responsibility of GosRegistr. Planning will entail the preparation of an
Annual Work Program, with targets established for physical progress. The project budget will be provided
component wise in the annual Estimates of the Government. As a condition of negotiations, the Government
has provided a line item in the Budget for 2000 for the Project of 6.7 million soms ($131,400). At
negotiations the counterpart financing requirements for the Project for the year were reviewed in
comparison with the funds already allocated in the Budget. As a condition of Boardpresentation,
reconciliation between the work program for the Project for 2000 and the funds allocated in the
Government Budget has been made. For subsequent years ofproject implementation, annual work
programs and project budget, satisfactory to IDA, including the finalization of Government estimates,
with the required provision of counterpart funds, will be prepared and approved by October 31 of the
preceding year.
The financial management capacity within the Kyrgyz Republic has not been the subject of a
detailed review by IDA. However, primarily because of other implementation considerations, any
weaknesses that may exist in the financial management capacity within the Kyrgyz Republic have been
mitigated for this project by the use of the PIU for financial management, drawing upon the intemational
consultants with experience of IDA and IBRD project implementation, and of international auditors for the
audit of the project. In November, 1999, IDA updated its assessment of the Kyrgyz banking sector and
concluded that a small number of banks did not meet IDA's eligibility criteria to house IDA projects'
Special Accounts. Government and IDA continue to monitor the perfornance of the banking sector and
have reached agreement with some of the ineligible banks on the steps required to achieve full eligibility in
order to increase the number of banks from which to choose. The PIU will open a Special Account in one
of the available eligible banks.
- 11 -



The financial management system in the (PPU) will be strengthened to satisfy IDA's minimum
financial management requirements as stipulated in OP/BP 10.02. This will include the recruitement of a
finance manager and a disburement officer, and consultants will be engaged to design a stisfactory financial
management procedures and to train the staff in the operation of the system. These actions have been
completed as a condition of to Board presentation of the proposed Credit. The first full set of project
management reports (PMRs) will be prepared for the quarter ending December 31, 2000, and quarterly
thereafter. At negotiations it was clarified that project funds wil be initially disbursed under the
Association's established procedures, including the use of Statements of Expenditures (SOEs), and a move
to PMR-based disbursements would be made at the mutual agreement of the Government and the
Association once the PIU is familiar with the Project's monitoring aspects and is considered able to produce
the PMRs in a sufficiently timely and reliable manner. A change to PMR-based disbursements will be
considered by December 31, 2002.
The PIU will be responsible for maintaining the accounts. The accounts will be audited annually
according to Intemational Accounting Standards by independent auditors acceptable to IDA and the
Government. Audit reports will be submitted to IDA within six months of the end of the Government fiscal
year. Selection of independent auditors acceptable to IDA is a condition of credit effectiveness.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
A number of project altematives have been considered by Government over the past two years in
the general area of registration and cadastre. One was to place greater emphasis on producing large
amounts of new base mapping. This was rejected on the grounds of the costs involved and the fact that
existing base maps, though dated, are of sufficient accuracy for use in maintaining the cadastral index
maps. Another was to focus strictly on establishment of the registration offices without attention to other
issues effecting development of land and real estate markets. This was rejected on the grounds that without
a broader approach, the economnic development benefits of the project could be muted. Finally there was a
proposal to conduct systematic registration quickly throughout the whole country. This was rejected on the
grounds of cost and the prospective level of transactions anticipated.
The Project was originally prepared with primary emphasis on the ability of the local registration
offices to serve the population. The Project did not directly address the question of bottom-up flow of
information being generated by these offices. Following Appraisal, the Government requested the inclusion
of a unified automated system for the more reliable compilation of information at the oblast and national
levels. The rationale put forward by Government is that this system will support the development of land
and real estate markets by making inforrnation more readily available beyond the local level, and will also
contribute to greater transparency in land and real estate administration. The additional benefit of a unified
national automated data base on development of such markets remains to be demonstrated, but given the
high priority placed by Government on this issue, it was agreed to include funds for this activity into the
budget for the Project. It was agreed that the amount of information in the system needs to be kept to a
minimum, otherwise the costs of the system will become unsustainable. This means exclusion of graphics
and inclusion of only key text fields in the unified date base.
As concerns project management, one proposal was to have the Land Agency oversee the project
and to conduct registration on the basis of their existing rayon offices. This was rejected on the grounds
that roughly two-thirds of the information on immovable property is housed in the BTIs and the Land
Agency is particularly weak in the large cities. Another proposal was to create a new agency with new
- 12 -



offices at the local level that would parallel existing BTI and land agency offices. This was rejected on the
grounds of unnecessary duplication of records and coordination of information, and the high net costs to
Government. The last proposal was to have the Ministry of Justice implement the new registration system.
This is consistent with the practice in many Western countries but was rejected on the grounds of the
extremely limited institutional capacity of the Kyrgyz Ministry of Justice and the Ministry's extremely
limited experience with market-oriented registration systems.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Under the Land Component of the Agriculture Support Services Project, initial privatization of
land is being accelerated through the issuance of land certificates. A great deal of work has been completed
in this area, with the large majority of rightsholders already having received their certificates. The Land
and Real Estate Registration Project follows on that work by setting up a system for registration of those
rights as well as of subsequent transactions as markets develop. The Project also builds on IDA
interventions in development of the basic legal framework for land and real estate markets and early
development of the financial sector. There are tie-ins with other donors' activity as well, most notably the
USAID-financed Real Estate Market Project (REMAP), and work on strengthening the country's cadastral
capabilities financed by the Swiss Government.
Latest Sup Wrvision
:I-       Secor Issuect                                    -      Bac  (PSR) Ratings
-__________________________    ;___-__-- ___i_____    _ (_     . k-financed   pr-f  only)
Implementation   Development
Bank-financed                                                     Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Land privatization                 Agricultural Support Services      U              S
Project
Land market development            Agricultural Prizatization and     S              S
Enterprise Adjustment Credit
Rural credit                       Rural Finance Project              S              S
Banking reform                     FINSAC                             S              S
Other development agencies
USAID                               Pilot Registration
Swiss Coordination Office          Pilot Cadastre
ADB                                 Chui Area Agricultural
Development
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Longer-term Bank experience with land registration, as reflected in an OED Review from 1992,
indicates the importance of treating this subject under a stand-alone project, rather than as a component of
a broader development project. The reason for this is that usually there is specific institutional
responsibility and a rather complex set of policy issues associated with implementation of land registration,
which has frequently not received due attention in more complicated implementation designs. Strong
conmnitment from Government is also essential to achieve project objectives, particularly when these
projects take on objectives beyond just registration in the area of land and real estate market development.
- 13 -



Experience in ECA, particularly in the CIS countries, has demonstrated a tendency among
counterparts to be excessively oriented toward computerization of systems and often to set unreasonably
costly standards for survey and mapping in support of registration. There has also been a tendency in the
CIS countries to put primary weight on the benefits accruing to the State in the form of improved
information about land and real estate, and secondary weight on the interests of rights holders. Lastly,
similar projects in ECA have had to deal with strong inter-agency competition and lack of cooperation in
setting up registration systems, particularly between cadastral and legal agencies of the Government.
The proposed project design is simple and straightforward, with a single implementing agency that
combines the most important pre-existing agencies for land and real estate. The design is not oriented to
computerization, with automation only taking place in offices with high levels of current or anticipated
transactions. There is also a strongly pragmatic view toward the needs for new base mapping, and a
detennination on the part of the Borrower to maximize the use of existing resources and information, and to
find workable solutions that will deliver results for the population.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The Borrower has taken strong action to prepare for implementation of this project. First, a Law
on Registration was developed and passed by Parliament on a priority basis which fully meets the needs for
a fundamnental legal basis. Second, a new agency has been established specifically for implementation of
the registration system and development of markets in land and real estate - GosRegistr. This is one of the
strongest solutions to the institutional requirements for a registration system in the ECA region. The
President on a number of occasions has expressed to IDA that this project has highest priority from the side
of the Government. The President's advisor for rural affairs has been made Director of GosRegistr and
given responsibility for getting the registration system up and runmning.
A PPF is now effective for the Project. It will test and further elaborate training programs
developed by the PHRD Grant, will test operational procedures in four model registration offices,
undertake office refurbishment for the first phase of registration offices to be opened under the Project, and
will undertake preparation of cadastral index maps for those offices.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
IDA is in a unique position to assist the Government, with a good deal of experience in the issues
to be addressed by the project in closely related countries of the CIS as well as around the world. The
Government will need a relatively broad range of advice and support, that will be able to link the system of
registration into the larger picture of development of markets for land and real estate. With its full program
of support with the Government in the areas of rural development, privatization, banking reform, and fiscal
reform, IDA is well placed to do this. IDA is also in position to consider a full variety of potential models
and approaches in working with the Borrower, whereas bilateral donors are sometimes constrained by the
practices of their own country.
IDA, under the land component of the Agriculture Support Services Project is working directly
with the Borrower on the question of land reform and land privatization. The linkage between initial
privatization of land and subsequent registration of rights and secondary transactions in land is strong. The
Bank is also working with the Borrower to develop the financial system in the countryside through the
Rural Finance Project. Having these three activities undertaken with the support of a single donor will help
the Borrower in coordinating a coherent overall approach to development of land markets.
- 14 -



E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
O Cost benefit     NPV=US$ million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
O Cost effectiveness
* Other (specify)
The analysis in Annex 4 follows guidelines presented in a paper prepared under the auspices of the Land
Policy and Administration Thematic Team, entitled "Economic Analysis of Rural Land Administration
Projects" by Stefano Pagiola. The main benefits that a land and real estate registration system can provide
are: (1) increased security of tenure, which can reduce disincentives to invest in land and real estate; (2)
increased access to credit, by removing constraints to, and reducing the costs of, both long-term and
working capital; (3) improved functioning of sales and long-term lease markets for land and real estate; and
(4) an improved information base for the fiscal and land administration cadastres.
The Project is expected to provide improved security of land tenure in urban areas, where land was
traditionally controlled by the municipality and private land rights remain in doubt. In rural areas, the
Project will strengthen tenure rights in land that has recently been allocated from lands of the former
farming collectives. Due to the underdeveloped financial sector in the Kyrgyz Republic, there is not
expected to be a large impact through strengthened bases for collateral, though the Project will support the
development of a stronger financial sector being pushed by the Rural Finance projects and other IDA
interventions. The Project stands to greatly simplify the process of sales and lease transactions in
immovable property by simplifying previous steps and procedures, and by providing legal guarantee from
the State. Lastly, the Project will provide a much more reliable cadastral information base for fiscal and
other land administration functions.
2. Financial (see Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
Financial analysis has been carried out of the registration system based on the fee schedule adopted on a
preliminary basis in 1999 and the level of average actual monthly transactions recorded by the BTI and
Land Agency offices during 1999. For the period 2000-2003 an annual increase in transactions of 5
percent was assumed. Beyond that point, no further increase in the annual number of transactions is
assumed. These assumptions are very conservative and can be taken as a 'pessimistic' case scenario.
The fee structure is as follows: registration of rights, 80 som; technical inventory of real estate, 150 som;
infornation request, 30 som; physical delineation of new land parcels, 310 som; issuance of an Act for land
(initial privatization of a land parcel), 200 som. These fees, particularly the one for registration of rights,
are quite low by regional and intemational standards and should allow access to the system by low income
groups of the population.
Given these assumptions, the Bishkek registration office is able to cover all its tax obligations (VAT,
income, and other) and generate positive net revenues of roughly 500,000 som per year. The medium size,
or Class 'B' offices are also able to generate positive net flows, due largely to their involvement in
allocation of new land parcels. A relatively large Class 'B' office, such as Sokoluk would generate after-tax
net revenues of approximately 1 million som annually. Elimination of the land allocation function or a
serious reduction in the fees charged for this service would significantly impact this outcome. The smallest,
or Class 'C' offices currently record so few transactions, that with the above-mentioned assumptions, they
would be unable to generate positive net revenues. Rather, they would lose on average roughly 200,000
som annually.
- 15 -



The most straightforward way to make the Class 'C' offices able to cover their costs is to activate the land
market in the countryside. With all other assumptions laid out above retained, the level of land market
transactions would need to increase by a factor of seven to allow the typical Class 'C' office to cover its
costs. The current moratorium on sales of agricultural land precludes this market activization from taking
place. This issue has been pointed out to our counterparts and barring the necessary increase in land
market activity, the following possible approaches have been discussed: (i) consolidation of Class 'C'
offices into larger territorial units; (ii) raising the fees schedule; (iii) reduction of staff in these offices; and
(iv) cross-subsidization of these offices by the profitable Class 'B' and Class 'A' offices.
The problem with consolidation of the Class 'C' offices is that it will increase the average distance between
rightsholders and the registration office, and increase the chances that the population will by-pass the new
system. The increase in the fee schedule would have a similar impact, particularly on the poorest segments
of the population. Some reduction in staff would likely be possible from a business point of view, but
might prove difficult from a political point of view. Cross subsidization would be viable, given the fact
that on balance, the offices of GosRegistr would run a modest revenue surplus after taxes, even with the
conservative assumptions laid out above. These issues will be tracked during the first two years of Project
implementation and appropriate measures taken.
The flow of credit funds under the Project will be directly to GosRegistr through the PIU. Procurement of
equipment, furniture, vehicles, computers and office equipment, and supplies for systematic registration
will be carried out by the PIU at the national level. Some expenses will be incurred at the sub-national
level. These are: hiring of staff and transportation associated with systematic registration, and the
incremental operating costs of equipment maintenance. Allocation of funds from the Special Account for
these expenditures will be made on the basis of SOEs and reports on the number of properties covered by
the program of systematic registration, and in accordance with the established Project budget. Accounts
will be opened at the local level for the receipt of these transfers and will be managed by accountants at the
local level that will be specially hired for this purpose.
Fiscal Impact:
As laid out above, the registration offices as a whole will be self-financing net of taxes payable by these
offices. However, with the conservative assumptions laid out above, the taxes and net revenues of these
offices will not be sufficient to cover all Project costs. An important share of the Project costs will finance
initial registration on a systematic basis. These costs will be bome by the Government through the Credit
without fees being charged property rights holders. This approach is considered critical for the smooth
functioning of the systematic process and for the public's acceptance of the new system.
A potential offset to the costs associated with systematic registration will be the increased land and real
estate tax that this information will allow. For analysis of the impact of the Project on tax on immovable
property, the following assumptions were made. First, that 300,000 properties have been covered by
systematic registration and data filed at the registration offices. Second, that the average value of each
property is USD 5,000. Third, that the annual tax rate applied to immovable property is 0.3 percent.
Following these assumptions, the average annual tax per property is USD 15 per year, and the total
revenue generated each year is USD 4.5 million. This compares with the total cost for implementation of
the systematic registration program of roughly USD 4 million and total value of the Credit of USD 9.425
million.
Government has expressed commitment to introducing a tax on real property. An important element of this
- 16 -



issue is the current seven percent transaction tax collected by notaries. A'Government strategy for
coordination of introduction of land and real estate taxes with the phased removal of the transactions tax
will need to be developed, and will be a primary issue for the Inter-ministerial commnission to be established
under the Project.
An additional offset will be the reduced costs of subsequent registration of rights on a sporadic basis for
these properties. Because of the higher value of land and real estate in urban areas, and the higher level of
transactions anticipated there in the short-to-medium term, systematic registration under the Project will be
undertaken first in urban areas of the country.
3. Technical:
Appropriate standards for survey and cadastre need to be elaborated in support of the project. Because
these issues are under the mandate of GosRegistr, their solution is expected to be rather straightforward,
but could be complicated by technical interest groups in the cartographic agency and elsewhere. During
appraisal draft cadastral standards were presented by Government that show that treatment of this issue
is on track. It is a covenant of the Credit Agreement that satisfactory survey and cadastral standards be
finalized and issued by September 30, 2000.
There will be limited reliance on computerized systems under the Project. The bulk of the registration
offices will be receiving only one computer and printer to assist in their office operations and to provide an
electronic archive of their databases. These offices will continue to conduct registration of rights on a
paper basis. Bishkek city will have a relatively modest LAN system installed which can allow for shifting
registration functions to computerized forms as the capability is developed. Under the Project, a strategy
for the development of a low-cost method for linking local databases will be elaborated. During project
preparation it was determined that sufficient technical skills exist within the country to handle the IT
requirements of the Project.
During preparation it was determined that sufficient capacity exists within the country to compete for the
survey/cadastral contracts to be tendered. During appraisal Government commitment to ICB/NCB
procedures for these contracts was verified.
4. Institutional:
a. Executing agencies:
The Project will be implemented by GosRegistr which incorporates within its structure the registration
offices and responsibility for the land cadastre. This is conceptually a very strong institutional basis for
Project implementation. The actual capacity of GosRegistr, as with most agencies in the Kyrgyz Republic,
is limited at present. At the national level, low pay scales limit the quality of staff that are prepared to
serve. At the local level pay scales are less of a problem, as they are competitive and generally qualified
staff are available. Cooperation with the city and rayon architect's offices will be helpful for project
implementation, as they hold useful graphic and text data on land and real estate. During two Project
seminars that were held during pre-appraisal, GosRegistr obtained agreement with rayon akims to provide
necessary assistance to the Project in allocation of office premises, distribution of revenues, and
cooperation with the rayon architects' offices. Cooperation with the Ministry of Justice would also benefit
project implementation. This Ministry is particularly weak, however, at both the national and regional
levels. At Appraisal agreement was reached on the use of administrative procedures in the first instance
for dispute resolution, while leaving clients recourse to the courts if so desired.
b. Project management:
- 17 -



Responsibility for project management will rest with the national apparatus of GosRegistr, assisted by a
Project Implementation Unit directly subordinated to GosRegistr and located in the same building. The
PIU will be formed on the basis of the existing PPU. Techical consultants will be hired to assist with
Project implementation and oversight. In addition, for the first two years the PIU will have on its staff a
construction engineer to oversee the program of refurbishment of rayon and city registration offices.
5. Social:
A social assessment of rights holders and other potential users of the new registration system has been
completed and was reviewed at Appraisal. The executive summary of this assessment is attached as Annex
1 1. The basic findings of the social assessment are provided below under section 7(a).
During drafting of the Law on State Registration of Rights in Immovable Property it was ensured that the
system would treat both genders equally in terms of identification of rights holders, and in the exercise of
rights granted by the Law. The follow-up social assessments during project implementation will track this
issue.
6. Environmental assessment:               Environment Category: C (Not Required)
The expected environmental impact of the Project is positive. The registration system will provide clarity
and security of tenure, that will strengthen incentives for more prudent use of land and other natural
resources. The Project will provide more complete information on the cadastre that can be used for the
purposes of enforcing environmental regulations and development controls.
7. Participatory Approach (key stakeholders, how involved, and what they have influenced or may
influence; if participatory approach not used, describe why not applicable):
a. Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups:
The primary beneficiaries are current and potential rightsholders in land and real estate. Other affected
groups are those involved in land and real estate markets in a professional capacity, and staff working in
agencies that have been amalgamated into GosRegistr and who now will be working in the registration
system. A social assessment of these groups was reviewed at Appraisal. The assessment targeted the
needs and interests of users of the registration system and how users view the quality of the operation of the
former BTIs and land agency offices. The basic findings of the social assessment are that: (1) the process
of registration is too complicated and confused, and there is a lack of reliable information about it; (2)
security of tenure at present is mixed, with a share of the population unsure of the long-term security of
their property rights: and (3) performance of existing Govemment agencies in the area of land and real
estate is rated as low by the poputation.
The project's participation strategy will have the following steps:
Centralize the registration process. Clients are interested in concentrating the registration process in one
place. Final decisions should be centralized, speeding the process.
Develop support technology at registration offices. Proposals and recommendations to simplify
registration should improve operational working conditions including renovation of rooms, procurement of
fumiture (desks, chairs, and shelves), transport to carry out fieldwork, and installation of computers,
copiers and fax machines. Bishkek's BTI should be moved to a newer, larger building.
- 18-



Simplify registration process. Develop a package of documents to simplify the procedure of collecting
documents; develop criteria on buying and selling real estate; introduce a single schedule of tariffs; replace
the 7 percent state fee by a tax on the sale of real estate; develop the institution of professional appraiser of
buildings.
Reduce constraints. Reduce or remove obvious constraints. Make documentation procedures more
transparent to remove uncertainties about transaction costs and processing time.
Use simpler, understandable application forms. Issue forms in Kyrgyz and Russian to increase access
for less educated people. Use Kyrgyz language more widely in infornation campaigns and registration.
Make information available. Improve information flows and reduce insensitivity to the needs of clients
and transaction costs. Prepare and distribute materials to inform clients of all education levels about
requirements, documentation, procedures, costs, conditions, processing times, direct and indirect
application costs and fees, appeal mechanisms, support sources, and other relevant issues. The outcome of
the information campaign will be to increase transparency, establish accountability, generate reasonable
expectations, and empower clients to protect their interests and articulate their needs.
Eliminate corruption. Put in place a transparent, effective system.
Make tenure rights more secure. Secure private property rights in land and clarify rights of all rights
holders to prevent the disputes over land, especially in the south. This is very urgent need.
Monitor progress and address emerging issues. Establish an ongoing monitoring program to assess the
adequacy and effectiveness of information campaigns, articulate lessons learned, assess the customer
orientation of Gosregistr, and identify opportunities to consolidate and improve its efficiency and
effectiveness. Use regular reporting channels and employ focus groups for in-depth exploration of specific
issues, as appropriate.
Coordinate agencies in land and real estate registration. Inter-agency rivalry and incoherent state policy
have a negative influence on service to clients. Coordinate the registration activities of the architectural
agency (Glavarhitektura), the legal agency (Ministry of Justice) and Gosregistr.
Staff of the four model registration offices will be queried concerning proposed office procedures, forms,
and service standards over the first half of 2000. Seminars for those involved in operation of the new
registration system were held in June, 1999 in the north of the country (Kant) and in the south (Osh) at
which time their views on design of the new system were discussed. Feedback thus far has had impact on
keeping procedures and forms as simple and straightforward as possible, and to incorporate all necessary
steps into a "one-stop-shopping" framework.
The initial social assessment will be followed by two during implementation; one in 2001 and the other in
2003. Social impact monitoring will focus on a number of aspects, which are expected to change over time,
reflecting the multi-dimensionality of social aspects of the project. The major topic areas and the types of
changes to be assessed are as follows:
Role of Gosregistr offices. Do offices meet their obligations? Do offices acquire new roles and meaning
consistent with their original mandate, or on other dimensions? How can Gosregistr facilitate or complicate
- 19-



coordination between other actors (State Architecture agencies, notaries)?
Benefits. Do the BTI and land offices have an obvious impact on access and simplification of land and
real estate registration?
Satisfaction. Are clients satisfied with their function and impact? How might corruption be eliminated?
What characteristics promote or impede land registration project success?
Access. Are offices perceived to increase access to land registration or other resources?
Impediments. What external and internal factors promote/impede land registration project?
Coordination. How much and what kind of mechanism should there be for inter-agency cooperation for
clients' benefit? How can national and regional agencies coordinate their efforts meaningfully to improve
land and real estate registration? How can coordination between those actors be facilitated?
Training. How can guidelines and training be most effectively disseminated and carried out to have an
impact on local and national registration process?
Context. What is the influence of the social context on Land Registration Project success?
b. Other key stakeholders:
Other key stakeholders are local government and other Government agencies involved in land and real
estate. These stakeholders participated in a Seminar conducted during Appraisal to review the findings of
the social assessment. The social assessment and the seminar identified some key areas where conflict of
interest between GosRegistr and other Government agencies exists and will need to be dealt with. During
the two Project seminars in June, agreement was reached with rayon akims on the responsibilities of the
new registration system and the Project to them, and their responsibility to the same. The Head of
GosRegistr has continued efforts to keep these lines of communication open. The major concern of local
government is in the proposed elimination of the 7 percent transaction tax collected by the notaries at the
time of sale of land and real estate. These revenues flow to the local budget and are significant. It was
agreed that elimination of the transaction tax should be done in a phased manner and directly coordinated
with a program for increasing revenues from land and real estate taxes.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
World experience indicates that well-run registration systems can be self-financing at reasonable
levels of fees for service. Sustainability will require continued legislative and regulatory reform to
stimulate transactions in land and real estate, and careful tracking of performance of the registration
offices. Sustainability will also require that costs of system operation be kept within reasonable bounds,
through the use of simplified procedures and pragmatic technical standards associated with parcel survey.
Implementation of the project will begin in those areas of the country with the highest level of transactions
and demand for land and real estate. As experience is gained and the basis for functioning of land and real
estate markets improves, registration offices will be opened in the remaining areas of the country in a
phased manner.
- 20 -



2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1):
tRisk                  Risk RAting    -      Risk Minimization Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Population chooses not to use the          S        Public information campaign; support from
registration system                                  Government on simplified transactions
procedures; and reasonable fee schedule
Cost of running the system is excessive    M        Agreement on simplified registration procedures,
economically supportable application of
automated technology, limited investment in new
base mapping
Courts can't handle the level of disputes  S        Use of administrative procedures to handle
and other legal issues                              disputes in the first instance, with right of
recourse to the courts when they remain
unresolved.
Necessary cooperation with local           S         Serninars for local government in the advantages
govermment and notaries is not achieved             of developed land and real estate markets and of
improved property appraisal techniques
Necessary legislative and regulatory       S         Continue Bank-Government dialogue on these
environment to allow markets to function            issues
not established
Low or no demand for land and real estate  H         Adhere to IMF stabilization program for
macroeconomic stabilization
Inappropriate or no land and real estate   S         Bank-Government dialogue on these issues
tax legislation and procedures
From Components to Outputs
Ineffective coordination and functioning   M         Keep management of GosRegistr in place
of PIU and GosRegistr
Insufficient counterpart financing         S         Adhere to proposed counterpart financing share;
pursue possibility of securing GosRegistr budget
through the EU Food Security Program
Insufficient inter-agency cooperation      M        To a large extent addressed by establishment of
GosRegistr. Beyond this, propose reorientation
of additional agency functions to the
Government
- 21 -



Inability to locate trust funds to finance  S         Government has expressed its concerns on
technical assistance                                  borrowing for TA and wants to have most TA
provided on grant terms. The Government of
Sweden has expressed interest in financing the
program of TA for the first 18-24 months of the
Project.
Lack of coordination with Swiss Pilot       N         Good working relations established with the
Project for land cadastre                             Swiss Aid Office and the Swiss Pilot Project
team
Mandate of GosRegistr too broad             M         Continue dialogue and track during
implementation
Overall Risk Rating                         S
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
None.
G. Main CreditConditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
The selection of an independent auditor, acceptable to IDA.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
Management
Throughout the implementation of the Project, the PIU will be maintained with a sufficient number of staff,
consultants, and adequate resources and terms of reference satisfactory to IDA.
Accounts/Audit
Borrower to maintain a financial management system acceptable to IDA and have the financial records,
accounts and financial statements for each fiscal year audited and submit a certified audit report to IDA
within six months after the end of each fiscal year.
Monitoring, Review, and Reporting
Borrower to maintain policies and procedures adequate to monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in
accordance with indicators satisfactory to IDA, the implementation of the Project and the achievement of
Project objectives.
Borrower to prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to IDA, and submit to IDA on or about March
31, 2002 a mid-term review integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities on the
progress achieved in carrying out the Project during the period preceding that date and setting out measures
- 22 -



recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the Project
objectives during the remaining period of the Project.
Counterpart financing
The Borrower to provide as needed the funds, facilities, services, and other resources needed for the
Project.
Government will submit its annual work plans and Project budgets for each year of Project implementation
other than the first not later than September 30 of each year for review by IDA.
Technical
Procedures for systematic registration acceptable to IDA adopted by September 30, 2000.
Government Plan for simplification of procedures associated with registration submitted to IDA by June
30, 2002.
3. Agreements reached at or by Negotiations:
The conditions of negotiations were the following four measures:
(i) Revised Project Implementation Plan reviewed by IDA and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
(ii) Revised financial analysis of the registration offices reviewed by IDA and found to be satisfactory.
(iii) Line itern for the Project included in the Government Budget for 2000.
(iv) Selection of a financial management consultant.
The following were discussed and agreed to at negotiations:
A timeframe of measures for reviewing the current moratorium on sale of agricultural land and
establishment of a program of measures to rescind it during the first half of the Project.
Flow of funds from the national to local level against eligibfe expenditures for systematic registration,
equipment maintenance and supplies.
Assessment of progress on preparing the bidding documents for the first year of Project implementation and
agreement on having these completed by May 31, 2000.
Annual Work Program and Budget for the first year of the Project.
H. Readiness for Implementation
O 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
-23-



L 1. b) Not applicable.
OI 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
O 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
0 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
Bidding documents for the first year of imnplementation and office refurbishment plans for the first half year
of Project implementation are to be ready by May 31, 2000.
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
O 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
O 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
Edward C. Cook                   Jy+ph A. Goldberg                  Woshi Kodera
Team Leader                      Scor ManagerlDirector             Country ManagerlDirector
-24 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC: Land and Real Estate Registration Project
. Key Perfomnce_
Hierarchy of Objectives          Iwnicators          Monitoring & Evaluation    Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:        Sector/ country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Attain sustained growth   Level of economic growth   Macro-economic data        Benefits of growth are
distributed across all income
groups
Strengthen public finances    Level of budgetary revenues   Budget data         Share of public finances
available to redress poverty
issues is increased
Project Development       Outcome I Impact           Project reports:           (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                Indicators:
Establish a well-functioning   Service standard of processing Data from the registration  Supportive macro-economic
registration system nationwide registration of secondary  offices, banks, and brokers   framework
transactions of 3 days
established by July 1, 2003.
Necessary legislative and
regulatory environment to
allow sales, lease, and
mortgage markets to function
Sufficient demand for land
and real estate
Output from each          Output Indicators:         Project reports:           (from Outputs to Objective)
component:
Institutional development                                                       Population chooses to use the
system
Set up registration offices  First phase offices opened by  PIU reports and supervision   Cost of running the system is
throughout the country    Dec. 31, 2000, seond phase   missions                 not excessive
offices opened by July 1, 2001,
all offices opened by Dec. 31,
2001
Provide a full legislative,  Regulations on the      PIU reports and supervision   Courts can handle the level of
regulatory, and procedural   functioning of the rayon  missions                 disputes and other legal issues
framework for operation of the registration offices issued by                   that arise
registration system       July 1, 2000
Existing procedures for sales,
lease, and mortgage
transactions reviewed and
revised by July 1, 2002
Establish well-founded    Number ofjurisdictions     PIU reports and supervision   Appropriate land and real
valuation methodologies and  utilizing approved      missions                   estate tax legislation and
utilize them at the local level  methodologies                                  procedures
- 25 -



Establish management       Effective functioning of PIU   supervision missions     Local government willingness
capacity to oversee the    and GosRegistr                                         to utilize developed appraisal
registration system and to                                                         methodologies
encourage development of
markets in immovable
property
Operational services
Conduct a public information  National television and radio  PIU reports
campaign                   airtime; space in national and
local newspapers; number of
public information seminars
Provide cadastral index maps  Index maps in use in all  Data from registration offices,
for use at the local level  registry offices           supervision missions
Conduct systematic         600,000 properties, primarily  Data from registration offices,
registration in selected sites  in urban areas, to be entered   supervision missions
on a systematic basis relying
on conversion of BTI records
Trainine
Establish training programs   All staff of GosRegistr at the  PIU reports and supervision
for registry staff and others   rayon level receive initial  missions
contributing to the work of the training and follow-up
registration system        training in operational
procedurses
All chief registrars and
designated staff at the oblast
and national levels of
GosRegistr receive training in
the legal basis for registration
All cadastral staff of
GosRegistr at the rayon level
receive training in survey in
support of registration and
mainenance of cadastral index
maps
Project Components /       Inputs: (budget for each    Project reports:            (from Components to
Sub-components:            component)                                              Outputs)
Institutional development  $5.98 million               PIU progress reports and    Effective coordination and
supervision missions       functioning of PIU and
GosRegistr
Operational services       $4.82 million               PIU progress reports and
supervision missions       Sufficient counterpart
financing
Training                   $0.26 million               PIU progress reports and    Sufficient inter-agency
supervision missions       cooperation
-26 -



Ability to locate trust funds to
finance technical assistance
Coordination with Swiss Pilot
Project for land cadastre
Government willingness to
review and simplify existing
procedures for land and real
estate transactions
-27 -



Annex 2: Project Description
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC: Land and Real Estate Registration Project
By Component:
Project Component 1 - US$5.98 million
Institutional Development
The Project's primary output objective is to assist the development of a land market through the
establishment and maintenance of a national system of 50 fully functioning local level registration offices
that can provide reliable, timely and secure registration services.
Some staff for the new offices will be drawn from the staff of the former Bureaus of Technical Inventory
(BTIs) and the rayon offices of the former State Land Agency. Staffing numbers will vary in accordance
with the level of registration activity of each office. In accordance with the workload and income from
registration activity, new staff may be recruited or existing staff may become redundant. Staff will be
required to undertake initial testing and training that will be provided as part of the Project and pass an
examination so as to ensure their competency. Details of staffing appear below.
New premises for the local registration offices will be provided by local governments and renovated by the
Project. It is intended that the offices of the former BTIs and State Land Agency will not be used, unless
there is no other option, so that the public do not confuse GosRegister with either of these former
organizations. Refurbishment of offices will provide a more client-friendly atmosphere, in keeping with the
Project's service oriented direction.
Local registration offices will be equipped with the necessary furniture, archive shelving and at least one
computer, printer, photocopier, and fax. The numbers of such items will depend on the levels of
registration activity. To supplement their existing equipment, Bishkek office will receive 5 computers and
Osh office will receive 2. Nineteen offices, with 15 - 30 transactions per month, will receive I computer
and printer. The remaining 30 offices, with fewer than 15 transactions per month, will receive 1 computer
and printer. All offices will continue to utilize paper based records keeping in conjunction with the
computer system. Computers will be provided primarily for office work and recording information in a
simple database. In Bishkek and Osh, information system and automated systems will be further developed
utilizing their own resources. A strategy for low-cost linking of local automated databases will also be
undertaken.
Manuals, registration materials (application forms, register forms, receiving journal, files), stationery, and
registration maps will be provided to each office prior to its opening. Manuals and materials will be
standard throughout the country but the registration zone map and registration index maps will be produced
for each local office. Copies of existing maps will be utilized and no new mapping is planned for the
Project.
All offices will be inspected and certified as acceptable prior to opening. Model offices were opened by the
end of 1999 in Kant, Kara-Suu and Sokuluk, 21 further offices will be opened in 2000 and the remaining
26 offices will be opened by the end of 2001.
From the date of opening, local registration offices will carry out sporadic first registration of land parcels
and registration of secondary transactions, such as mortgages, leases and transfers. This work will be
conducted in accordance with the methods set out in the Registration Practice Manual, which was prepared
- 28 -



during Project preparation.
A Project Implementation Unit (PIU) will be established to attend to the management and implementation
of the Project, including procurement, disbursement, accounting, and reporting. It will consist of a Project
head, financial officer, procurement specialist, disbursement specialist, 1 secretary, and 1 translator. In
addition, the Project will recruit national level specialists in training (3 persons), valuation (1 person),
information technology (I person), and law (2 persons). The Project will also recruit 6 oblast level
operations specialists who will act as conduits between the national and local levels on Project
implementation issues. Two construction engineers will be hired for the first two years of implementation
to oversee the program of office repair work. The PIU will be subordinate to, and report to, the Project
Director.
The Project will finance the refurbishment of Project offices within the head office of GosRegister in
Bishkek and supply the PIU staff with furniture, computers, printers, photocopiers, faxes, telephones, 2
cars, and meet the operating, travel and utilities expenses. The Project will acquire a high volume digital
photocopier for producing registration and publicity materials and 1 small mini-bus for training purposes.
In the initial years of the Project, the national and oblast operations specialists will promote the timely and
cost effective introduction of the registration system across the country. Throughout the course of the
Project, the operations specialists will supervise, monitor and review the registration system, evaluating and
reporting on it against the key performance indicators. The oblast level specialists will have direct
responsibility for setting up local registration offices, monitoring, improving and reporting on registration
activity, particularly systematic registration, in their respective level.
In conjunction with the Project lawyers and trainers, the national level operations specialist will review
regulations, procedures and forms so as to improve and supplement them. Further, the operations
specialists will develop greater efficiency and reliability within the registration system, identify barriers to
its use, and formulate and implement means of removing or minimizing those barriers.
Training specialists will develop training programs and carry out training for both GosRegister staff and
those connected with immovable property (see below).
To facilitate registration and other activities, the national level legal specialists will develop the necessary
legislative, regulatory and procedural basis. This work will supplement the extensive work that has already
been done through the USAID pilot project of 1997 and Project preparation, which includes the enactment
of the Law on State Registration of Rights in Immovable Property, the formulation of a Practical
Registration Manual and the creation of essential forms.
Specifically, it is proposed that over the term of the Project the legal specialists will review land and other
laws and regulations so as to develop, draft and facilitate the adoption of new laws and regulations that will
facilitate Project objectives. In addition, the legal specialists will examine practical problems arising from
field work and local registration offices, including those presented by registration, cadastral and training
staff, and prepare improvements and additions to the existing procedures and forms.
The valuation/land market development specialist will work on simplifying and reducing the costs and
number of steps in the land transaction process, removing obstacles to land market development,
formulating and implementing a market based valuation methodology, and advising on the development of a
fiscal cadastre through the ownership database created by the Project.
- 29 -



Working with Project specialists, Government agencies, notaries and real estate professionals, the valuation
specialist will revise the land transaction process in terms of the legal requirements, functions of notaries
and requirements for physical inventory of properties and inspections, formulate more efficient methods,
negotiate their acceptance and implementation. This work will be closely tied to the fees and taxes involved
in the land transaction process, particularly in relation to the promotion of financing of local government
activity through a property tax, which is hoped will replace the current 7% transactions tax. In addition,
the valuation specialist will develop a public awareness strategy and series of workshops.and seminars for
real estate professionals will be conducted so as to enhance the development of a land market.
A further major task of the valuation specialist will be to develop a fiscal cadastre in coordination with the
Ministry of Finance. The valuation specialist will examine the current methodology for valuation, such as
that used by the former BTIs, and make recommendations for improving the quality and market-orientation
of them. Local government will be included in this process through regional seminars and workshops, with
the goal being consensus on the revised methodologies and their adoption at the local level. Subsequently,
the valuation specialist will advise on the utilization of the immovable property ownership data base that
will result from Project registration activity for the purpose of making valuations.
Project Component 2 - US$4.82 million
Operational Services
The operational services component of the Project is directed at providing the immovable property
ownership information to GosRegister and public awareness that will be necessary for the registration
processes to operate effectively. Specifically, this component deals with the collection of existing data,
creation of registration maps, gathering of land information through systematic registration, which will be
largely a process of converting existing data, supplemented by field work where necessary, and conducting
public awareness campaigns.
Data collection and creation of registration zone and registration index maps will take place prior to the
opening of each office. Local office staff will transfer base data on land ownership from the former BTIs
and State Land Agencies to the new system. In addition, they will locate and collect land ownership data
from other organizations, such as the local council, state property fund, and architects office, that hold
records relating to land ownership. This data will be archived at the local registration office and used in the
process of sporadic and systematic registration in accordance with the regulation and practice manual.
Creation of the registration zone and registration index maps that indicate land parcel locations will be a
one off activity. Each of the 50 local registration offices will receive 1:10000 maps for rural areas and
1:2000 maps for urban areas. The maps will be based on existing maps that will be copied and, where
necessary (rural settlement areas), scanned, digitized and enlarged to an appropriate scale. It was
determnined during Project preparation that existing base maps, though frequently 8-25 years old, would be
adequate for the purposes of the new registration system. Copies of these maps were made during Project
preparation. Use of the existing maps will greatly reduce the costs of the Project and start-up of the new
registration system.
In a number of areas, however, the information on the registration index maps will be inadequate or out of
date, particular in urban areas. To supplement the map informnation, local office staff will carry out ground
surveys during the processes of sporadic registration (where such information is essential to allow
registration) and in systematic registration (as a matter of course). In both cases, ground survey will not
be a full cadastral survey. Rather, it will be a quick and approximate method to identify the locality (eg
- 30 -



settlement) and land parcel road frontages - there will be no coordinates. Ground survey will be limited to
the minimum that is necessary to ensure that there are no gaps, overlaps and to create a graphic
representation of the immovable property units.
While no new mapping is planned, discussions are underway with the Swiss Government, which has been
involved with a Pilot Land Cadastre project in the Kyrgyz Republic, on possible co-financing of new base
maps for Bishkek and immediately surrounding territory, Osh, and Jalalahbad. Such mapping would
greatly assist both sporadic and systematic registration in the most active land market, particularly in light
of the sizeable expansion of the city since mapping was last done.
Under the operational services component, the Project will carry out systematic registration of immovable
property units.  Under this process, land parcel ownership and boundaries will be systematically
investigated, considered and determiined, results will be publicized during a 90 day viewing period, and
records will be created. Records will show ownership and secondary rights (such as mortgages) in the
Register and the location of the land parcel on a registration index map. Finally, a copy of the Register for
each immovable property unit will be available to the owner.
Consultants will be contracted for systematic registration work. They will be based in the local registration
office. Initial observations arising from investigations made during Project preparation indicate that there
will be 5 types of situations confronting the adjudication staff - 3 where no survey is necessary: simple,
difficult and complex conversion; and 2 where ground survey is necessary: simple survey and complex
survey. It is expected that registration for the majority of immovable property units, particularly in
Bishkek, will be a matter of simple conversion requiring no survey. Systematic registration will be carried
out following two approaches. Under the first, GosRegistr will hire individuals and manage them directly
in conducting the work. Under the second, the work will be tendered to firms that will be responsible for
providing staff to do the work. Under both approaches, staff will receive training in methodology for
systematic registration as designed for the Project under the appropriate training programs included under
Component 3. At present there are no firms in Kyrgyzstan oriented to carrying out this work. Under the
PPF for the Project, the approach of tendering this work to firms is being piloted to demonstrate the
viability of this approach. To the extent that this proves viable, its use under the Project will be
maximized.
Due to its land market activity, registration of immovable property in Bishkek will commence in the early
phase of the Project. Elsewhere, systematic registration will be introduced in order of relative value of the
land parcels and activity in the land market, with Osh, Kant, Jalalabad and Kara-Suu amongst the first
areas to be registered. It is estimated that 400,000 properties will be registered by conversion action and
200,000 by conversion action and field survey.
The final aspect of the operational services component is the public awareness and publicity campaigns.
There will be publicity and public awareness: for the new registration system and for systematic
registration. For both types, publicity and public awareness campaigns will be conducted nationally,
regionally and locally. The campaigns will be coordinated by the operational specialists and public
relations secretary of GosRegsiter under the direction of the Project Director, assisted by local office staff
for the regional and local campaigns. Publicity will be critical to public support for sporadic and
systematic registration and to ensure that the viewing period is an effective means of verifying registration
work.
The publicity campaign for the new registration system will explain the procedures, costs and benefits to
the public. The Project will utilize television, both advertisements and documentaries, radio, newspaper,
- 31 -



billboards, booklets, pamphlets, posters, bus advertising, street signs, public meetings, and signs on
GosRegsiter vehicles. Campaigns directed at the public will occur progressively and will coincide with the
opening of offices.
The campaign for systematic registration will provide similar information and encourage land owners to
cooperate with registration staff. These campaigns will use some of the above means of advertising (as are
appropriate in the circumstances) and be conducted prior to the commencement of registration activity.
Project Component 3 - US$ 0.26 million
Training
The third component to the Project is training, comprising the establishment of training centers, training of
local registration office staff and systematic registration staff, training for private sector real estate
professionals, and the creation courses to meet long term needs.
The first Project objective in this regard is to establish fully functioning permanent training centers in Kant
and Osh. These centers will provide the initial and ongoing in-service training of Registration office staff
and personnel involved in the Project, in sporadic registration, systematic registration, and topography. A
training specialist will be permanently located at each center and will provide training under the guidance of
a national level training specialist. The trainers will draw on other specialists, from within GosRegister and
from outside organizations, to give additional lectures.
The content of the courses has been developed during the Project preparation phase. The centers will
combine theoretical and practical training, including computer use, and utilize nearby local GosRegister
office for hands on training.
Staff will be tested, trained and examined so as to ensure that they meet the requisite levels for carrying out
registration and other work. It is intended that local registration office staff will receive training over 6
days in sporadic registration and a 1 day refresher course every 6 months. Systematic registration staff
will receive a 6 day course in how to conduct systematic adjudication. Topographers will be trained for 5
days in ground survey for making base maps or 15 days if they are to use electronic tacheometers.
Training will be most intense during PY 1 and PY2 as the staff of each of the offices are hired. It is planned
that 300 staff will be training in sporadic registration, 500 staff will be trained in systematic registration,
and 200 staff will be trained in survey work.
Design of appropriate courses and conduct of training for the other government agencies, particularly local
government, judges, notaries and other real estate professionals will also be conducted during the Project.
These courses will develop awareness of the new system of registration and develop greater efficiency in
the land market. In conjunction with universities, the Project training specialists will investigate the future
needs of GosRegister and the private sector real estate industry, such as lawyers, topographers, property
valuers and management specialists, so as to develop long term training programs.
- 32 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC: Land and Real Estate Registration Project
i   Local       Foreign        Total
Project Cost By Component                US $million   US $mi      US $million
Institutional Development                                 3.62          1.49         5.11
Operational Servrices                                     4.09          0.00         4.09
ITraining                                                  0.22         0.00         0.22
Refinancing of PPF                                        0.00          0.77         0.77
Total Baseline Cost                                       7.93          2.26        10.19
Physical Contingencies                                   0.79          0.15         0.94
Price Contingencies                                      0.63          0.07         0.70
Total Project Costs              9.35         2.48         11.83
Total Financing Required               9.35         2.48         11.83
Local   I  Foreign        Total
Projct Cost Py Ca!tegry                 13U $million j US $million   US $million
IGoods                                                       1.14          0.85         1.99
[Works                                                      0.20           0.00         0.20
|Consultant Services and Training                           5.55           0.87         6.42
Incremental Operating Costs                                 2.46          0.00          2.46
|Refinancing of PPF                                         0.00           0.77         0.77
Total Project Costsl    9.35           2.49        11.84
Total Financing Required      9.35          2.49         11.84
- 33 -



Annex 4
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC: Land and Real Estate Registration Project
Economic Analysis Summary
A reliable and efficient system for verifying rights in immovable property is an important aspect of
well-functioning market economies. The main benefits cited for such a system include the following:
* increased security of tenure, which can reduce disincentives to invest in land and real estate
* increased access to credit, by removing constraints to, and reducing the costs of, both long-term and
working capital
* improved functioning of sales and long-term lease markets for land and real estate
* improved information base for the fiscal and land administration cadastres
A schematic representation of the workings of the first three with respect to agricultural land, as
presented by Stefano Pagiola in "Economic Analysis of Rural Land Administration Projects" is as follows:
Potential Benefits of Land Titling
| Titled land   l
|Greater security  ||Greater security  |M sore efficient|
to farmers    |                    olnders                       F |land mnarkets |
Increased demand          Increased supply    Increased supply
for investment             of cheaper          of cheaper
long-term credit    short-term credit
More investme
Increased demand
for variable inputs
Greater use of
variable inputs
Higher output per hectare
Higher income     |             Higher land prices
- 34 -



Realization of these potential benefits for any specific project is dependent on the broader
economic, social, and legal context applying in the country in question.
In the case of the Kyrgyz Republic, Government has been undertaking a major land reform effort
in rural areas, issuing land certificates to the majority of rural inhabitants within the last five years. These
documents apply not only to the traditional household plots in villages, but to shares of arable land and
orchards that were traditionally held in common or State ownership in collective and state farms. Available
information points to concerns among the rural population about their ability to maintain these new land
rights in the face of powerful local government and the management elite of the former collective and state
farms. In urban areas, ownership to land remains clouded, with the rights of land holders vis a vis
municipal government poorly defined. This concerns primarily commercial real estate and land associated
with condominiums. The proposed Project will combine with the land component of the Agriculture
Support Services Project in rural areas. The latter is assisting the process of issuing land certificates to
rural inhabitants. The Land and Real Estate Project will ensure that functioning registries are in place to
protect the rights granted by those certificates. In urban areas, the Land and Real Estate Project will
undertake systematic registration of properties, including clarification of land parcel boundaries for
condominiums and enterprises.
The financial system in the Kyrgyz Republic remains underdeveloped at present, therefore the
collateral effects of the Project are expected to be relatively weak in the short to medium term. The Bank is
working, however, to get rural financial markets moving through the Rural Finance I and II Projects. The
proposed Project will assist that effort. Clarification of title will assist in this effort as well as stimulating
borrowing against immovable property in urban areas.
Transactions costs with land and real estate are high, due in large part to the uncertainty of title
discussed above. Another reason is the presence of excessive and ill-coordinated regulations associated
with these transactions, most of which were inherited from the pre-reform period. These regulations
include the need to conduct a full physical inventory of real estate as part of each transaction. Analysis of
available data shows that by simplification and better coordination of these regulations alone, transactions
costs can be reduced by 40 percent.
The project will provide benefits in other areas in the form of improved information. The
systematic registration activity, to be undertaken primarily in urban areas, will provide a significant source
of information for the fiscal cadastre. The Project will also provide assistance in the development of more
market-oriented property valuation methodologies. Tax on immovable property will need to become a
larger source of revenue for municipal government in the future if the decline in municipal services
witnessed over the last decade is to be stabilized and reversed. The Land and Real Estate Project will
provide information necessary for the effective functioning of such a system. However, the realization of
these potential benefits will depend on Govemment's willingness to augment the existing rural land tax with
a tax on real property in urban areas. Cadastral information generated by the Project will also be of use in
land administration and land use planning, primarily in the urban and peri-urban areas.
Costs of the registration system financed by this Project will be minimized as a result of full
utilization of existing data. No base mapping will be undertaken. Rather, use will be made of existing base
maps, which have been found to be suitable for the purposes of registration. Furthermore, there are
extensive land and real estate databases available in the former BTIs and land agency offices that will be
drawn on in the process of systematic registration. Because of this, systematic registration under the
Project will have a relatively large data conversion aspect. The estimated cost per property for systematic
registration under the Project is estimated to be roughly one-eighth the US$34-40 figure for the Second
Thailand Land Titling Project. Costs of the registration offices themselves has also been minimized by
setting reasonable threshold for paper versus automated data bases.
- 35 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC: Land and Real Estate Registration Project
Years Ending
December 31
L i l i l '   K   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _11     I I I
L__I Year1    Year 2     Year 3      Year4      Year 5     Year 6       ear7
[Total Financing Required
IProjectCosts
Investment Costs             1.3         2.1        2.0         1.6       I1.          0.5       0.0
Recurrent Costs               0.1        0.4         0.5        0.5         0.6        0.3        0.0
bTotal Project Costs            1.4        2.5         2.5        2.1         1.7        0.8        0.0
Total Financing                14         2.5        2.5         2.1         1.7        0.8        0.0
Financing
IBRD/IDA                     1.2        2.0         2.0        1.7         1.2       0.6         0.0
Government                   0.2        0.5         0.5        0.4         0.5       0.2         0.0 !
Central                  0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0 
Provincial               0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
Co-financiers                0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0       0.0         0.0
User Fees1Beneficiaries      0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0       0.0         0.0
Others                       0.0        0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0       0.0         0.0
Total Project Financing        1.4        2.5         2.5        2.1        17        0.8         0.0
Main assumptions:
Government contributions consist of: (i) the premises, staff and utilities of the registration offices; (ii) an
increasing share of expenditures on PIIJ operating costs and the costs of equipment maintenance and office
supplies for the registration offices; and (iii) duties and taxes.
- 36 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC: Land and Real Estate Registration Project
Procurement
Procurement of works and goods will be carried out in accordance with World Bank Guidelines:
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (January 1995, revised January and August 1996,
September 1997, and January 1999). The Borrower will use the Bank's standard bidding docurnents for
goods and works, including the Bank's regional sample NCB documents. Recruitment of consultants will
be in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers (January 1997, revised September 1997 and January 1999). For consulting assignments the
Borrower will use the standard Bank forms of contract and request for proposals. Any goods, works or
services not financed by IDA will be procured in accordance with the public procurement regulations. A
General Procurement Notice was published in UN Development Business February 29, 2000.
Responsibility for all procurement under the Project will rest with the PIU, which is already in
place and undertaking procurement operations in connection with a PHRD Grant. The PIU has a full-time
staff member to handle these activities. A civil engineer will be hired for the first two years of the Project
to oversee technical aspects of preparing contracts for refurbishment of office premises. The PIU will also
have experts in computer tecnology and survey equipment to assist in procurement of these items.
Information regarding procurement administration will be provided to IDA by the PMU. These reports will
include: (i) revised cost estimates for individual contracts and the project as a whole; (ii) revised timing of
procurement actions and completion time; (iii) an updated procurement plan; and (iv) compliance with
aggregate limits on specific methods of procurement.
The PIU will be responsible, inter alia, for:
the procurement of works, goods and services financed under the project,
the management of project accounts, including loan withdrawals, disbursements from the Special
Account as well as financial accounting, auditing       and reporting procedures acceptable to
IDA;
the monitoring of project implementation and the preparation of quarterly reports to the Bank;
Procurement Capacity of the proposed PIU. A procurement assessment has been carried out. The PPU
has been implementing a Japanese Grant, involving procurement of both foreign and local consultants, and
procurement of goods in accordance with procedures for National Shopping. The procurement specialist in
the PPU has had some prior experience on IDA projects and general familiarity with IDA procurement
guidelines, is fluent in English, and is prepared to improve his procurement skills. A plan of action has
been identified that will include additional training for him in procurement procedures (see Procurement
Assessment for full program). The Procurement Launch Workshop, tentatively scheduled for June to
precede anticipated project effectiveness in July/August, will contain a special session on procurement to
review Bank guidelines and the procedures to be used under the Project. The level of risk can be assessed
as high due to the lack of large experience in procurement. However, it is reconimended that after a year of
functioning the procurement capacity of the PIU and, consequently, the level of risk be subject to revision.
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every six months for the first year of
implementation followed by one every twelve monlths (includes special procurement supervision for
- 37 -



post-review/audits) contingent on satisfactory perfonnance of the PIU in the first year.
Procurement methods (Table A)
Minor Civil Works: the Credit will finance office rehabilitation for the offices of GosRegistr involved in
project implementation. This stems from the need to co-locate the former BTIs and land agency offices in
accordance with the Govermnent regulation establishing GosRegistr. The average value of these contracts
will be approximately US $50,000, with no contract exceeding US $100,000. The contracts will be issued
in accordance with the procedures established for Minor Civil Works contracts up to an aggregate amount
not to exceed US $300,000. They may be procured by requesting at least three price quotations from local
qualified contractors in the Kyrgyz Republic. Simplified bid invitations based on Bank sample bidding
documents with the appropriate changes agreed with the Bank shall provide the necessary description of the
works, including technical specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of agreement and
relevant designs and drawings where applicable. A list of qualified contractors should be formed -and
periodically updated-- by the PIU by requesting at least every six months expressions of interest and
relevant information from local contractors while advertising local minor civil works contract opportunities.
Fixed-price contracts will be awarded to lowest responsive bidders.
Goods: ICB procedures will be used for contracts with estimated value of US$100,000 and above
(computer systems, vehicles, survey equipment). NCB procedures may be used for contracts with
estimated value of less than US$100,000 (office furniture and equipment) up to an aggregate amount not to
exceed US$300,000. Intemational Shopping procedures (IS) may be used for contracts with estimated
value of less than US$100,000 (vehicles), with an aggregate amount not to exceed US$100,000. National
Shopping will be allowed for contracts with an estimated value of less than US$50,000 not to exceed an
aggregate limit of US$400,000.
Consultant Services: Consultants financed under the Project would be selected in accordance with the Bank
consultant guidelines. (i) Consultants to the PIU, including trainers, would be selected as individual
consultants. Existing consultants of the PPU that were originally selected on a competitive basis will have
their existing contracts extended, contingent upon satisfactory perfornance reviews (total cost US$ 1.05
million). Individuals will be hired to carry out systematic registration under the manangement of
GosRegistr. These positions will be filled on the basis of approved terms of reference and in accordance
with meeting minimurn thresholds for education, experience and health. These opportunities will be
announced by GosRegistr by advertising in the national press seeking expressions of interest and hiring
decisions made following satisfaction of minimum thresholds and on the basis of interviews with
GosRegistr. Government employees will not be eligible for these positions (total cost US$1.63 million).
(ii) Firms will be hired on the basis of QCBS to conduct the publicity campaign for the registration system,
and a real estate market development specialist will be hired on the basis of QCBS to assist the PIU (total
cost US$408,000). (iii) Firms will be hired to conduct annual audits of the Project and to undertake
systematic registration on the basis of Least Cost Selection (total cost US$1.75 million). (iv) A firn will
be hired under CQ procedures to undertake a study of Information Technology Strategies for the
registration system (total cost US$20,000).
Operating expenses: The Credit will finance, on a declining basis, the incremental operating costs of the
PIU and the national apparatus of GosRegistr to coordinate and administer the Project, and equipment
maintenance costs for equipment procured under the Project (total cost US$487,000).
- 38 -



Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category           ICB                         otNC  Oher"    N.B.F.      Total Cost
1. Works                           0.00           0.00          0.20           0.00          0.20
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.16)         (0.00)        (0.16)
2. Goods                           1.23           0.25          0.51           0.00          1.99
(0.98)        (0.20)        (0.41)         (0.00)         (1.59)
3. Services                        0.00           0.00          6.42           0.00          6.42
and Training                      (0.00)         (0.00)        (6.42)         (0.00)        (6.42)
4. Incremental Operating           0.00           0.00          0.67           1.79          2.46
Costs
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.49)         (0.00)         (0.49)
5. Refinancing of PPF 3/           0.00           0.00          0.77           0.00          0.77
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.77)         (0.00)         (0.77)
Total                           1.23           0.25          8.57           1.79          11.84
(0.98)        (0.20)        (8.25)         (0.00)         (9.43)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies
2 Includes civil works and goods to be procured through procedures for minor works, national and
international shopping, consulting services, training, and incremental operating costs related to
managing the project and maintenance of equipment procured under the Project.
3/ Includes civil works and goods to be procured though procedures for minor works, and national shopping, and
consultant services.
- 39 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
All ICB contracts for goods, and the first two contracts in accordance with procedures for Minor Civil
Works, regardless of their value, would be subject to prior IDA review. The first two contracts for goods
in accordance with NCB, IS and NS procedures would be subject to prior review.
For consultant services, prior review by IDA would be required for all terms of reference irrespective of
estimated contract value. For contracts greater than US$200,000 with firns, the technical reports will be
submitted to IDA for its review prior to the opening of financial proposals. Financial proposals will be
opened in public only after IDA's no-objection to the technical report and the final combined evaluation
report will be subject to IDA's no objection. For contracts greater than US$10,000 and less than
US$200,000 with firms, IDA will be notified of the results of the technical evaluation prior to the opening
of the financial proposals. The full evaluation report will then be submitted to IDA for review and
no-objection. For all contracts greater than US$25,000 for individual consultants, the CVs, terms of
reference, and terms of employment will be subject to prior review.
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review'
Contract Value                                Ctrcs Sbett
Threshold-             Procurement             Prior Review
tExpenitur Ctueor         (UtUsands)$ M                                     (USS millions) i
1. Works                        <100               Minor Civil Works              0.1
2. Goods                        >100                     ICB                      1.23
<100, >50                 NCB                      0.15
<100, >50                  IS                      0.10
<50                     NS                      0.08
3. Services                     >200                    QCBS                     0.41
<200                    LCS                      2.07
<50                     CQ                      0.02
N/A             Individual consultants           1.05
4. Miscellaneous
5. Miscellaneous
6. Miscellaneous
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:   5.21
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
High
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every six months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
The procurement assessment for the Project is one of the documents included in the negotiations package.
Post review will be conducted for 1 in 5 contracts.
Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
-40-



Disbursement
Allocation of credit proceeds (Table C)
The Project will be implemented over a five year period. The proposed closing date for the Credit is
December 31, 2005. This timeframe is considered reasonable given the existence of the PPU and ex-pat
assistance in preparing procurement documents. Disbursements until December 31, 2002 are expected to
be on the basis of existing procedures, and would thereafter be against the Project Management Report
(PMR).
Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Expenditure Catego _           ount in US$million I      Financing Percentage
Works                                      0.16                         80 %
Goods                                      1.59          100 % of foreign expenditures; 100 % of
local expenditures (ex-factory costs); and
80% of other items procured locally
Consultant services and training           6.42                         100 %
Incremental operating costs                0.49          Decliining basis beginning with 100 % in
the first year of the Project
Refinancing of PPF                         0.77
Total Project Costs                        9.43
Total                                      9.43
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
The following disbursements would be made against certified Statements of Expenditures: (i) goods under
contracts costing less than US$ 100,000 each; (ii) works under contracts costing less than US$100,000
each; (iii) expenditures associated with training; (iv) services under contracts costing less than US$100,000
each for finns and US$25,000 each for individual consultants; and, (v) eligible incremental operating costs,
under such terms and conditions as the IDA shall specify. Supporting documentation for SOE's will be
retained by the PIU and made available to IDA during supervision.
Special account:
To facilitate disbursements against eligible expenditures, the Government will establish in a commercial
bank a Special Account (SA) to be operated by the PIU under tenns and conditions satisfactory to IDA.
IDA would upon request, make an authorized allocation of US$400,000. Initially the allocation would be
limited to US$200,000 until disbursements have reached 3.0 million SDR, at which time the full authorized
allocation could be claimed. Applications for replenishment of the SA would be submitted monthly or
when 20 percent of the initial deposit has been utilized, whichever occurs earlier. The replenishment
application would be supported by necessary documentation, the SA bank statement, and a reconcilliation
of this bank statement. The SA would be audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to IDA.
- 41 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC: Land and Real Estate Registration Project
Poec Scedl                                         Plne                         Actua
(At final PCD stage)
Time taken to prepare the project (months)                                    30
First Bank mission (identification)             04/15/97                      04/15/97
Appraisal mission departure                      10/29/99                     10/21/99
Negotiations                                     01/24/2000                   04/20/2000
Planned Date of Effectiveness                    06/30/2000
Prepared by:
State Agency for Registration
Preparation assistance:
PHRD Grant of US$ 452,000; PPF of $775,000
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                    CSpeciality 
Asyl Undeland                     Operations officer
Edward Cook                       Task team leader
Kanagasabai Loganathan            Financial management specialist
Alma Zhandauletova                Financial management officer
Jose Martinez                     Procurement specialist
Nikolai Soubbotin                 Legal counsel
Maurizio Ragazzi                  Legal counsel
Robert Buckley                    Peer reviewer
Lynn Holstein                     Peer reviewer
Stan Peabody                      Social assessment advisor
Hannah Koilpillai                 Disbursement officer
Joseph Goldberg                   Sector leader/quality assurance
Valeri Tian                       Operations officer
Mohammed Nawaz                    Legal counsel
-42 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC: Land and Real Estate Registration Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
Revised version incorporating IDA comments following Appraisal Mission.
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Preliminary Financial Management Assessment, filed by Alma Zhandauletov, Sept. 5, 1999
Social Assessment Report, Oct. 31, 1999
C. Other
GIS/Cadastre Project Kyrgyzstan -- Final Report, Thomas Wuthrich, Grunder Ingenieure AG, Dec. 15,
1998 (Swiss Aid Project)
Real Estate Management Action Plan (REMAP) Final Report, Dec. 1997 (USAID Pilot Project)
Draft regulation on fees for state registration of rights to immovable property
Training Program- Kant, September 1999
Draft regulation for cadastral surveying and mapping
Government regulation on the Establishment of GosRegistr, Feb. 22, 1999
Draft regulation on procedures for state registration of rights to immovable property
Manual on registration of rights to immovable property
*Including electronic files
-43 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC: Land and Real Estate Registration Project
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions          disbursements
Project ID    FY   Borrower                       Purpose                               IBRO       IDA         Cancel.   Undisb.       Orig  Frm Rev'd
KG-PE-3856    1999 GOVT. OF KYRGYZ           SOCIAL SEC. ADJUST.                           0.00      36.50         0.00       17.87     -0.40      0.00
9             1999 REPUBLIC                  FLOOD EMERGENCY                               0.00       10.00        0.00       9.42       1.01      0.00
KG-PE-6268   1999 KYRGYZ REPUBLIC            RURAL FINANCE II                              0.00       15.00        0.00      14.85       0.00      0.00
2             1998 GOVERNMENT OF KYRGYZ  AGRIC. SUPPORT. SERV                              0.00       14.98        0.00      14.03       1.15      0.00
KG-PE-6458   1998 GOVT. OF KYRGYZ           IRRIGATION REHAB.                              0.00      35.00         0.00      31.12      -1.00      0.00
5             I997 REPUBLIC                  RURAL FINANCE                                 0.00       16.00        0.00        3,88     -4.18      0.00
KG-PE-4072    1996 GOVT. OF THE KYRGYZ       FINANCIAL SEC. TECH.                          0.00       3.40         0.00        1.51      1.56      0.00
1             1996 REPUB                     SHEEP & WOOL IMPROV.                          0.00       11.60        0.00       6.50       2.06      0.00
KG-PE4604    1996 KYRGYZ REPUBLIC            POWER & DIST. HEAT                            0.00       35.00        0.00       30.72     12.39     20.56
2             1996 THE KYRGYZ REPUBLIC       HEALTH                                        0.00       18.50        0.00        4.70     -1.34      0.00
KG-PE-8520    1995 GOVT OF KYRGYZ            PRIV. ENTERP. SUPP.                           0.00       15.00        0.00       12.66     12.67      0.00
KG-PE-4563         GOVT. OF KYRGYZ
1                  REPUBLIC
KG-PE-8513         GOVT OF KYRGYZ
KG-PE-8519         REPUBLIC
KG-PE-8523         GOVT OF KYRGHYZSTAN
KG-PE-8524
Total.       0.00      210.98        0.00      147.26     23.92     20.56
- 44 -



KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
3 1-Jul-1999
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                         Disbursed
IFC                              IFC
FY Approval         Company                        Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic    Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic
1995                Kumtor Gold                   25.00    10.00    0.00     0.00   25.00    10.00     0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:        25,00    10.00    0.00     0.00   25.00    10.00     0.00    0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval        Company                            Loan    Equity     Quasi    Partic
Total Pending Commitment:          0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
-45 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC: Land and Real Estate Registration Project
Europ. &
POVEIRTY,and SOCIAL                                    Kyrgyx    Censtral      Low-                                       -
Republic       AsWIa  Incom         Development diamond'
Pop,vlation, mnla.year (mlllionV_)                          4~       47       34                      Life expectancy
GNP per capita(fAtlas mnethod., US$)                      35        21190       520
ANP (Alasmefhoo%lS$ bilfions                               1.7           1,09 1844,
Aviiiai, anniualtgreiwith, 19*2.98
~Popiolbtion ()0.7                                                   0DA         1.
Laborlorce%                                                1.t        0.6        1.       GNP                                Gross
per                               primary
Moat r,celit estImate (latest yeer avaIlable, 199Z-98~~            capita                         enrollment
Lirban population (96 oltofal popuf at ion)  .40        66        31
Life expect ~~~~sl~~ birth (years) ~~~67                69s       6
Infant nrortality (per 1,000 liv piftlls   ~~28,       23         69
Access tosafe water (% of popuJ8fi ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~      ~     ~    ~ ~ Acces 7osafewa74
Gross primay enrollmen  fcitfuiafr   97        4         32                 Kyrgyz Republic
Male                                   106        101~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o  113         Low-income group
Female                                   ~~~~        ~~~     ~~~~~~~~~~~103  99 ,103
KEYECO4OMG  ATIOS40n0LONGe8RIM TRENDS
1978      1986~      1997       19918
Economic ratios*
GOP (US$ billios)                                  .                  1.8        1.68
Gr~oss domestic investment/GDIP                             .,       217        110.0Trd
Exports of 900o15 and services1GDP                          ,.       383       37.0Trd
Grossdomestic savings/GDP                                    -.      13.0     .10.
Desa national saWngs/GDP                                   .,       13,9     -12.6
Courentaccount batanoietGOP                                 .        -7,8  ~.-22.6
lntervist paym4nts!GOP~                                              3.7        4        Dmeti                         Investment
!ot0(Ideb1lGD*:,.                                                    8.         969       Savings
TOtal debti servlcelexports                                  .       1.         18;6
Present' value of debtiGOP                         ..       .         76~
Prsetvaluio4(debtitexpqrts                     .         .       9.
Indebtedness
1976-86  198-9        1997       -1998   1999-03
(#vermge apnual grnWeb)
ao9~~           ..       7.2      9.9         1.8       2.0             '' ~~~~~Kyrgyz Republic
GN-P per capita                                  8 .7 t    8.7       -2.0        2,                     Low-income group
8tprsogossdevks                                  5.2~  20.1         -11.5        2.0O
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1976     1986       1997       1998       Growth rates of output and Investment(%
(96 of G3DP)                                                                             40
Agriculture                                        .        ..       44.6       43.6
Industry                                           .        ..       22.8       21.6     20-
Manufacturing                                    .         ..      17.9       18.9          
Private consumption                                .        ..       69.9       93.6     r
General government consumption                     .        ..       16.3       17.3                  _GD         ---GDP
Imports of goods and services                      .        ..       46.2       58.0
1976-86  1987-98       1997       1998
(average annual growth,)                                                                 Growth rates of exports and imports (%)
Agriculture                                        .                  7.0        6.0     40 
Industry                                           .        ..        5.0        5.0     20
ManufacturingD
Services                                           .        ..       20.2       -2. 6    2        3    '
Pr'ivate consumption                                                                        '
General government consumption                     ..0.
Gross domestic investment                                                                 0
Imports of goods and services                      .        ..       11.7       27.7                ' Exports      -0Imports
Gross national product                            L.
Note: 1998 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.
-46 -



Kyrgyz Republic
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Domestic prices                               1976     1986       1997      1998     Inflation (%)
(% change)                                                                           1.200-    C
Consumer prices                                                   14.7      18.4      900
Implicit GDP deflator                                             19.3       8.5      600
Government finance                                                                    300
(% of GDP, inciudes current grants)                                                     0
Current revenue                                  .15.8                      18.1              93   94   a5   96   97   96
Current budget balance                                            -5.2      -3.4             -     GDP deflator    eCPl
Overall surplus/deficit (accrual)                                 -9.0    -10.0
TRADE
(US$ millions)                                1976     1986      1997      1998      Export and import levels (USS millions)
Total exports (fob)                                                631       535     1.000
Electric energy                                                   83        26
Gold and gold products                                           185       192       750
Manufactures                                                     204       181
Total imports (cif)                                                725      870       600         i        id         '
Food                                           .         .        87        89       250
Fuel and energy                                                   87200    207
Capital goods                                  .         ..      123       173 
Export price index (1995=100)                   ..        ..        97        94           92   93  94   95  95  97
Import price index (1995=100)                   ..        ..        97       94                r Exports     * Imports
Termsoftrade(1995=100)                          ..        ..       100       100
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1976     1986      1997      1998      Current account balance to GDP ratio (%)
(US$ millions)
Exports of goods and services                                     676       598       0
Imports of goods and services                    .        ..       817      936
Resource balance                                                    1       96-141  -338              l
Net income                                                         -65       -76      10
Net current transfers                                               68        50
Current account balance                                           -138      -365
Financing items (net)                            -        -        221       359
Changes in net reserves                                            -83         6     -25
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)           ..       ..       200       194
Conversion rate (DEC, locallUS$)                  -        -
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1976     1986      1997      1998
(US$ millions)                                                                        Composition of total debt, 1998 (USS millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed                             1,444     1,565
IBRD                                                              0         0                         G1
IDA                                                             267       333
Total debt service                                                  81       112           F:366
IBRD                                           .        .          0        0
IDA.                                                               2        2
Composition of net resource flows                                                                                     C 180
Official grants                                                   65       48
Official creditors                             -                 172      225
Private creditors                                        -         8       -26                           9S?
Foreign direct investment                                         83       102            E:406
Portfolio equity                                                  25        26                               D:265
World Bank program
Commitments                                                       60       102     A- IBRD                      E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                                     66       66      B - IDA    D - Other multilateral  F Psvate
Principal repayments                                               0         0    IC-IMF                        G-Short-termm
Net flows                                                        66        66
Interest payments                                                  2         2
Net transfers                                           -        66        66
Development Economics                                                                                                   9/22/99
- 47 -



Additional
Annex No.: 11
KYRGYZ RIEPUBLIC: Land and Real Estate Registration Project
Social Assessment
Introduction
The transition to a market economy in the Kyrgyz Republic and other countries of the former
Soviet Union involves the creation of new property relations on the level of individuals and
institutions. Most critical and far-reaching are the transfer and/or selling of land and property
(especially homes) to individuals and new private enterprises. In the earlier stages of this process,
property was transferred to individuals but land remained under state ownership and individuals
and enterprises were granted long-term, transferable use-rights. As a result of a referendum in
late 1998, the Kyrgyz Republic is about to start the process of issuing ownership rights, as well.
The social assessment (SA) is intended to give voice to the constraints of stakeholders to ensure
that the land registration process reflects their needs.
Methodology
The SA team used a survey questionnaire and three principal research methods to gather
data: focus groups, in depth-interviews of clients and officials, and participant observation.
After completing preliminary analysis of the field data, the SA Team conducted a
stakeholders' workshop.
The SA focused primarily on clients of the land registration system and the people and agencies
with whom they interact. The experience, expectations, and attitudes of clients were compared
along a number of dimensions: rural/urban; north/south/mountains; registered/non-registered;
direct/indirect interests in the system.
Given limited time and resources, the team carried out the SA in five locations (Bishkek city, Osh,
Naryn, Sokuluk, and Uzgen region) using three stratification dimensions and all three research
methods.
The Institute for Regional Studies organized a stakeholders' workshop on the Land Registration
Project on November 1, 1999. The workshop was a vehicle for verifying the findings of the
survey and focus groups and disseminating information to potential clients.
- 48 -



Identification of Stakeholders
The number of individuals and groups demanding proper land and real estate registration
in Kyrgyzstan is increasing, but there are serious problems of inter-agency competition.
Despite extensive privatization of housing and significant progress in privatization of enterprises,
real estate markets in urban areas remain underdeveloped. Clients face a weak macro-economic
situation with increasing poverty, complicated transactions procedures, lack of supporting
institutional infrastructure, and unclear title. Lack of money to cover registration costs is a serious
problem, particularly severe among the rural population. As a result, many buildings in rural areas
are not yet registered.
Some roles of the Land Agency and the Bureaus of Technical Inventory (BTIs) have changed
during the transition, but their overall functions have remained much the same as they were in the
Soviet period. Both the Land Agency and the BTIs are demand driven agencies, and their volume
of work has been less than anticipated. Many people never request Land Acts, and the BTIs
continues to register real estate transactions, but their role needs to be adjusted in the context of
the Law on Registration, passed in November 1998.
In February 1999, the State Agency for Registration (Gosregistr) was established, with the
intention of opening branch offices in oblasts and raions. Gosregistr is the main institutional
beneficiary, with financial resources to operate and technical support to strengthen its capacity. It
has incorporated the staff and functions of the BTIs, the Land Agency, and GosKartografia (the
main civilian mapping agency), and it has developed three new administrations: Registration,
Management and Geodetic Services.
Officials at different levels, from the central govermuent to villages, strongly support project
objectives. They want to make land and real estate registration available to clients, although their
enthusiasm may be directed toward specific enterprises or individuals. Architects from the state
organization Glavarhitektura believe they are marginalized in this reforn, that Glavarhitectura
was an important actor in land and real estate registration, but will not benefit in this project.
Notaries are also crucial in real estate registration, but they do not want to be subordinate to
Gosregistr.
There are serious problems of inter-agency competition and lack of cooperation, particularly
among cadastral and legal agencies and Glavarhitektura. Gosregistr, Glavarhitektura, and notaries
all seek more autonomy and importance. They are reluctant to share information even at the
provincial level, and officials in remote places show the same unwillingness and inability to
cooperate.
Private realtors are scarce outside Bishkek city. There are a few in Osh city and none in Naryn.
The number of realtors can be seen as an indicator of land and real estate market development.
They benefit from new system of registration.
-49 -



Social Development Issues
As soon as private ownership was introduced, people began to sell land unofficially, by
private receipt. There was no mechanism for transferring land and land tenure rights
remain weak, especially in rural areas. Survey respondents want registration for investment
rather than for consumption. They are frustrated by the lack of information, and they
distrust BTI and the Land Agency. Land and real estate documentation should be
simplified and the Kyrgyz language should be used in information campaigns, especially in
rural areas. Access to markets, one of the greatest weaknesses in the agricultural and small
enterprises sectors, needs to be addressed.
The New System of Registration
During in-depth interviews, both clients and officials discuss the new system of registration, but
their opinions differ. Most clients know nothing about the new system of and they are inclined to
see disadvantages. Some clients hope that the new system will improve the process of real estate
and land registration.
The Land and Real Estate Market
Most of the respondents point out that there is no real market for agricultural lands but there is a
market for buildings and construction (real estate) except in remote places like Uzgen (south) and
Naryn (mountainous region) where the real estate market is undeveloped.
Attitudes towards the idea of selling land vary. Most of the respondents support the idea of
buying and selling land, including many of the officials. Others agree but have some fears of the
consequences, and one quarter (eight clients and four officials) are opposed to buying and selling
land because of speculation and potential landlessness.
Officials in Bishkek question the five-year moratorium on land sales, which was introduced to
protect people who have no knowledge of land prices and values. Internal and external migration
and ethnic problems could be exacerbated if there were no limits on land sales. Cultural attitudes
toward land and land markets differ substantially among ethnic groups and between regions in the
Kyrgyz Republic. For example, the south has a shortage of land and water and a legacy of many
conflicts over irrigated land.
Despite the moratorium, there are many cases of land sales. Reducing the moratorium to one year
or eliminating it would enable farmers to obtain loans and help develop the market.
Mortgages and Land Lease
Most respondents completed a required document during transactions, but some had only oral
- 50 -



contracts to save time and avoid taxes. Most people who received loans under the guarantee or
security said they would be able to pay them back. A few were negative, and some would not
even consider a mortgage for themselves or their children because of the high interest rate. There
is no land mortgaging in the country. Most of the officials recognize that their clients are
functionally illiterate. Some of the respondents point out clients' attempts to evade legal
procedures.
Tenure Security
Almost all clients emphasize weak land tenure rights, especially in rural areas. Growing poverty,
unemployment, corruption, and economic decline have a negative impact on security in the
Kyrgyz Republic. The clients fear that state organizations could take away land or buildings under
various pretexts. The officials claim that their authority guarantees the right to use and own
immovable property, but 90 percent of the landowners say the state could take back the land any
time and change or repeal the law of private ownership.
Registration and Transaction Costs
Clients made a number of recommendations: reduce the list of documents, simplify procedures,
locate all registration authorities in one place, ensure an objective assessment of real estate and
land value, hire specialists who know prices and have experience in engineering and construction.
Clients find it difficult to obtain information, especially at first, and the application process is more
prolonged, expensive, and confusing than anticipated. They are not familiar with the many costs
of registration: direct, indirect, formal, informal, notaries, and legal assistance. Lack of markets
and travel fees also add to the costs.
Clients talk about the practice of unofficial service and fees to speed the process. It is no secret.
Bribes are common and the clients can cite numerous cases. The clients do not know how many
signatures to collect, or how much to pay for each kind of transaction. Officials say it takes two to
four weeks to complete processing while many clients describe the registration procedures and
transactions as "a long and complicated process."
Many clients do not know how to get information on the official costs. In Bishkek, the BTI has
stands that list the services provided and the prices. Clients accept an official fee for service
offered, without claims from their side, and they also agree to an additional payment to speed the
process. Most of clients interviewed mention a practice of official and unofficial prices for
registration service. The unofficial part of the payment has a strong influence on attitudes to the
client.
Information
The quality of available information on real estate and land market and registration is poor. The
information given on television is very meager and the reports of friends, neighbors and relatives
are limited and imprecise. The offices in Bishkek and Osh have information stands, but clients
- 51 -



prefer to apply directly to the staff or ask each other. The situation is worse in remote places like
small cities in Naryn or Uzgen. Some respondents from these places complain that information
comes mainly from rumors.
Almost all clients-respondents stressed the infornation vacuum in the terms of real estate and
land. Some respondents expressed their mistrust of mass media and official authorities. When
asked how accessible is the information and consultation on land/real estate registration, the
respondents confirmed that there is no accurate iinformnation on what real estate is available where
and for how much in the Kyrgyz Republic as a whole. There is some information on the real estate
market in the capital, but information for other regions is not available. In general, informational
institutions do not exist; an infrastructure has to be developed for the market of immovable
property.
All local authorities on registration of land and real estate receive information on regulations,
instructions, guidelines, tariff estimates on services, and other useful information through official
channels. However, dissemination of official informationi is not satisfactory due to a lack of fax
machines and electronic communication. Regional departments get information within two to
three days of its issue, but they are not able to transmit it to raions and towns without adequate
copy equipment. The regional staff knows about innovations from mass media earlier than
through official channels. Information on registration modification is even delayed in Bishkek city.
Employees of BTI look for information themselves, and sometimes their clients inform them.
Accessibility
According to opinion in focus groups discussions, the main impediment for registration access is
the location of offices. Clients waste their time and money in visits to these institutions. Many
registration authorities have moved, and clients do not know the address. Almost all visited
agencies have their own space, and all departments and archives are located close to them.
Schedules of reception and field days are available in all offices.
Language
According to the 1989 Law on State Language in Kyrgyzstan, Kyrgyz is the state language. All
official documentation should be shifted to Kyrgyz by 2005. However, documentation is mainly in
Russian and neglect of the Kyrgyz language is noticed in all departments, especially in urban
areas. According to participant observation in Bishkek and Sokuluk, application forms,
documentation, and service of clients are available in Russian only. If a client has no command of
Russian, he/she could have difficulty registering land or real estate. In Naryn, most clients speak
Kyrgyz, there is service in Kyrgyz language, and documentation is processed in both Rlussian and
Kyrgyz. In South Osh and Uzgen regions, clients speak Kyrgyz and Uzbek; the staff deals with
clients in Kyrgyz, Uzbek, and Russian; and documentation is available in Kyrgyz and Russian.
Institutional Structure, Culture, and Capacity
52 -



Gosregistr is a promising new institution, sensitive to clients' needs and experience. There
is urgent need for computers, fax machines, and copying equipment. There should be a
more structured system of training, more available information, and clear criteria for
success.
BTI and Land Agency Offices
Many clients mistrust these institutions. They find it difficult to get full information on the
application forns needed for registration and the charges for the services provided. Most of
respondents are not satisfied with the work of BTI and land agency offices, and they are unhappy
with the impolite manner of the staff in its treatment of clients. Users complain, saying there is no
transparency in BTI and other offices.
According to participant observation, there is a working atmosphere in all the registration
agencies. The most noisy and nervous atmosphere is in Bishkek because of the high flow of
visitors and the long queue. This is particularly noticeable after weekends and before the work of
the evaluating commission on real estate sales in the municipal and district administrations. Many
employees of such agencies are open; they provide consultations and the required information.
However, there are some cases of unfriendly service.
Equipment and Conditions for Clients
The local network with eight computers is only available in the Bishkek office. Some departments
can exchange information, but other regional departments have no computers. There is an urgent
need for computers, fax machines, and copying equipment.
The basic conditions for clients are not well organized in any of the offices observed. All
departments have a shortage of office supplies, paper, and furniture (desks, chairs, and shelves for
documentation). The furniture is old and needs repair, and clients fill out their applications and
talk with specialists while standing. These factors contribute to an uncomfortable office
environment for employees and clients. This has a negative impact on the quality of service and
increases the time it takes employees to draw up, register, and process documents, organize
archives, and develop a database. In all departments except Bishkek, the restrooms are located
outside and have no water. This is unsanitary and uncomfortable for clients and employees.
The registration procedures require observing and measuring buildings in order to find out if any
changes have been made. A technician is obliged to visit the client's home, but as a rule
departments do not provide the necessary transport for the technicians. The client has to cover the
costs for transportation. Registration documents are only valid for one year. After that, the client
must ask the technician to come again.
Complementary Services
Staff of the BTI and other registration facilities, notaries and lawyers, and realtors could profit
from Gosregistr procedures. On the other hand, they may lose part of their unofficial income if the
- 53 -



documentation requirements are reduced and simplified. There are various complaints regarding
notaries. Respondents dislike the long lines and the impolite manner of dealing with clients.
Local Government
The incomplete and incoherent information base for immovable property deprives government of
the ability to administer land and real estate policy appropriately. Local government does not
appear yet to be fully responsible and answerable to the needs of real estate market development.
There are numerous cases where local government plays positive and negative roles on
transactions in land and real estate. Many respondents think local government is more often a
negative actor in evaluating commission, for example by increasing of the cost of the object.
Disputes
There are frequent disputes on land and real estate, especially concerning boundaries and tenure
rights. Respondents refer to the shortage of knowledge on how to proceed with registration and
complete the package of documents. Illegal actions such as occupation, increasing boundaries,
and improper registration of real estate lead to numerous disputes.
The registration authorities handle dispute resolution. If the client is not satisfied with the
decision, he can apply to the court. There are many examples of conflict between state authorities
and clients. Respondents prove that many of the disputes have not been resolved in the right way.
They mistrust the legal authorities, and several claim that those who can pay more are the
winners.
The judge, the notary, and Gosregistr work on a joint basis, exchanging information. The court
does not consider disputes concerning allotments. Usually, such cases are sent to village councils
(selsovets) or rural government (aiyl-okmoty). Selsovets do not charge an official fee to solve
disputes. In some cases, rural people apply to the Court of Elders.
Many land disputes take place with the state architecture office. In urban areas, non-observance of
the General Plan could cause a conflict with architectural institutions. It makes sense to work with
the architectural authorities using current available information concerning the purpose of land in
cases of land distribution.
Institutional Analysis
Gosregistr could be an effective institution. It started as a focused, central organization and is
establishing a national network of oblast and raion offices. As is the case of most nascent
institutions, Gosregistr is going through a development process.
Impediments. Some of the intemal technical and procedural changes have been discussed above.
Among the technical changes are to centralize decision-making and reduce processing time.
Some other changes must be made in consultation with clients and other agencies, based on a
clear understanding of the needs and characteristics of clients, such as reducing documentation
- 54 -



requirements, simplifying application forms, issuing application forms in new languages,
standardizing decision-making criteria, and providing feedback on rejected applications. Some of
these essential changes are being implemented.
Institutional capacity. Gosregistr can increase its institutional capacity by working on three
aspects: 1) internal reorganization, speeding internal processes, increasing skill levels, improving
communications and data management; 2) a public information component, updated as clients
become more experienced and more demanding. Better informed clients will help Gosregistr
become more effective and serviceable. 3) a support system that enables clients to understand and
articulate their needs. Such support must come from outside organizations and/or investment
projects, and Gosregistr should conscientiously co-operate.
More appropriate client service. Gosregistr is a new style organization with a dedicated staff
who appear to have a good understanding of the needs and challenges of their clients.
Nevertheless, the SA identified a clear need to improve the interface between Gosregistr and its
clients, the architects, and the notaries. There should be long and short-term training programs for
registration office staff and other stakeholders (Glavarhitectura, legal agencies, local government,
notaries, and private companies of realtors) for the promotion of real estate markets.
Transparency of procedures. The programs of Gosregistr should be transparent for the local
community to ensure that all stakeholders are aware of the programs.
Links to other resources. The impact of Gosregistr depends on many factors. Many of the
factors are beyond the control or the technical competence of staff. Nonetheless, their success
depends on improving their clients' ability to deal with such issues.
A Framework for Effective Participation of Relevant Stakeholders
The social assessment reveals a large demand for land and real estate registration in urban
and rural areas and proves that the project's objectives and interventions are acceptable to
its beneficiaries. Gosregistr staff should become more client-oriented, with special attention
given to training. Advocacy and mobilization is needed to strengthen the projects and help
develop future-oriented policies.
The project's participation strategy might have the following steps:
Centralize the registration process. Clients are interested in concentrating the registration
process in one place. Final decisions should be centralized, speeding the process.
Develop support technology at registration offices. Proposals and recommendations to simplify
registration should improve operational working conditions including renovation of rooms,
procurement of furniture (desks, chairs, and shelves), transport to carry out fieldwork, and
installation of computers, copiers and fax machines. Bishkek's BTI should be moved to a newer,
larger building.
-55-



Simplify registration process. Develop a package of documents to simplify the procedure of
collecting documents; develop criteria on buying and selling real estate; introduce a single
schedule of tariffs; replace the 7 percent state fee by a tax on the sale of real estate; develop the
institution of professional appraiser of buildings.
Reduce constraints. Reduce or remove obvious constraints. Make documentation procedures
more transparent to remove uncertainties about transaction costs and processing time.
Use simpler, understandable application forms. Issue forms in Kyrgyz and Russian to increase
access for less educated people. Use Kyrgyz language more widely in information campaigns and
registration.
Make information available. Improve inforrnation flows and reduce insensitivity to the needs of
clients and transaction costs. Prepare and distribute materials to inform clients of all education
levels about requirements, documentation, procedures, costs, conditions, processing times, direct
and indirect application costs and fees, appeal mechanisms, support sources, and other relevant
issues. The outcome of the information campaign will be to increase transparency, establish
accountability, generate reasonable expectations, and empower clients to protect their interests
and articulate their needs.
Eliminate corruption. Clients are tired of paying numerous bribes.
Make tenure rights more secure. Secure private property rights in land and clarify rights of all
rights holders to prevent the disputes over land, especially in the south. This is very urgent need.
Monitor progress and address emerging issues. Establish an ongoing monitoring program to
assess the adequacy and effectiveness of inforrnation campaigns, articulate lessons learned, assess
the customer orientation of Gosregistr, and identify opportunities to consolidate and improve its
efficiency and effectiveness. Use regular reporting channels and employ focus groups for in-depth
exploration of specific issues, as appropriate.
Coordinate agencies in land and real estate registration. Inter-agency rivalry and incoherent
state policy have a negative influence on service to clients. Coordinate the registration activities of
the architectural agency (Glavarhitektura), the legal agency (Ministry of Justice) and Gosregistr.
Social Impact Monitoring
An access monitoring program should be established to learn from the experience of land
registration, to adjust the client orientation of Gosregistr, and to improve information
dissemination. After 12 to 18 months, undertake a study to evaluate implementation and
gather feedback from the public and other beneficiaries.
This project is expected to increase access to land and real estate registration for a wide spectrum
- 56 -



of urban and rural people. It will enable them to make productive investments that will increase
their incomes and standard of living. Social impact monitoring will focus on a number of aspects,
which are expected to change over time, reflecting the multi-dimensionality of social aspects of
the project. The major topic areas and the types of changes to be assessed are as follows:
Role of Gosregistr offices. Do offices meet their obligations? Do offices acquire new roles and
meaning consistent with their original mandate, or on other dimensions? How can Gosregistr
facilitate or complicate coordination between other actors (State Architecture agencies, notaries)?
Benefits. Do the BTI and land offices have an obvious impact on access and simplification of
land and real estate registration?
Satisfaction. Are clients satisfied with their function and impact? How might corruption be
eliminated? What characteristics promote or impede land registration project success?
Access. Are offices perceived to increase access to land registration or other resources?
Impediments. What external and internal factors promote/impede land registration project?
Coordination. How much and what kind of mechanism should there be for inter-agency
cooperation for clients' benefit? How can national and regional agencies coordinate their efforts
meaningfully to improve land and real estate registration? How can coordination between those
actors be facilitated?
Training. How can guidelines and training be most effectively disseminated and carried out to
have an impact on local and national registration process?
Context. What is the influence of the social context on Land Registration Project success?
Conclusions
In most respects, the survey confirms commonly held impressions regarding clients' and officials'
attitudes toward land and real estate registration. The findings of eight focus group discussions,
fifty in depth-interviews, and participant observation in five BTI and Land agency offices are
correlated. In addition, the survey provides a broader picture of the urban and rural context that
demonstrates the magnitude of the challenge facing officials in institutions like BTI and Land
Agency and the clients they serve. Recommendations of the stakeholder workshop correlate with
findings of the SA.
- 57 -



I
I



IBRD 26822R
.t   SK~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E
S.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C
T~~~ T-                                                        f. Al-lTo  o 
TALAS                 /   oRo /lykpo-                                                                  jW
'-N-.'-                                                                                                                                                                                                8D      * (
I<N              7wS-->  DYHA t M3ADsN                                                                                                                                                               741
__.  I  .L 
< 8 =      \            B Ikabb   /   ^                                              *                                                                                                     SDOBLASTCAPTALS
C                                                                                                          IN A RY                                                           K-SyY
N'~~~~~~~
f ~~N~~r~v~~%.\r)  - 4y~~~;s-~~------- ~~KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
TAJiKISTAN                                                                                                                             -I- R-4---R ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RAILROADS
75~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T M0TSohob,                                                                                                                                MAIN ROADS
-5'    RoSSA                                                                                                        -  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OTHER ROADS
L  ~  ~      ~     KSAHTN                                                                                                                                                                         NATIONAL CAPITAL
KAAHSA                                                                                                                                                               a     OBLAST CAPITALS
Soo  o   \  2                                C                                                                                                     0     SELECTED CITES~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 EECE CTE
ADo),                                                                                                                                                                   ORLAST ROI J_IIDCH I II A   ThARIRSadorle colol de 1lu to  donwoth mf ZKOLTBEAE
i Q AFGI--.                                                                                                                                                                            INTIRRIJ ASONATEOUnyNDARImcnD o the eE SSPoL t of nns ierrilory. or any endonemont  Q  MILESNAPRLL1998
A  (,KYRG~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7-6P--,,f, ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KILOMETERS
OF RAN   A                                                     n10  nooooollOsloooo' nnodnons5                                            5         55       75        ITS
AFG,KOIO A     *                                  n        OoRAoND                                                                     MILES
'-5.  _____________________________________________________________________________                   ______________________________________~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~APRL 199



