Report No. PID7975
Project Name                     Kyrgyz Republic-Land and Real Estate...
Registration Project
Region                           Europe and Central Asia Region
Sector                           AD - Rural Development; AG - Agency Reform;
BI - Institutional Development;
UM - Urban Management
Project                          KGPE49719
Borrower(s)                      Government of the Kyrgyz Republic
Implementing Agency              State Agency for Registration
Environment Category             C
Date PID Prepared                June 3, 1999
Projected Appraisal Date         October 29, 1999
Projected Board Date             March 21, 2000
1. Country and Sector Background
As a transition country, the Kyrgyz Republic faces a number of development
issues associated with property rights in land and real estate. These cut
across sectors, but are all associated with clarification and protection of
those rights. The most important are the following:
Clarity and security of property rights. As the country continues the
process of transition to a market system, proper handling of rights in
immovable property is essential for development. Heretofore, information on
land and real estate has been collected and maintained in an uncoordinated
and incomplete manner by a number of different agencies including the Bureaus
of Technical Inventory, Land Agency offices, city and regional Architects'
offices, the State Property Fund, the State Cartographic Agency, and others.
Furthermore, as the process of initial privatization of immovable property
moves forward, there is a rapidly growing amount of information pertaining to
rights.
Agriculture growth. The Government has placed high priority on growth in the
agriculture sector in its strategy for economic recovery.     With 459 of GDP
accounted for by agriculture, growth in this sector is essential for overall
economic recovery. Following a significant decline in agricultural output in
the first half of the 1990's resulting from a large reduction in subsidies
and shifts in relative prices for outputs and inputs, agricultural output has
begun recovering in the second half of the decade. However, significant
obstacles lie ahead if an acceptable rate of growth is to be maintained.
Levels of investment in the sector are such that the value of capital assets
continues to decline. Profitability of the sector remains depressed by weak
domestic demand, poor access to export markets, and an underdeveloped
internal marketing infrastructure.
Development of urban real estate markets. Despite extensive privatization of
housing, and significant progress in privatization of enterprises, real



estate markets in urban areas remain underdeveloped. This largely reflects
the weak macro-economic situation in the country, but is made worse by
inappropriate and complicated transactions procedures, lack of supporting
institutional infrastructure, and in many cases lack of clarity of title.
Government administration of land and real estate. The incomplete and
uncoordinated information base for immovable property deprives Government of
the ability to administer land and real estate policy appropriately. In
particular, the weak fiscal cadastre results in reduced collection of taxes.
Furthermore, tax rates are established in an ad hoc manner and are not
consistent with the goals of economic efficiency.
Government strategy in dealing with these
issues has been built around introduction of policies supportive of market
development and unification and coordination of data held by the State. In
particular, for clarity and security of property rights, the Government has
passed a Law on Registration, which was reviewed throughout its development
by the Bank. The Law provides the legal foundation for a parcel-based title
registration system. Furthermore, the Government has formed a new State
Agency for Registration (GosRegistr) which combines the most important
agencies involved in maintaining information on land and real estate (the
Bureaus of Technical Inventory, the Land Agency, and the Cartographic
Agency). The institutional capacities of these agencies are now to be
combined in establishment of registration offices. Statutes for the
functioning and structure of GosRegistr are to be elaborated during the
remainder of project preparation.
On agricultural growth, Government is
following a multi-pronged strategy that addresses market development, access
to credit, improvements to infrastructure, and provision of services to
farmers. An important aspect of this strategy is enhancing incentives for
efficient use of agricultural land, and for investments in land. In the fall
of 1998 the right to private ownership of land was adopted by referendum. A
package of land-related legislation is to be presented to Parliament this
year that would facilitate the functioning of land markets and investment in
land. The Bank has reviewed these drafts, in particular the Land Code, the
Law on Mortgage, and the Law on Cooperatives and finds them supportive of the
goal of market development. At the same time, use rights and ownership
rights in agricultural land are being privatized and certificates to that
effect are being issued to the population.
Government strategy for development of
urban real estate markets lacks coherence at this point, in part due to the
difficulty of organizing local governments to review this issue on a
nationwide scale. Beyond the initial privatization of property, not enough
has been done to address the institutional and procedural framework for
markets. The package of draft laws associated with land will provide a step
forward for urban markets, but other legislative documents, including the Law
on Condominium, require substantial additional work. Local government does
not appear yet to be fully oriented to the needs of real estate market
development. One of the purposes for the creation of GosRegistr is to
provide new impetus in this area.
The creation of GosRegistr is the primary
- 2 -



strategic initiative in addressing the issue of Government administration of
land and real estate. GosRegistr has been authorized to collect and
coordinate relevant information from its constituent offices as well as from
other agencies. Appropriate guidelines for maintenance of cadastral
information and property appraisal methodologies need to be developed.
2. Objectives
The primary objective of the Project is to encourage and support
development of markets for and investments in land and real estate. In order
to achieve this a number of issues have to be resolved, including: the
privatization of land and immovable property; access to credit; development
of a group of professional experts involved in real estate agency, management
and administration; appraisal expertise; public awareness and understanding
of the principles and practice of private ownership; and support from local
authorities. The basis upon which all this works is secure tenure provided
by a competent and efficient registration system, and simple, secure
procedures for conducting transactions.
An additional objective of the Project will to improve the quality and
reliability of the country's fiscal cadastre by systematizing information on
immovable property, and developing and implementing property appraisal
techniques.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The Bank is in a unique position to assist
the Government, with a good deal of experience in the issues to be addressed
by the project in closely related countries of the CIS as well as around the
world. The Government will need a relatively broad range of advice and
support, that will be able to link the system of registration into the larger
picture of development of markets for land and real estate. With its full
program of support with the Government in the areas of rural development,
privatization, banking reform, and fiscal reform, the Bank is well placed to
do this.
4. Description
The Project will be composed of three components: (a) institutional
development, (b) operational services, and (c) training. Specific project
outputs were discussed and agreed with our counterparts, subject to further
elaboration and development during the remainder of project preparation.
Those outputs broken out by the three project components are as follows:
(a)     Institutional Development
(i)     establish management capacity at National
level to supervise, monitor and promote the registration system
nationwide, to encourage development of the land and real estate
market, and to monitor and evaluate Project progress;
(ii)    set up Registration offices throughout the
country and implement sporadic registration in each office;
(iii)   provide a full legislative, regulatory and
procedural framework for operation of the Registration offices;
(iv)    coordinate with Government agencies,
-3 -



notaries and other land and real estate professionals in order to
implement straightforward and effective
processes for conducting transactions; and
(v)     coordinate with local Government concerning
establishment of a well-founded fiscal cadastre.
(b)     Operational Services
(i)     conduct a public awareness and
communication campaign that will include professional organizations,
Government, and the general public;
(ii)    create a series of registration index maps
for each Registration office through a mixture of new mapping,
revised mapping and use of existing mapping
(iii)   carry out data collection from
organizations with records relating to rights in land and real estate and
archiving of these records at the relevant Registration office; and
(iv)    conduct systematic adjudication of rights
and registration of rights in selected sites.
(c)     Training
(i)     establish fully functioning permanent
training centers for the ongoing in-service training of Registration office
staff and personnel involved in the
Project;
(ii)    establish a training program, professional
organizations and other activities for the promotion of real estate
markets;
(iii)   establish a long term training program to
cater to the future needs of GosRegistr and a private professional
capacity in land and real estate markets;
Project Inputs. The Project will require investment in personnel, equipment,
mapping and office refurbishment. Additional items will include technical
assistance, operating costs, public information, and seminars and workshops.
Institutional Development
Responsibility for management of the Project will rest with the
National Office of GosRegistr, assisted by a modest sized Project
Implementation Unit (PIU). The National Office of GosRegistr will include
specialists in land and city cadastres, immovable property markets, legal
specialists, an information technology specialist, and support staff. The
PIU will be composed of a director, legal specialist, procurement specialist,
accountant, and bilingual secretary. The Project will finance operating
costs of the PIU and office furniture and equipment for both GosRegistr and
the PIU. In addition, one car and one mini-bus will be provided.
The Project will ensure that Registration offices are established
throughout the country. Prior to opening each office the premises will be
refurbished such that a user friendly service can be provided to customers.
In addition the registration index map, materials and stationery will be
provided. Training will be given and offices will be certified before they
- 4 -



will be allowed to open. It is expected that three offices will be opened in
1999, a further 14 in 2000 and the remainder (approximately 26) in 2001.
Offices will begin sporadic registration once they are certified. Inputs
required will include: building works; and office furniture, equipment, and
supplies. In certain locations where the level of transactions is
sufficiently large, a modest amount of computer equipment will be provided.
Additional inputs to the Registration offices will be provided by the
Operational Services and Training components (see below).
In order to make economic transactions in land and real estate simple,
inexpensive and fast it is necessary to remove existing bureaucratic hurdles,
unnecessary fees and complicated processes. This will involve analysis of
existing laws, regulations and procedures and refinement of these for the
benefit of the user. In addition, a public awareness strategy and series of
workshops, seminars and the like for real estate professionals will help to
develop the private market. Inputs will mainly be provided by the staff of
GosRegistr, the PIU, and foreign technical assistance, but additional inputs
will be required to conduct the necessary workshops, seminars and public
meetings.
Assistance will be provided to local Government, as requested, to
coordinate the work of the Project with improved methodologies for managing
the fiscal cadastre.    This will be provided by foreign and local technical
assistance, and input from staff of GosRegistr.
Operational Services
This component will finance the program for systematic registration,
the provision of maps to the Registration offices, and public information
campaigns.
Both the establishment of a land market and the process of systematic
registration require substantial investment in public awareness and
communication. Costs involve the production of leaflets, explanatory
pamphlets, public meetings, seminars, workshops, short courses, advertising
in newspapers, radio and TV, and the personnel involved in this work.
Stationery and other consumable materials are required. This is a continuous
process throughout the project and requires full-time dedicated staff or
contractors.
Each Registration Office requires a series of registration index maps
that are produced from existing materials, field survey work to update
existing materials or the provision of new mapping. This may require
investment in new technology, but will also include substantial investment in
production of copies of maps for use in the Registration offices.
The systematic conversion of existing information concerning rights in
land and real estate into the new system requires considerable input in terms
of data processing and conversion. This will require large numbers of
contracted personnel to investigate rights both on the ground and in the
documents, production of parcel boundary information onto the registration
index maps, preparation of large numbers of ownership registers, and public
interaction to ensure the results are accurate and acceptable. It is
anticipated that roughly 450,000 properties will be covered by systematic
registration from an estimated total of 1.5 million properties for the
- 5 -



country as a whole. Inputs in this area will be considerable because of the
volume of work involved.
Archiving of the records produced during systematic registration is a
major task requiring special furniture and large quantities of stationery and
consumables.
Training
Fully functioning permanent training centers for staff of GosRegistr
will be established at Kant and Kara-Su, and at the National Apparatus of
GosRegistr in Bishkek. These will require building works and refurbishment
of premises in order to establish classrooms. Training equipment, comprising
overhead projectors, white boards, flip charts, and so on will be provided
for each training center. In addition, a computer laboratory for training in
both basic and advanced computer studies will be needed. Adequate supplies
of consumable materials for the centers will be required in order to run the
courses.
A budget will be provided to enable students to be accommodated and fed
during their training courses and personnel to run the training centers will
also be required.
Long term requirements for training will require the establishment of
courses at university level to cater to higher level studies and the future
staff of GosRegister and others. The budget will include an allocation for
equipping the university to conduct these courses, foreign technical
assistance to provide necessary input in designing the courses, and
potentially a program of scholarships.
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
Government               1
IBRD                     0
IDA                      8
Total Project Cost       9
6. Implementation
The project will be implemented over a
period of five years.
GosRegistr will be the implementing agency
and will be responsible for establishment of the registration offices
throughout the country. The rayon and city level registration offices would
be overseen by the national office of GosRegistr, which will have a staff of
approximately 14. This national office of GosRegistr has the following
functions and responsibilities: (1) set guidelines including elaboration of
regulations, procedures, and formats for registration; (2) monitor and audit
registration activity at the rayon level; (3) liaise with other ministries
and agencies; (4) deal with complaints and appeals to activity at the rayon
level; and (5) develop and support the technology to be used in the
- 6 -



registration offices.
The rayon and city registration offices
will be established on the basis of existing agencies. In most cases this
will be the existing Bureaus of Technical Inventory (BTIs). In some rural
districts, the rayon land agency may serve as the basis for the new
registration offices. In all cases, staff and records of the BTIs and the
land agency offices will be pooled for the new system. In the predominant
number of cases where the BTIs serve as the basis for the registration
offices, 1-2 staff will be transfered from the land agency offices to
maintain the registration index maps as part of the registration offices.
Where necessary, new staff with appropriate legal training and experience
will be hired to serve as Chief Registrars of the local offices. Where
necessary, repair to existing premises will be undertaken or new premises
located for the registration offices. The above-described approach has the
advantage of minimizing the net costs to the Government of establishing the
new registration system.
GosRegistr will be assisted in project
implementation by a small Project Implementation Unit (PIU) that will be a
direct continuation of the existing Project Preparation Unit (PPU). The PIU
will be directly subordinate to the Head of GosRegistr and include a project
manager, procurement specialist, accounting specialist, and bilingual
secretary. The PIU will also house consultants in the areas of registration
systems, land cadastre, land and real estate markets, training, and
information technology. Local consultants will be mentored in these areas by
expat consultants. The PIU will be responsible for conducting procurement
operations, management of local contract staff for data collection and
systematic registration, overseeing the project implementation plan,
maintaining financial and overall project implementation records, and
providing regular reports to the Bank on these.
The project will require close cooperation
with local government in terms of revenue flows associated with the
registration system, the allocation of any new premises, cooperation between
GosRegistr and agencies subordinate to local government, and review and
simplification of procedures associated with transactions in land and real
estate. The project does not foresee significant adjustments to existing
revenue flows. The share of BTI revenues that have accrued to local budgets
will remain unchanged. The only adjustment in existing flows necessary would
be allocation of a small percentage of the income (possibly less than 1%)
derived from the rayon registration offices that would assist in the
financing of the national office of GosRegistr. As the level of market
activity picks up, the level of revenues received by the registration offices
will also increase, which will allow for additional hiring of staff at the
local level.
The project will also require close
cooperation with other Government agencies at the national level, in
particular the Ministry of Justice. To this end an inter-ministerial group
will be established under the leadership of GosRegistr with representation
from the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Finance, Goskominvest, and the
Committee on Municipal Property Management of Bishkek.
7. Sustainability
-7-



World experience indicates that well-run
registration systems can be self-financing at reasonable levels of fees for
service. Sustainability will require that costs of system operation be kept
within reasonable bounds, through the use of simplified procedures and
pragmatic technical standards associated with parcel survey. One area of
question for sustainability is the financing of cadastral work. It is not
clear that the current arrangement of financing cadastral work out of the
budget is viable. This question will be explored during the remainder of
project preparation. Implementation of the project will begin in those areas
of the country with the highest level of transactions and demand for land and
real estate. As experience is gained and the basis for functioning of land
and real estate markets improves, registration offices will be opened in the
remaining areas of the country in a phased manner.
For the achievement of project objectives,
the primary risks are the ability to reach agreement with local government on
the rationalization and simplification of procedures required for
transactions in land and real estate. This is more of a problem in urban
areas, where the layers of administrative clearance and control are more
numerous. An additional significant risk factor is the ablility of the courts
to handle the level of disputes that will arise as part of registration.
During the remainder of project preparation we will look at the possibility
of building institutional support for the land courts into the project and of
developing simplified administrative dispute resolution mechanisms that would
reduce the case burden on the courts. Ultimately, full achievement of the
development objectives will depend upon the overall macro-economic situation
in the country.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Longer-term Bank experience with land
registration, as reflected in an OED Review from 1992, indicates the
importance of treating this subject under a stand-alone project, rather than
as a component of a broader development project. The reason for this is that
usually there is specific institutional responsibility and a rather complex
set of policy issues associated with implementation of land registration,
which has frequently not received due attention in more complicated
implementation designs. Strong commitment from Government is also essential
to achieve project objectives, particularly when these projects take on
objectives beyond just registration in the area of land and real estate
market development.
Experience in ECA, particularly in the CIS
countries, has demonstrated a tendency among counterparts to be excessively
oriented toward computerization of systems and often to set unreasonably
costly standards for survey and mapping in support of registration. There
has also been a tendency in the CIS countries to put primary weight on the
benefits accruing to the State in the form of improved information about land
and real estate, and secondary weight on the interests of rights holders.
Lastly, similar projects in ECA have had to deal with strong inter-agency
competition and lack of cooperation in setting up registration systems,
particularly between cadastral and legal agencies of the Government.
The proposed project design is simple and
straightforward, with a single implementing agency that combines the most
important pre-existing agencies for land and real estate. The design is not
- 8 -



oriented to computerization, with automation only taking place in offices
with high levels of current or anticipated transactions. There is also a
strongly pragmatic view toward the needs for new base mapping, and a
determination on the part of the Borrower to maximize the use of existing
resources and information, and to find workable solutions that will deliver
results for the population.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)      No
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues:   None
11. Contact Points:
Team Leader
Edward C. Cook
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: 473-7622
Fax: 522-1164
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax: (202) 522-1500
Processed by the InfoShop week ending June 25, 1999.
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may not
be necessarily included in the final project.
-9-



