Page  1
E969 
 
GOVERNMENT OF KYRGYZ REPUBLIC 
 
Agribusiness and Marketing  
Project Preparation Unit 
 
AGRIBUSINESS AND MARKETING PROJECT 
 
Environmental Impact Assessment 
 
April 2004 
 
John Ambrose 
Trevelyn Consulting Inc. 
Mallorytown, Ontario 
CANADA 
Page  2
Kyrgyz Republic ABM Project                       Environmental Impact Assessment                          April 2004
i
page 
Contents 
 
          i 
 
SUMMARY 
          
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
vi
 
1. 
INTRODUCTION 
AND 
BACKGROUND 
     1 
 
1.1 Purpose 
1.2 Agribusiness and Marketing Project 
1.2.1 Development 
Objective 
1.2.2 Key 
Indicators 
1.2.3 Project 
Components 
1.3  World Bank Environmental Assessment Requirements 
 
 
2. 
 
LEGAL 
AND 
ADMINISTRATIVE 
FRAMEWORK 
    4 
 
2.1 Background and Framework 
2.2 Environmental Law 
2.3 International Cooperation 
2.4 Presidential Decrees 
2.5 Environmental Policy Objectives 
2.6 Environmental Management Responsibilities 
2.7 Enforcement Responsibilities 
2.8 Environmental Impact Assessment Procedure 
2.9 Public Involvement 
2.10 Monitoring and Environmental Performance 
2.11 Capacity for Environmental Management 
2.11.1 Government of Kyrygz Republic 
2.11.2 Participating Financial Institutions 
2.11.3 Consulting Community 
2.11.4 Agribusiness 
 
3. 
METHODOLOGY         12 
 
3.1 Legal Instrumentation and Management Capacity 
 
3.2 
Public 
Involvement     
3.3 
Determination 
of 
Potential 
Impacts 
       
3.4 Baseline Data 
3.5 Scoping and Bounding 
3.6 Criteria for Impact Assessment 
3.7 
Cumulative 
Effects          
 
Page  3
Kyrgyz Republic ABM Project                       Environmental Impact Assessment                          April 2004
ii
4. 
THE 
ENVIRONMENT 
        17 
 
4.1 
The 
Biophysical 
Resource        
4.1.1 General   
4.1.2 Biodiversity and Forests 
4.1.3 Water Resources 
4.2 The Environment and Agriculture 
4.3 Social Environment 
4.4 
Important 
Environmental 
Issues 
    
 
5. 
ASSESSMENT 
         22 
 
5.1 
General 
           
5.2 World Bank Safeguard Policies 
5.3 Potential Category A and Category B Sub-projects  
 
 
 
 
 
5.4 Important Environmental Components 
5.5 
Project 
Benefits 
 
          
5.6 Potential Impacts  
5.6.1 General 
5.6.2 Agro-processing 
5.6.3 Livestock Production 
5.6.4 Agricultural Production 
5.7 Potential Cumulative Impacts 
5.8 Mitigation 
5.9 Potential Residual Impacts 
5.10 
Environmental 
Risk 
          
 
6. 
ANALYSIS 
OF 
ALTERNATIVES 
      36 
 
6.1 Project Design 
6.2 ‘No Project’ Alternative 
 
7. 
ENVIRONMENTAL 
MANAGEMENT 
GUIDELINES 
    38 
 
7.1 
General 
           
7.2 
Category 
A 
and 
Category 
B 
Sub-projects 
       
7.3 
Management 
          
7.4 
Monitoring           
7.5 
Environmental 
Capacity 
Development 
 
       
7.5.1 General 
7.5.2 ABMPIU and Consultative Council 
7.5.3 PFI Loan Officers 
7.5.4 Agribusiness Entrepreneurs 
 
8. 
REFERENCES 
         47 
 
Page  4
Kyrgyz Republic ABM Project                       Environmental Impact Assessment                          April 2004
iii
`ANNEXES 
           
 
Annex A: 
Brief Description of Some of the Relevant Environmental Laws 
 
Annex B
:
Impacts, Causes, Consequences and Mitigation 
–
Agribusiness (Agro-processing and 
other) 
 
Annex C: 
Impacts, Causes, Consequences and Mitigation - Agriculture
 
Page  5
Kyrgyz Republic ABM Project                       Environmental Impact Assessment                          April 2004
iv
List of Tables 
 
Table 3.2:  
Agro-processing Industries 
Table 3.3:  
Probable Use of Farm Credit 
Table 3.4:   
Level of Significance of Potential Impact 
Table 5.1:  
Relevant World Bank Safeguard Policies and Risk of Application 
Table 5.2:  
World Bank Categories for Environmental Assessment Purposes 
Table 5.3:  
Important Environmental Components 
Table 5.4:  
Benefits 
–
Farm Inputs 
Table 5.5:  
Potential Impacts of Agro-processing Activities 
Table 5.6:  
Summary of Potential Major Environmental Impacts – Farm Inputs 
Table 5.7:  
Summary of Probable Residual Effects – Agro-processing and Other 
Table 5.8:  
Summary of Probable Residual Effects – Agriculture 
Table 6.1:  
Some Agricultural Good Practices – Towards a Protected Environment and 
Sustainable Agriculture 
Table 6.2:  
Summary of Environmental Capacity Building Requirements 
 
List of Figures 
 
Figure 2.1: 
Management Structure of the Ministry of Ecology and Emergency Situations 
Figure 5.1: 
Schematic Indicating the Relative Residual Impacts of Different Activities 
 
Page  6
Kyrgyz Republic ABM Project                       Environmental Impact Assessment                          April 2004
v
Acronyms
 
ABMP 
 
Agribusiness and Marketing Project 
ABMPIU  
Agribusiness and Marketing Project Implementation Unit  
ABMPPU  
Agribusiness and Marketing Project Planning Unit 
CC  
 
Consultative Council 
CIS  
Commonwealth 
Independent 
States 
EA  
Environmental 
assessment 
ECA 
 
Europe and Central Asia (a World Bank geographical program area) 
EE  
Ecological 
expertise 
EIA 
 
Environmental impact assessment 
FI  
Financial 
intermediary 
HYV  High 
yielding 
variety 
IEC  
Important 
environmental 
component 
IPM 
 
Integrated pest management 
KR  
Kyrgyz 
Republic 
MAWRPI  
Ministry of Agriculture, Water Resources and Processing Industry 
MEES 
 
Ministry of Ecological and Emergency Situations 
MNS 
 
Ministry of National Security 
MoF 
 
Ministry of Finance 
NEAP 
 
National Environmental Action Plan 
NGO  Non- 
government 
organization 
PFI 
 
Participating financial intermediary 
 
Page  7
Kyrgyz Republic ABM Project                       Environmental Impact Assessment                          April 2004
vi
SUMMARY 
 
·
Environmental impact assessment - purpose 
 
The purpose of the environmental impact assessment (EIA) is to examine the effects that the 
Agribusiness and Marketing Project (ABMP) may have on the environment and to provide 
solutions for addressing any significant effects that could occur as a result of the Project.  
 
The assessment consists of four main components: i) a review and summary of relevant 
legislation and the adequacy of the legislation and enforcement mechanisms to ensure 
environmental protection as it relates to the Project; ii) an analysis of probable impacts, 
mitigation and residual impacts of various activities that would qualify for Project loan 
financing; iii) an analysis of the capacity of the Government of Kyrgyz Republic (KR) and 
lending institutions, to recognize and address impacts of any activity for which a loan may be 
requested; and, iv) an environmental management outline of the Project.
 
·
The Project
 
The ABMP development objectives will be to expand the level of activity of processing, 
marketing, and trade enterprises downstream of the farmgate, to increase the number and 
economic importance of producer organizations, and to build trade linkages between producers, 
and primary and secondary level trade organizations. The Project will work directly with private 
enterprises and commercial organizations to improve the competitiveness of Kyrgyz products. It 
is important that the Project be responsive to the needs of the private sector in achieving this 
goal.  Best practice from around the world shows a need for an integrated effort along the supply 
chains in question if real results are to be achieved.  If project interventions are not targeted in 
this manner, the chances of achieving the ultimate objective of increased sales will decline.  
 
The ultimate objective of these efforts will be to increase the amount of value added to Kyrgyz 
agro-food commodities, to increase sales of those commodities both domestically and abroad, 
and to improve the operation of agricultural markets. 
 
·
Regulatory framework 
 
The Law on Environmental Protection provides the general framework for comprehensive 
environmental protection and for the use of natural resources. The law covers a wide range of 
issues including environmental standard setting, the legal regime of specially protected areas, 
rules and procedures for natural resource use, and procedures for dealing with emergencies. The 
Law on Ecological Expertise (EE) provides the Ministry of Ecology and Emergency Situations 
(MEES) and the public  with the guidelines and necessary authority to provide comment on 
environmental assessments and give permission for project development. As well, the Law on 
EE allows the MEES to issue an EE passport that states the allowable emissions and effluent 
discharges for a particular project.
 
The KR is signatory to most of the important international environmental conventions. 
 
Page  8
Kyrgyz Republic ABM Project                       Environmental Impact Assessment                          April 2004
vii
·
Enforcement responsibilities and capacity
 
Enforcement of KR environmental laws is the responsibility of the MEES. Through its head 
office branch and its representation in the oblasts the MEES has the responsibility to ensure that 
all new or rehabilitated projects undergo an environmental impact assessment (EIA) (for projects 
within the category for which EIAs are required) that must include effective public involvement. 
MEES has the responsibility for EIA review and approval. The MEES also has the important 
responsibility of monitoring activities for effluent discharges, air emissions and solid waste 
disposal. A number of other KR government ministries have responsibility for monitoring 
various aspects of the environment including groundwater, surface water, air quality and health 
and safety. Aspects of the environment are controled by various state agencies. 
 
·
World Bank safeguard policies 
 
A
number of project supported activities could have an effect on those areas of concern that are 
addressed in the Bank’s safeguard policies. Four of the ten World Bank safeguard policies are 
relevant to the Project but the risks of triggering any of these policies, with the exception of the 
environmental assessment policy, are relatively low. 
 
·
Environmental assessment 
 
Environmental concerns rest with the Credit Component of the Project. In this component 
funding will be made available primarily to agribusinesses for start-up enterprises and for 
rehabilitation of existing facilities. Most funding is likely to focus on the agro-processing sector. 
However, funding could also be made available for other aspects of the supply chain including 
transportation, warehousing and markets. Agricultural production activities may also be eligible 
for funding.  
 
Since it is unknown as to which activities will be funded it is necessary to look at a wide range of 
possibilities in order to conduct this EIA. For the agro-processing sector eight different activities 
were examined, as well warehousing and markets. These included:  
 
Dairy processing 
Frozen foods processing 
Fruit and vegetable processing 
Abattoirs and meat processing 
Tanneries 
Flour mills 
Cotton ginning 
Oil processing (including maize) 
Warehousing 
Markets
 
Page  9
Kyrgyz Republic ABM Project                       Environmental Impact Assessment                          April 2004
viii
Twenty farm inputs listed below were examined.  
 
.
Seed 
.
Pedigree and HYV seed 
.
Fertilizer 
.
Pesticides 
.
Pedigree livestock 
.
Livestock for finishing 
.
Land rental 
.Tractors  
.
Farm implements (land preparation, sowing and 
harvesting implements)  
.
Land preparation (tractor hire) 
.
Small equipment 
.
Grain drying equipment 
.
Irrigation equipment 
.
Vehicles (for market and land  access)  
.
Farm buildings for stock, machinery, and 
chemicals 
.
Storage facilities (fuel, grain and other produce) 
.
Fencing materials 
.
Primary processing equipment (e.g. milking 
equipment) 
.
Fuel, lubricants, spare parts and other operating 
requirements 
.
Veterinary services
 
The ABMP itself is environmentally benign. The overall effect of the sub-projects will be 
positive. The loans will result in improved agricultural production, improved marketing, and in 
general, improved socioeconomic conditions of the rural population. The Project will further 
contribute t
o
the country’s food security, hopefully contribute to the generation of foreign 
exchange through increased agricultural exports, and most of all, the Project, through the sub-
projects, will significantly contribute to the alleviation of rural poverty. However, the Project’s 
primary objective does not include a contribution to the enhancement of the environment. In the 
past ten years rates of chemical inputs in agriculture have been significantly reduced, resulting in 
cleaner watercourses, lower levels of soil contamination and relatively chemical free food. The 
Project could lead to an increase in the use of farm inputs but mitigation measures and training 
associated with the Project could minimize any potential environmental impacts. To some extent, 
it is presumed that some of the industries under the former socialist regime which created 
significant environmental problems may be refurbished to operate more efficiently and without 
the major environmental contamination of the past. In theory, current environmental regulations 
should prevent a return to serious environmental issues. 
 
·
Agro-processing impacts 
 
Agro-processing industries generally produce wastes (some more than others) that are disposed 
of in the form of effluent discharges, air emissions or solid wastes. Effluents flow into surface 
watercourses and seep into groundwater; emission gases are released into the atmosphere; and 
solid wastes are disposed of in municipal and unorganized dumps. These wastes include a wide 
range of gaseous, solid and liquid compounds ranging from water vapor to highly toxic materials 
and they pose a threat to groundwater supplies, air quality, aquatic ecosystems, and ultimately to 
human health. 
 
When considering expansion of existing processing plants or the establishment of new ones, loss 
of biodiversity and impacts on biophysical resources including forest cover losses and soil 
erosion could be experienced. All of these issues come under different KR regulations and it will 
be important that these regulations are observed if impacts are to be minimized or avoided.  
 
Page  10
Kyrgyz Republic ABM Project                       Environmental Impact Assessment                          April 2004
ix
·
Agricultural production impacts 
 
Increasing pesticide applications can lead to pesticide residue (including heavy metals) build-up 
in the soil.  Pesticides and fertilizers can migrate to both surface waters and groundwater 
resulting in contamination of these two sources and leading to damaged aquatic ecosystems and 
threatened health to downstream users. Pedigree seed and HYVs will demand further 
applications of chemical inputs, thus exacerbating the problem. In the case of the former, public 
health is at risk, in the case of the latter, aquatic ecosystems and, possibly public health, are both 
at risk.  
 
Irrigation rehabilitation and new irrigation schemes can lead to salinization and waterlogging 
–
desertification - if drainage is not managed effectively. Tractors and land preparation can 
promote erosion, particularly if tractors are too heavy and cause soil compaction, and if fields are 
ploughed (with or without the contour) and left a longtime before the sowing period. Land 
purchases, where the land is already under agricultural use, do not lead to increased 
environmental problems. However, where land is under another cover any use such as wetland, 
or forest cover on steep slopes, there is the potential loss of biodiversity, habitat and species. As 
well, erosion risks may be increased, particularly on steep sites. 
 
The principal environmental risks associated with intensification of agriculture concern the safe 
handling and application of pesticides and the appropriate application of fertilizers to avoid 
excessive runoff and contamination of soils and of surface and ground waters. The Plant 
Protection Service (MAWPRI) guidelines should be followed regarding the selection, use, 
storage and application of pesticides. Appropriate training of agricultural workers and 
monitoring of pesticide residues and runoff should be incorporated in sub-project design and 
independently monitored during project implementation.  With sub-projects involving fertilizer 
or pesticide applications, monitoring of groundwater and downstream water quality (as 
appropriate) should be included in project implementation.  
 
If lending is provided for large number of livestock purchases for a single enterprise, it will be 
important to consider grazing capacities to avoid soil erosion, loss of biodiversity, and waste 
management. 
 
·
Cumulative impacts 
 
The environmental concerns with industries focus on air emissions and effluent discharge. 
Although each activity may create emissions well within the established national standards, 
cumulatively, all of the industries in one region (e.g. in a small closed valley with poor air 
circulation) could significantly contribute to the deterioration of overall air quality, resulting in 
an impact on human health. Similarly, the impact on water quality of a common river used by 
several processing plants could be significant. 
 
Pesticide and chemical fertilizer use in agricultural production can have a serious cumulative 
effect. Many farmers in one small watershed could cumulatively have a significant effect on 
Page  11
Kyrgyz Republic ABM Project                       Environmental Impact Assessment                          April 2004
x
surface water bodies, resulting in damaged aquatic ecosytems and affecting water quality for 
downstream users, sometimes in adjacent countries. 
 
The cumulative effect must also take into account other activities outside of the Project. 
Although this has not been done in this EIA, other activities should be accounted for when EIAs 
are conducted for individually financed sub-projects under the ABMP. 
 
·
Residual impacts 
 
Assuming that all mitigation is carried out, the residual effects will be minimal. Although ratings 
are subjective, and only relative to one another, this analysis indicates that only one activity 
(pesticide application) in the agriculture sector receives residual effects ratings above LOW-
MOD. Integrated pest management (IPM) is recommended as a mitigative measure for the 
impacts from pesticides, it is unlikely that this measure will have widespread application. The 
same residual effect (LOW-MOD) rating is given for agro-processing enterprises using 
refrigeration.  
 
·
Environmental risk
 
Overall, the environmental risk is high because effective enforcement of the law is questionable. 
Risks for those activities that could lead to impacts which can be governed by specific pieces of 
legal instrumentation would be moderate. Risks for which there is no effective legal instrument 
would vary, depending upon the nature and level of impact, and the cost of mitigation. However, 
where full mitigation is either expensive or technically challenging, environmental risk would be 
rated high. That is, the actual impacts will be much closer to the identified potential impacts than 
to the residual impacts determined if all mitigation was carried out. Of particular concern would 
be for those activities resulting in water and air pollution.  
 
·
Environmental management 
 
The environmental management plan addresses mitigation (in the form of a series of matrices for 
each potential activity and indicating for each the potential impacts, causes, consequences and 
mitigation required). Mitigation will be the responsibility of the sub-project proponent. The plan 
describes monitoring requirements and indicates the various responsibilities for this activity. 
Although MEES is officially responsible for environmental monitoring, for the ABMP additional 
monitoring responsibilities will fall to the Agribusiness and Marketing Project Implementation 
Unit (ABMPIU), the participating financial institutions (PFIs) and the World Bank.  
 
Finally, the management plan outlines an environmental capacity building program that will 
focus on ensuring that various stakeholders become more environmentally aware. Some of these 
stakeholders who have ‘hands on’ responsibilities for Project implementation will be given 
further training in environmental management, particularly in areas of impact recognition, 
appreciation of relationships between various components of the environment, recognition of 
practical mitigative solutions, and monitoring techniques and reporting. 
 
Page  12
Kyrgyz Republic ABM Project                       Environmental Impact Assessment                          April 2004
xi
·
Environmental guidelines 
 
An important accompanying document to the EIA is a set of easy to follow environmental 
guidelines to be used by those stakeholders (ABMPIU, PFIs, MEES, and borrowers) who will 
have responsibilities for environmental management. The guidelines cover World Bank 
requirements, EIA formatting, monitoring instructions and various checklists. 
 
Page  13
Kyrgyz Republic ABM Project                       Environmental Impact Assessment                          April 2004
1
1. INTRODUCTION AND BACKGROUND 
 
1.1 Purpose 
 
The purpose of the environmental impact assessment (EIA) is to examine the effects that the 
Agribusiness and Marketing Project (ABMP) may have on the environment and to provide 
solutions for the avoidance of any significant effects that could occur as a result of the Project.  
 
The assessment consists of four main components: i) a review and summary of relevant 
legislation and the adequacy of the legislation and enforcement mechanisms to ensure 
environmental protection as it relates to the Project; ii) an analysis of probable impacts, 
mitigation and residual impacts of various activities that would qualify for Project loan 
financing; iii) an analysis of the capacity of the Government of Kyrgyz Republic (KR) and 
lending institutions, to recognize and address impacts of any activity for which a loan may be 
requested; and, iv) guidelines for environmental management of the Project.
 
1.2 Agribusiness and Marketing Project
1
1.2.1 Development Objective  
 
The direct project development objectives will be to expand the level of activity of processing, 
marketing, and trade enterprises downstream of the farmgate, to increase the number and 
economic importance of producer organizations, and to build trade linkages between producers, 
and primary and secondary level trade organizations. The Project will work directly with private 
enterprises and commercial organizations to improve the competitiveness of Kyrgyz products. It 
is important that the Project be responsive to the needs of the private sector in achieving this 
goal.  Best practice from around the world shows that there needs to be an integrated effort along 
the supply chains in question if real results are to be achieved.  If project interventions are not 
targeted in this manner, the chances of achieving the ultimate objective of increased sales will 
decline.  
 
The ultimate objective of these efforts will be to increase the amount of value added to Kyrgyz 
agro-food commodities, to increase sales of those commodities both domestically and abroad, 
and to improve the operation of agricultural markets. 
 
1.2.2 Key Indicators 
 
Key outcome indicators for the Project will be: 
 
·
Increase in sales of enterprises and organizations supported by the Project  
·
Increase in profits of enterprises and organizations supported by the Project 
·
Increase in employment in enterprises and organizations supported by the Project 
·
The repayment performance of loans extended (arrears, default, etc) 
 
1
World Bank. 2004. 
Page  14
Kyrgyz Republic ABM Project                       Environmental Impact Assessment                          April 2004
2
Key output indicators for the Project will be:   
 
·
Number of commodity chains evaluated and supported 
·
Number of people completing training programs 
·
Number of enterprises with improved management capacity 
·
The number and volume of loans to agricultural producers, agro-processors and agribusiness 
 
1.2.3 Project 
Components 
 
The Project will work with commodities for which viable import substitution or export 
development opportunities have been identified through direct interaction with enterprises and 
organizations involved in those supply chains. The approach of the Project will be to work with 
those business opportunities that are relatively closer to achieving higher sales of commodities, 
rather than to take on higher-risk areas where a greater number of issues would need to be 
addressed. Working directly with private sector organizations involved in commodity supply 
chains will ensure that interventions included in the Project are targeted to real business needs 
rather than to assumptions of what those business needs might be.   
 
Given financing limitations, the Project will be able to deal with only a limited number of 
commodities. Improvement in the operation of supply chains for these commodities, however, 
will serve as models for extension further through the economy, and the business skills that are 
built within KR can serve as the basis for further economic development after the Project.  The 
business orientation of the Project means that it is critical that decision making on resource 
allocation and specific Project interventions be reserved to professional and objective business 
organizations and not be subject to political influence. 
 
·
Component 1: Market Development  
 
The Market Development Component is designed to address constraints to improved functioning 
of commodity supply chains through interventions in both the private and public sectors.  The 
critical factors here will be capacity building and establishing a framework for effective 
interaction among economic agents. Sub-components will include: i) supply chain management, 
ii) identified public sector investments, iii)
 
consultative council and public sector capacity 
building,  
 
·
Component 2: Access to Credit Component 
 
The Access to Credit Component is designed to address key constraints associated with access to 
capital by enterprises in the agricultural and food sector of the economy. Except for some of the 
larger food processors, enterprises in this sector of the economy are not currently able to access 
credit from financial institutions.  
 
There will be limited lending to agriculture and rural sectors and the reasons for this include: i) 
perceived high risks related to agricultural/rural lending; ii) lack of good business proposals and 
lack of business management capacity among potential borrowers; iii) short-term nature of the 
liquidity in the banking sector; iv) inefficient operations of the commercial banks, and; v) lack of 
Page  15
Kyrgyz Republic ABM Project                       Environmental Impact Assessment                          April 2004
3
collateral acceptable to banks. This component is comprised of four sub-components: i) 
investment facility; ii) revolving working capital fund; iii)
 
technical assistance to the 
participating financial institutions, and: iv) component management. 
 
Although the environmental impact assessment is applied to the entire Project, a focus will be 
placed upon the first two sub-components above since these are the most likely components that 
could result in activities leading to environmental impacts. 
 
1.3 World Bank Environmental Assessment Requirements 
 
The Bank undertakes environmental screening of each proposed project to determine the 
appropriate extent and type of EA. The Bank classifies the proposed project into one of four 
categories, depending on the type, location, sensitivity and scale of the project and the nature and 
magnitude of its potential environmental impacts. The four Categories are A, B, C, and FI. 
Category FI is applied to all proposed projects that involve investment of Bank funds through a 
financial intermediary (FI) to be used for sub-projects of which the environmental impacts can 
not be determined during appraisal of the World Bank project. Although the ABMP has a 
number of features of an FI category project, due to certain aspects of the Project it has been 
classified as a Category B and as such requires an EIA. Although there are a number of 
agribusiness activities (specifically agro-processing) that will be financed, like a typical FI 
category Project it is unknown as to which ones will be financed and to their location. The EIA 
will be strategic in nature, dealing with groups of agribusinesses (e.g. meat processing, fruit and 
vegetable processing, dairy processing, oilseed processing) although there will be a number of 
common features for each group. This does not negate the necessity of an EA for a sub-project 
for which an EA may normally be required. Not all lending will be for agro-processing activities 
for which it is clear that EIAs will be required. Accordingly, the participating financial 
intermediaries (PFI) will be required to ensure that borrowers conduct an appropriate EA, where 
warranted, for each sub-project. Before approving a sub-project, the PFI will verify that the sub-
project meets the environmental requirements of the Bank even though national requirements 
may have been met. 
 
In appraising a proposed sub-project, the Bank reviews the adequacy of country environmental 
requirements relevant to the sub-project and the proposed EA arrangements for sub-projects, 
including the mechanisms and responsibilities for environmental screening and review of EA 
results. When necessary, the Bank ensures that the project includes components to strengthen 
such EA arrangements. As part of the process of selecting the project’s PFIs, prospective PFIs 
will be required to provide to the Bank a written assessment of the institutional mechanisms 
(including, as necessary, identification of measures to strengthen capacity) for its sub-project EA 
work. 
If the Bank is not satisfied that adequate capacity exists for carrying out EA
,
all 
Category A sub-projects and, as appropriate, Category B -sub-projects - including EA 
reports 
–
will be subject to prior review and approval by the Bank. 
 
Page  16
Kyrgyz Republic ABM Project                       Environmental Impact Assessment                          April 2004
4
2.  LEGAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE FRAMEWORK 
 
2.1 Background and Framework 
 
The legislation of the KR has been entirely renewed since its independence in 1991. The 
Constitution was amended in 1996 and 1998 and it places the system of legal acts in the 
following hierarchy: 
 
·
Constitution 
·
Laws, international treaties and presidential decrees 
·
Government regulations 
·
Ministerial orders and decrees 
·
Regulations and regulatory decisions of local administrations 
 
2.2 Environmental Law 
 
The Law on Environmental Protection provides the general framework for comprehensive 
environmental protection and for the use of natural resources. The law “covers a wide range of 
issues including environmental standard setting, the legal regime of specially protected areas, 
rules and procedures for natural resource use, and procedures for dealing with emergencies. 
Natural resources can be used in accordance with established limits and environmental standards. 
Environmental standards include, 
inter alia
,
maximum allowable concentrations of pollutants in 
air, water, soil and sub-soil, maximum allowable effluent discharges, emissions and radiation, 
rules for the use of chemicals in agriculture, and the maximum allowable concentrations of 
chemical and biological substances in consumer goods. The Law forbids the use of toxic 
chemicals that do not decompose, and the import of radioactive wastes and materials for storage, 
disposal or transit. 
 
The Law lists the principles of environmental protection that form the conceptual basis for the 
protection of the constitutional right of individuals to a favourable and healthy environment. 
These principles give priority to measures aimed at guaranteeing the environmental protection 
rights of individuals, at respecting the sustainable development principle and at a comprehensive 
approach to regulating environmental protection and economic activities, transparency of 
decision making and the involvement of non-governmental public organizations in 
environmental activities”
2
.
“Environmental legislation is complex and includes both a comprehensive environmental 
protection law (described above) and natural resource laws (listed below and briefly described in 
Annex A). This legislation meets the generally accepted standards of law making in this area. 
Most of the laws are of a framework type and depend for enforcement on the development of 
sometimes numerous government regulations.”
3
Environmental laws should be continually 
updated to reflect new developments and the impacts that these can have on aspects of the 
environment.  
2
UNCEO. 2000. 
3
Ibid. 
Page  17
Kyrgyz Republic ABM Project                       Environmental Impact Assessment                          April 2004
5
From the perspective of securing environmental safety the following laws are considered to be 
the most important: 
 
·
Law On Protection of Population in case of Emergency Situations as of February 24, 
2000;  
·
Law On Radiological Safety of Population as of June 17, 1999;  
·
Law On Drinking Water as of March 25, 1999; 
·
Law On Sanitary and Epidemiological Well-being of Population as of April 17, 2000; 
·
Law On Radioactive Waste Treatment as of February 12, 2001; 
·
Law On Mining Waste Tailings and Heaps as of June 26, 2001; 
·
Law On Interstate Use of Water Objects, Water Resources and Water Facilities as of 
July 23, 2001; 
·
Law On Agricultural Land Management as of January 11, 2001; 
·
Law On Unions (Associations) of Water Users as of March 15, 2002; 
·
Law On Mineral Resources Sharing Agreements as of April 10, 2002; 
·
Law on Mountainous Territories as of November 1, 2002; 
·
Law on Biodiversity Preservation Strategy as of August 3, 2002; 
·
Land Code of the KR as of June 2, 1999; and 
·
Forestry Code of the KR as of July 8, 1999. 
 
Environmental objectives and priorities for KR are outlined in The Concept of Ecological 
Security, the National Environmental Action Plan (1995-97) and the draft national programme 
for environmental protection and the rational use of natural resources for the period up to 2005. 
The country’s most urgent environmental problems define its priorities 
viz a viz
 international 
cooperation. These problems include: 
 
·
Disposal of nuclear tailings 
·
Weak pollution control and monitoring 
·
Desertification and land degradation 
·
Water allocation with neighbouring countries 
 
2.3 International Cooperation 
 
KR has signed and ratified the following environmentally related global conventions: 
 
·
Convention on Biological Diversity 
·
Convention on the Control of Transboundary Movements of Hazardous Wastes and their 
Disposal (Basel Convention) 
·
Convention to Combat Desertification 
·
Convention on the Prior Informed Consent Procedure for Certain Hazardous Chemicals and 
Pesticides in International Trade (Rotterdam Convention)  
·
Vienna Convention on Ozone Layer Protection, and Montreal Protocol on Ozone Layer 
Depleting Substances  (ratified by the Law of the KR # 16 as of January 15, 2000) 
Page  18
Kyrgyz Republic ABM Project                       Environmental Impact Assessment                          April 2004
6
·
On KR accession to the UN European Economic Commission Convention On 
Environmental Impact Assessment in a Transboundary Context (ratified by the Law of the 
KR # 6 as of January 12, 2001) 
·
Convention on Access to Information, Public Participation and Justice on Environmental 
Issues (ratified by the Law of the KR #5 as of January 15, 2001) 
Convention on Climate Change and UN EEC Convention on Long-range Transboundary Air 
Pollution  
·
Convention on Protection of New Plant Species as of January 14, 2000 
·
Convention of Wetlands of International Importance as Habitats for Waterfowl (Ramsar 
Convention) as of April 10, 2002 
·
Law of KR On Ratification of London, Copenhagen, and Montreal Amendments to 
Montreal Protocol On Ozone Layer Depleting Substances  
·
Convention on Climate Change (Kyoto Protocol) (currently under review by Parliament) 
Convention On World Cultural and Natural Heritage Protection 
·
Convention on Persistent Organic Pollutants (Stockholm) 
 
The Ministry of Ecology and Emergency Situations (MEES) is responsible for cooperation in the 
Inter-State Ecological Council of CIS (Commonwealth of Independent States). Through this 
Council the KR is involved, however, the following two have significance as they regulate land 
use: 
 
Norm-setting documents issued by MEES and normative documents of other state institutions 
are listed in Annex A. 
 
2.4  Environmental Policy Objectives 
 
The overall objectives of environmental policy are determined in the Strategy for Sustainable 
Human Development. This strategy targets an economic growth that is accompanied by a 
minimum impact on the environment. The Ecological Safety Concept was decreed in 1996 and it 
states that sustainable development is a prerequisite for the ecological safety of the nation. It 
recognizes that the depletion and pollution of natural resources leads to economic recession in 
the long term and that this fall in turn leads to reduced economic activity resulting in poverty and 
further demand on the natural resource base. 
 
The National Environmental Action Plan (NEAP) that was adopted in 1995 for the 1995-1997 
period stated that environmental protection is viewed as both a tool and a condition for achieving 
broad development goals. The environmental objectives as stated in NEAP included:  
 
·
Reduce urban air pollution 
·
Use water resources efficiently and economically, and improve waste-water treatment 
·
Protect arable lands against degradation 
·
Establish a system of sustainable use of plant resources, including forests 
·
Update the Red Books 
·
Expand the system of specially protected areas and biosphere reserves 
·
Rehabilitate radioactive dumpsites and ensure their safe operation 
·
Control the production, treatment, transport and disposal of toxic wastes 
Page  19
Kyrgyz Republic ABM Project                       Environmental Impact Assessment                          April 2004
7
·
Register harmful substances 
·
Improve the environmental monitoring system 
 
2.5  Environmental Management Responsibilities 
 
In 1996 the State Committee on Nature Protection was converted to the Ministry of 
Environmental Protection. The most recent restructuring was adopted in March 1999.  
 
According to the Presidential Decree of December 28, 2000 the Ministry of Ecology and 
Emergency Situations (MEES) was established by merger of the former Ministry of 
Environmental Protection and Ministry of Emergency Situations and Civil Defense.  Figure 2.1 
below shows the current management structure of MEES. 
 
MEES is a public governance body with statutory responsibilities in the areas of ecological 
management, prevention and elimination of emergency situations, civil defense, industrial safety 
and mountain control. The head Division of the Hydro-meteorological Agency in August 1998 
became a part of the Ministry of Environmental Protection and later MEES, and is responsible 
for monitoring meteorological, hydrological, and agro-meteorological conditions, as well as 
monitoring the overall state of the environment. 
 
This ministry is the key institution in charge of environmental policy and nature protection 
regulations. It coordinates the system of environmental management within all sectors of the 
economy, developing and enforcing all environmental standards and regulations. It also assists 
the government in designing and implementing policies and investment programs for 
environmental protection. The Ministry’s main operational responsibilities include 
environmental data collection, pollution control, the granting of permits for the use of natural 
resources, the management of protected areas, and environmental impact assessments. 
 
The Ministry has approximately 150 employs and is represented at head office in Bishkek as 
well as in each of the oblasts. It is composed of nine main units, two of which are relative to the 
activities of ABMP, namely, the Department of Ecological Expertise and the Department of 
Environmental Monitoring. 
 
Page  20
Kyrgyz Republic ABM Project                       Environmental Impact Assessment                          April 2004
8
Figure 2.1 
 
Management Structure (relevant to EIAs) 
of the Ministry of Ecology 
 
and Emergency Situations 
 
Minister 
National 
Environmental Fund
Deputy Minister for 
Ecology 
Department of 
Ecological Expertises
Department for 
Ecology and
 
Nature 
Management 
Page  21
Kyrgyz Republic ABM Project                       Environmental Impact Assessment                          April 2004
9
Territorial 
environmental 
departments (7 oblast, 2 
municipal, local 
environmetnal funds 
Page  22
Kyrgyz Republic ABM Project                       Environmental Impact Assessment                          April 2004
10
2.6  Enforcement Responsibilities 
 
According to Decree # 295 of May 25, 2000 and Decree # 59 as of February 24, 2001 of the 
Government of the KR the following executive and specially authorized state bodies are 
responsible for enforcement of constitutional principles and legislative acts in the domains of 
ecology and environmental protection: 
 
1)  Ministry of Ecology and Emergency Situations (MEES) 
2) State Forestry Department 
3)  Ministry of Health (MoH) 
4)  Ministry of Internal Affairs 
5)  Ministry of Agriculture, Water and Processing Industry (MAWRPI) 
6)  State Geology and Mineral Resources Agency under the Government of the KR 
7)  State Real Estate Registration Agency under the Government of the KR 
 
In line with the decree, Bodies of Public Prosecution, the Ministry of National Security (MNS) 
of the KR, the Interior Ministry of the KR, and the State Customs Inspectorate under the 
Ministry of Finance (MoF) of the KR shall assist MEES bodies and other specially authorized 
bodies on environmental protection in implementing measures aimed at protection and rational 
use of natural resources, and provision of environmental safety. 
 
Page  23
Kyrgyz Republic ABM Project                       Environmental Impact Assessment                          April 2004
11
The MAWRPI is responsible for water resources management and environmental policy issues 
concerning soil degradation, the application of agrochemicals and farming. 
 
2.7  Environmental Impact Assessment and Procedure 
 
EIA requirements were established by the 1997 Regulation of the Ministry of Environmental 
Protection (now MEES) on Procedures of EIA, and, the Law on Ecological Expertise. 
 
A
total of 23 types of activities and projects are subject to EIA. Included in this list are 
agricultural development projects and food processing plants. 
 
The EIA aims to determine the impacts on the environment of the project and to decide on the 
feasibility of the project. EIAs for large national projects (e.g. mines) and the consequent EE are 
conducted by government from headquarters. At headquarters the Department of Ecological 
Expertise (EE) has a staff of four but this staff is supplemented from a roster of experts that can 
be recruited when an EE is required. No fewer than three experts would be involved in providing 
an EE. Representatives of the Ministry at the oblast level conduct EEs for smaller projects. 
 
The large projects may also have independent EIAs conducted by NGOs and various experts. 
 
The approval process is conducted in five stages: 
 
.
submission of the Declaration of Intent regarding the project to the MEES for approval 
.
submission of the business plan and design plan to the MEES 
.
preparation of the EIA 
 
. assessment of the expected impacts 
 
. statement on impacts 
.
submission of the EIA 
.
decision to approve or not to approve activity (if the decision is negative, the proponent may 
wish to redesign, with impacts in mind, and resubmit a new proposal) 
 
The EIA will include information on both short and long-term impacts of the activity on various 
aspects of the environment. These impacts will include those on the natural, social and economic 
components of the environment as well as in all stages of development and implementation of 
the activity. The EIA will also report on potential cumulative impacts. By law the public and 
NGOs are invited to take part in the EIA process.  
 
Once the EIA has been reviewed, completed and approved the Ministry will issue an EE.  
 
2.8  Public Involvement 
 
The Law on Environmental Protection states that citizens have the right to obtain full and 
accurate information about the state of the environment and the health of the population. Written 
information can be attained, upon request, at a modest cost, and within six weeks of submitted 
request. Operators of activities and projects that result in pollution are obligated to inform the 
Page  24
Kyrgyz Republic ABM Project                       Environmental Impact Assessment                          April 2004
12
MEES and through its weekly radio program
4
,
inform the general public on major environmental 
issues. 
 
The Government is also obliged to publish a quarterly environmental bulletin. The only 
obligation of an industrial facility to the public is through the EIA. 
 
2.9 Monitoring and Environmental Performance 
 
The Law states that there be a system of environmental monitoring based on standardized 
methods and norms. The Department of Hydrometeorology within the MEES is responsible for a 
network of monitoring stations and gathers data on air, water and land quality. The Department 
also operates a climate monitoring system. The Department’s observation stations measure 
chemical pollution in cities, industrial centres and residential areas. Monitored pollutants include 
dust, sulphur dioxide, nitrogen dioxide and carbon dioxide. As well, other pollutants including 
phenol, ammonia, xylene, toluene, benzo(a)pyrene and heavy metals (Pb,Cd,Cu) can be 
monitored. 
 
Industrial activities are not self-monitoring due to a lack of equipment and the legal requirement 
to conduct such monitoring.  
 
The MEES is responsible for monitoring industrial emissions as well as emissions from mobile 
sources, but most oblasts lack self-monitoring equipment. During environmental inspection of 
pollution sources, emission sampling may take place, however, no standardized protocols for 
monitoring are adopted and inspections are irregular. 
 
Water quality is regularly monitored by a number of agencies including MEES (water 
discharges), State Agency for Geology and Mineral Resources (groundwater), the 
Hydrometeorological Institute (surface waters) and the Sanitary Epidemiological Department 
(drinking water). MEES examines water for the presence of microbial and chemical 
contamination (pesticides, heavy metals, nitrates and PCBs). 
 
2.11 Capacity for Environmental Management
 
2.11.1 Government of Kyrgyz Republic 
 
Environmental assessments at the National level are conducted by licensed external groups. The 
quality of the EAs prepared meet National requirements and the licensed groups are well trained 
in various relevant disciplines. The Department of Ecological Expertise, which has the role of 
reviewing and passing judgement on EAs, has a core staff of four qualified individuals. When 
necessary the group is supplemented by experts from other relevant ministries and departments. 
The staff available and the experts from other departments are all well qualified. At the oblast 
level where EAs are conducted and inspections carried out on less significant projects staff are 
well qualified, particularly the more senior staff, however, younger staff would benefit from 
additional appropriate training. The main constraint to the MEES oblast staff is the lack of up-to-
4
UNECO. 2000. 
Page  25
Kyrgyz Republic ABM Project                       Environmental Impact Assessment                          April 2004
13
date laboratory equipment and supplies, computers and operating budget, particularly that 
required for field visits.  
 
If agricultural production activities are to be eligible for loans through the ABMP farmers will be 
directly involved in considering the effects of the loan activities on the environment. Although 
significant agricultural inputs (e.g. irrigation schemes, major livestock purchase) would be 
required to undergo an EIA and would be subject to ecological expertise, small farm operations 
requiring small loans will probably not require an EIA or ecological expertise. Farmers’ general 
knowledge of environmental requirements and environmentally sound agricultural practices is, 
for the most part, not extensive and some basic environmental awareness, particularly in areas 
relevant to the important agricultural inputs, would be useful.   
 
2.11.2  Participating Financial Institutions 
 
Financial institutions have no capacity for environmental management. The financial institution, 
when considering a loan application from a prospective borrower, will require the necessary 
permits and permissions, one of which will be environmental permission emanating from the 
Department of Ecological Expertise. As far as the PFI is concerned, if the proposed project has 
received a favourable opinion and a permit that states the allowable emissions and discharges, 
has been issued by MEES, the PFI will proceed to favour the loan (providing that all other 
regulatory requirements are met). 
 
2.11.3  Consulting Community 
 
There are independent consulting firms and individuals that provide environmental assessment 
services. Certainly some of these are well qualified whereas others may lack the knowledge of 
conducting comprehensive EAs to the extent required by the Bank. 
2.11.4  Agribusiness 
 
The level of environmental knowledge within the agribusiness sector varies and much of their 
current knowledge is based on their contacts with the MEES Department of Inspectorate which 
conducts frequent soil, air and water quality examinations to ensure that the businesses are 
meeting the set standards for emissions and discharges. Many agribusinesses ask the MEES for 
advice in advance in order to avoid downstream problems whereas others, as can be expected, 
will have knowledge of some of the requirements but will attempt to circumvent the regulations 
to avoid additional costs. In many cases they are prepared to pay the fines for exceeding the 
standards, since the fines are a much less costly expense than reducing emissions or introducing 
new emission and discharge control equipment. It is most likely that many businesses are not 
aware of the effect that various aspects of their respective enterprises may have on the 
environment. In this regard they should be made aware of the impacts that can occur and the 
most practical measures to be taken to avoid these impacts.  
 
3. METHODOLOGY 
 
3.1 Legal Instrumentation and Management Capacity   
 
Page  26
Kyrgyz Republic ABM Project                       Environmental Impact Assessment                          April 2004
14
Reference was made to two main documents; the UNICO 2000 report on the Kyrgyz Republic 
environment, and the environmental review for the World Bank supported village infrastructure 
project (2003). As well, MEES staff at headquarters and at the oblast level also provided 
information.  
 
3.2 Public Involvement 
 
Non-government organizations as well as members of the ABMPPU were invited to a round-
table discussion (February 19, 2004) during the preparation of the draft EIA. This roundtable was 
held to explain the Project. More importantly the discussion was used to allow these 
organizations to express their views regarding important environmental issues as these relate to 
components of the Project, particularly agro-processing. The round-table participants included: 
 
Emil Shukurov 
–
Aleine 
Casimir Karimov – Environmental Protection Fund 
Gulnar Mamitbekova – Centre for Joint Hygiene and Sanitation 
Lyudmila Sapozhnikova – Environmental Information Agency Green Women 
Anna Kirlilenko – Youth Environmental Movement “Biom”  
Oleg Pechenuk – Independent Environmental Assessment 
Svetlana Bortsova – Independent Environmental Assessment 
Tologon Mamatov - ABMPPU  
Burul Nazarmatova – ABMPPU 
 
An advertisement was taken out in Bishkek’s main newspaper (March 26 – see front inside 
cover) to invite interested members of the public wishing to review the draft EIA in the offices of 
the ABMPPU at the MAWRPI over a one week period. As well, individual invitations were 
extended to the participating NGOs of the round table to review the draft EIA at the PPU offices 
in the MAWRPI. 
 
A
summary of the draft EIA was circulated to the relevant government ministries and 
departments for their review and comment. 
 
The final EIA report was submitted to the World Bank InfoShop for public review. As well, the 
final EIA is available for review at the World Bank Resident Mission office in Bishkek as well 
as at the ABMPP in the MAWRPI. 
 
3.3  Determination of Potential Impacts  
 
Similar environmental reviews of similar projects in other countries in the Bank’s ECA Region 
have been conducted over the past five years. In those reviews potential sub-project activities to 
be financed through the respective projects were identified through a general knowledge of the 
likely requests from the client base and through interviews with participants in the agricultural 
and general rural development field. In each of these projects (six similar projects in six different 
ECA region countries) for the agricultural component a list of 20 potential on-farm inputs was 
prepared. This list has stood the test of time over the past five years and has been used in this 
Project. The AFC study identified a number of agro-processing and marketing activities that 
Page  27
Kyrgyz Republic ABM Project                       Environmental Impact Assessment                          April 2004
15
could be considered for financing and these activities have been adopted here. Field visits to a 
selection of agro-processing activities, along with knowledge gained from the previous six 
project environmental reviews, and in addition, input from the NGO round table discussion, 
provided the basis upon which potential impacts were identified.  
 
3.4  Baseline Data 
 
Only secondary data has been collected for this assessment. Since the review is sectoral in nature 
the data that has been collected and described in Section 4 includes only descriptive general 
country-wide information and does not reflect any one particular site where a sub-project may 
occur. Agribusinesses identified by baseline studies conducted for the Project have been adopted 
for the EIA. It is likely that additional enterprises will come forward to be considered for loans 
and these will have to be addressed as they are identified. 
 
3.5  Scoping and Bounding
5
The basis of scoping has been the identification of the Important Environmental Components 
(IECs). These are the environmental features relevant to the Project and which are deemed 
important enough for focus during the environmental assessment process in order to protect 
against negative impacts. The IECs were initially identified using previous similar EA’s, using 
knowledge based on field observation, during discussions with the stakeholders in the workshop 
with NGOs, and, giving consideration to the existing important environmental issues in KR. The 
list of IECs was subsequently modified through the course of the review. The IECs are listed in 
Section 5.4. 
 
The ABMP, through the PFI, will provide loan money to farmers, agro-processing enterprises 
and others throughout the RK. Accordingly, for bounding purposes the entire country has been 
selected. Considering that agro-processing and certain agricultural production activities can have 
an impact on downstream water resources, regional countries, which receive surface water flows 
from the KR, have also been considered for bounding purposes. In considering the effects that 
exported seed and plants (and their packaging) could have on other countries in terms of their 
potential to harbor diseases and pests, very general bounding includes the countries of the region 
as well as Russia. It is unlikely that agricultural produce or processed foods would be exported 
beyond this geographical area (i.e.South Asia, SE Asia or the Europe). As well, importation of 
raw materials for agro-processing purposes into KR must be considered since these materials 
could also harbor diseases and pests not indigenous to KR and which could affect national 
agricultural production as well as indigenous plant and animal communities. 
 
3.6 Criteria for Impact Assessment 
 
5
Scoping: Identification of the potential impacts that are relevant and significant in order to contain the extent of the 
assessment 
Bounding: placing a realistic geographic limit on the assessment 
Page  28
Kyrgyz Republic ABM Project                       Environmental Impact Assessment                          April 2004
16
Criteria used for determining the significance of an impact includes severity, extent, duration, 
frequency, possibility of occurrence, and possibility of reversibility of the impact. The extent of 
each of the criteria was based on judgement and no consideration was given to numerical 
ranking.  
 
Seven types of agro-processing industries (refer to Table 3.1) have been considered for this 
assessment. Some have the potential for resulting in serious impacts on the environment whereas 
most others are generally harmless. Environmental impact matrices have been prepared for each 
industry type. As well the EIA considers warehouses and markets and impact matrices have been 
prepared. 
 
Table 3.1: Agro-processing Industries 
 
Dairy processing 
Frozen foods processing 
Fruit and vegetable processing 
Abattoirs and meat processing 
Tanneries 
Flour mills 
Cotton ginning 
Oil processing (including maize)
 
Of the 20 farm inputs listed in Table 3.2, three of these as indicated by * will not have any 
impact. The remaining 17 inputs will have varying levels of potential impact and for each of 
these a matrix has been established that describes the potential impacts that can be expected, the 
causes and the consequences of these impacts. The mitigative solutions to these are also 
provided. Each input is given a level of impact significance prior to mitigation and a level of 
significa
nce (for the residual impact) assuming that mitigation is carried out. All ‘levels of 
significance’ ratings (Table 3.3), and other ratings, are relative and subjective. 
 
Table 3.2: Probable Uses of Farm Credit 
 
.
Seed 
.
Pedigree and HYV seed 
.
Fertilizer 
.
Pesticides 
.
Pedigree livestock* 
.
Livestock for finishing 
.
Land rental 
.Tractors  
Page  29
Kyrgyz Republic ABM Project                       Environmental Impact Assessment                          April 2004
17
.
Farm implements (land preparation, 
sowing and harvesting implements)  
.
Land preparation (tractor hire) 
.
Small equipment* 
.
Grain drying equipment 
.
Irrigation equipment 
.
Vehicles (for market and land        
access)  
.
Farm buildings for stock, 
machinery, and chemicals 
.
Storage facilities (fuel, grain and 
other produce) 
.
Fencing materials* 
.
Primary processing equipment (e.g. 
milking equipment) 
.
Fuel, lubricants, spare parts and 
other operating requirements 
.
Veterinary services 
3.7 Cumulative Effects 
 
A
very broad analysis of the cumulative effects has been conducted. Of particular importance is 
the cumulative effect within individual watersheds where water quality can be significantly 
affected. The analysis has been based on professional judgement only and the analysis is not 
sufficiently thorough due to the lack of knowledge of other sectoral activities and future planned 
activities. As well at this stage there is no way of knowing to which farming areas or agro-
processing activities loans will be directed. Thus only general statements can be made regarding 
the significance of cumulative effects.  
 
Table 3.3: Level of Significance of Potential Impact 
 
Level of Significance 
Description (examples)* 
Very High Significance 
Potential impact of the sub-project** could cause damage to 
an IEC over a large area affected (e.g. loss of important 
habitat, loss of biodiversity, loss of large areas of productive 
land). Mitigation is not possible and the impact is irreversible.  
High Significance 
Potential impact of the enterprise could cause irreparable 
damage to a small area (e.g. on site) of an IEC; or, potential 
impact could cause damage to an IEC over a large area, but 
the ecosystem can still function (e.g. surface water 
contamination causing limited aquatic ecosystem damage). 
The impact is reversible over a long period of time. 
Moderate Significance 
Potential impact damages an ecosystem over a small area 
but it is still functional and the damage is reversible over a 
long period of time. Damage to an ecosystem over a large 
area, still functional, and the damage is reversible over a 
relatively short period of time. 
Page  30
Kyrgyz Republic ABM Project                       Environmental Impact Assessment                          April 2004
18
Low Significance 
Potential impact of the enterprise could cause damage to an 
IEC over a small area but system still very functional and 
damage is reversible over a short period. 
No Impact 
Non measurable impact. 
*
Description here is only an example using the biophysical resource base 
** Sub-project refers to an agro-processing or farming activity.
Page  31
Kyrgyz Republic ABM Project                       Environmental Impact Assessment                          
A
pril 2004
19
 
4. THE ENVIRONMENT 
 
4.1
 
The Biophysical Resource 
 
4.1.1 General 
 
The KR is located in the center of Eurasia. It shares borders with Kazakhstan, China, 
Uzbekistan and Tajikistan and represents an area of 198,500 sq. km. Altitudes in the 
country range from 500 
–
7,439m
above sea level. The mountain systems of the Tien 
Shan and the Pamirs comprise approximately 90% of the country’s area. Rivers in the 
country are associated with four non-draining Central Asian basins; the Aral, Tarim, 
Issyk-Kul, and Balkhash basins. Overall, the annual flow of these rivers is about 50 km
3
.
Of the five Central Asian republics, KR is the richest in water including Lake Issuk-Kul, 
which is the world’s second largest alpine lake. 
 
The country lies over 3,000km from the nearest ocean and has an arid, continental 
climate with hot summers and cold, snowy winters. At one extreme is the heat and aridity 
of the valleys in the foothills with average January temperatures of 0 degrees C (32 F), 
whilst usually exceeding 26 degrees C (79 F) in July, and precipitation in the same month 
generally less than 10 mm. At the other end of the spectrum are the cold temperatures and 
high precipitation of the mountains with average January temperatures below  -28 
degrees C (-15 F), July temperatures remaining below + 6 degrees C (43 F) and 
precipitation in July between 100-150 mm. In different parts of the country precipitation 
throughout the year is generally between 100-1000 mm, and the frost-free period is 
between 130–310 days. In areas above 3,500–4,000m elevation, snow and glaciers are 
permanent. 
 
Only 7% of the country is arable and many of these areas require irrigation and/or 
drainage. Agriculture is concentrated in the low areas. Semi-savannas and savannas 
represent the main vegetation zones in the hilly areas below the alpine regions and until 
recently about 45% of the land area was used for extensive sheep and cattle rearing.  
 
Forests cover about 4.2% of the country and most forests are found between 1,300m and 
2,800m altitude. 
 
4.1.2  Biodiversity and Forests 
 
The country is comprised of 22 different ecosystems. Forest types include: spruce forest 
(2,772 sq. km); juniper forest (3,166 sq. km); broad leafed forest, include fruit and walnut 
forest (464 sq. km); river forest (tugai) (226 sq. km); small-leafed forest (711 sq. km); 
mid-mountains shrubland (3,287 sq. km); and, almond and pistachio forest (182 sq. km). 
Other ecosystems and land use include: savanna (6,081 sq. km); criophillic and mid-
mountain meadows (36,006 sq. km); criophillic and mid-mountain steppes (39,056 sq. 
km); dry-farming land (bogara) (2,791 sq. km); criophillic and mid-mountain deserts 
(4,454 sq. km); foothill desert (8,768 sq. km); cultivated land (12,475 sq. km); and, 
glacier and sub-glacier (11,527 sq. km). 
Page  32
Kyrgyz Republic ABM Project                       Environmental Impact Assessment                          
A
pril 2004
20
 
All natural ecosystems are to some degree affected by human activities. Some 
ecosystems such as foothill steppes and deserts have been almost entirely eliminated, 
whilst the area and species composition of other ecosystems has been drastically altered. 
A
number of ecosystem types are very fragile and threatened by human activity, the most 
threatened of which are the fruit and nut forests of the south (threatened by overuse); the 
fragile mountain forest communities; the steppes that are in proximity to human 
settlements; high mountain meadows; steppes and deserts (threatened by overgrazing); 
and areas of semi-desert and dry steppe (which are easily degraded through grazing). 
 
Although the biodiversity of temperate regions is generally poor when compared to the 
tropics, comparison with global indices shows that the biological diversity of the KR is 
substantial. For a small country (0.13% of the world’s landmass) the KR displays good 
representation of all terrestrial taxonomic groups. Furthermore, species richness (over 
20,000 species, or 0.8% of known species) is higher than expected for a country of this 
size in this region, with above average species richness for the Central Asian Region. 
 
Records for different taxa are uneven. Species richness of higher vascular plants (about 
4000) and vertebrates (about 500) is well known. Lower plants (including fungi) and 
invertebrates have also been studied intensively. Among all fauna there are 368 types of 
bird and 83 mammal species, including snow leopard (
Uncia uncia
), wolf (
Canis lupis
), 
dhole (
Cuon alpinus
), sousliks or ground squirrels (
Spermophilus spp
.)
and unique giant 
Menzbier’s marmot (
Marmota menzbieri
). A number of species are found only in the KR. 
These endemic species and subspecies include over 200 plant species, around 3,240 
invertebrate species (including 2,760 endemic arthropods) and 17 vertebrate species, as 
well as a further 47 sub-endemic vertebrates. Almost 30% of arthropods and nearly 60% 
of mollusks in KR are thought to be endemic. Among vertebrate species, a number of 
endemic species have been recorded: 12 fish, two reptiles, two amphibians and one bird. 
In addition, several mammalian species and sub-species are endemic to the region, 
including the Tien Shan mouse (
Microtus kirgisorum
)
and the Tien Shan brown bear 
(
Ursusu arctos isabellinus
). The globally threatened Menzbier’s marmot (
Marmota 
menzbieri
)
is also endemic to the Tien Shan region. 
 
Some of the species occurring in the KR have obvious economic or aesthetic importance. 
For example, the country supports a high diversity of wildflowers, over 70 species; and a 
range of native and introduced fish species, which form the basis for the country’s 
fisheries. The KR’s extensive botanical resources also include over 600 species of wild 
plants that have socioeconomic value including 200 species of medicinal plants. Plants 
with clear economic value include 
Plygonum coriarium, Glycyrhiza glabra, Polygonum, 
Berberis, Pheum wittrockii, Anabasis aphylla,
 
Ferula, Euphorbia ferganica, Onosma 
and
 
Thymus
.
There has been a decline in the population of many species and 9.5% and 18.1% of the 
bird and mammal species respectively in 1994 were considered to be at risk of extinction. 
It was stated in that same year that a number of rare and valuable ecosystems had nearly 
disappeared and forest cover had more than halved in the previous 50 years and most of 
Page  33
Kyrgyz Republic ABM Project                       Environmental Impact Assessment                          
A
pril 2004
21
this removal occurred in the period 1930 to 1950. Forest protection began in 1947 as a 
result of heavy harvesting and in the period of the 5
0’s to the 90’s overgrazing became a 
serious threat to the forests as well. Since 1982 all felling, with the exception of sanitary 
cuttings, has been banned although today there is continuing pressure on the forest as a 
result of rural poverty and high-energy prices. 
 
Another cause for biodiversity loss is a result of past grazing practices. Biodiversity was 
affected in the past under the former Soviet practice of transporting cattle herds into the 
mountains for summer grazing. Today this is not economically feasible and as a result of 
the past impact, alpine grasslands were invaded with weeds. Ironically, the only practical 
way of controlling the permanent weed population is to reintroduce grazing and on a 
sustainable basis. This would control weeds and allow for the successful re-establishment 
of the original plant community as well as its related faunal population.
6
Walnut forests on the northern slopes of west Tien Shan are unique and extremely rich in 
biodiversity. These forests are considered to be the source of domestic nut and fruit trees 
all over the world.
 
Spruce forests containing the unique blue Tien Shan spruce, grow 
mainly in the north of the country. The largest forest in the country is Arslanbob and 
covers an area of 600,000ha. Over 1500 tonnes of walnuts are harvested annually in the 
Arslanbob valley in addition to 500 tonnes of pistachios, apples, cherries and plums. 
 
4.1.3 Water Resources 
 
KR is comprised of six main catchment basins and its mountainous region contains the 
headwaters of more than 3,500 rivers that feed into the transboundary waterways flowing 
into other Central Asian countries. Two of these rivers are the key waterways that drain 
into the Aral Sea. On average the KR’s annual allocation of this water is 11.6 billion m
3
and although this water has been fully utilized in the past, due to the reduction in 
agriculture, KR abstracted less than 9 billion m
3
in 1998. 
 
KR also has large reserves of groundwater.  Potential proven annual reserves are 44.5 
billion m
3
.
85% of the country benefits from a positive water balance. The remaining area 
experiences a negative balance with water losses through the recharging of underground 
aquifers, irrigation and evaporation. 
 
4.2 The Environment and Agriculture
7,8
 
Agriculture is important to the Kyrgyz economy as it accounts for about 35% of GDP. 
Associated processing and the service and trade industries bring this contribution up to 
over 40% of GDP. Agriculture contributes to approximately one-third of the country’s 
employment. An additional 10 percent of the labor force is employed in agriculture-
6
Emil Shukurov, Biodiversity Project. Personal communication. 
7
World Bank. 2004 
8
IDA and GoKR. 1999. 
Page  34
Kyrgyz Republic ABM Project                       Environmental Impact Assessment                          
A
pril 2004
22
related industries, mostly agribusiness enterprises. However, there is little value added 
downstream of the farmgate. Supply chain linkages are weak and unreliable and it is 
estimated that only about 15% of agricultural produce by value go to manufacturing sub-
sectors. There is limited aggregation of product in marketing. 
 
Agricultural land, including all rangeland, covers 53.1% of the country. Arable lands 
cover 1.3 million ha and this includes irrigated areas. Perennial cultures cover 44,800 ha, 
hayfields cover 159,500 ha, pastures cover 9.1 million ha and leys cover 18,500 ha. 
Livestock breeding (sheep, horses, cattle) generates 60% of gross agricultural income and 
crop production (grains, cotton, tobacco, fruits, sugar beet) 40 %. Agriculture is 
considered the basis of the country’s economy. 
 
About 1.06 million ha or over 80 percent of arable land is irrigated. The main crops 
grown include wheat, barely, maize, cotton, tobacco, sugar beet, sunflower, potatoes, 
vegetables, fruits, and fodder crops. Winter wheat is the dominant cereal crop, accounting 
for over 40 percent of the area usually under grains. The major livestock products are 
meat, milk, wool and eggs. Yields from irrigated land are about 2 –5 times higher than 
those on non-irrigated lands.
 
Livestock rearing is an important component of the agricultural sector due to the 
country’s considerable grazing resource. This resource includes a pasture area of 
approximately 8.8 million hectares and forage areas of some 600,000 hectares (of which 
400,000 hectares is irrigated alfalfa and other legumes). However, past government 
policy that focused solely on increasing livestock numbers has resulted in considerable 
degradation of the resource (e.g. biodiversity loses in alpine areas). 
 
During the 20 year period between 1975 and 1995 the reduction in cultivated land per 
capita is attributed to a number of causes including soil erosion (5.6 million ha affected), 
destruction of soil cover (mudslides, landslides, avalanches), salinization (1.17 million ha 
affected), waterlogging (89,200 ha affected), loss of humus, weed growth, exposure of 
rocky surfaces (3.8 million ha affected). These losses are as a result of a number of poor 
agricultural practices including overgrazing, poor crop management, and poor irrigation 
design and management. As well, urbanization, road construction, hydro engineering and 
various industrial enterprises have contributed to the loss of agricultural lands. 
 
Degraded soils has resulted in lower crop productivity, lower pastureland productivity 
and thus lower animal productivity, and a necessary increase in the amounts of chemical 
fertilizer required to maintain previous crop yields.  
 
About 1.06 million ha of the cultivable area are irrigated. Fodder crops and cereals are 
the main irrigated crops and their yields are generally about two to five times higher than 
yields on non-irrigated land. 
 
Since 1991the application of agricultural chemicals has sharply declined. Although this 
has had positive effects on the environment, nevertheless, soil organic matter remains 
low, as does general soil fertility. The dramatic reduction in fertilizer application and the 
Page  35
Kyrgyz Republic ABM Project                       Environmental Impact Assessment                          
A
pril 2004
23
reduction in pesticides down to a low of 0.3kg/ha in 1998 have dramatically reduced crop 
yields. On the other hand, the decrease in the concentration of pesticides in food and the 
environment in general has been dramatic. 
 
On the positive side, agricultural policy supports and encourages the application of 
biological pest and disease control (in 1999 KR produced biological means sufficient for 
control on about 70,000ha of cultivated land) as well as improving organic content of the 
soil. However, target yields can only be met with increased soil fertility and the policy 
stipulates the use of chemical inputs.   
 
4.3 Social Environment
9
KR’s population in 1999 was 4.8 million and the country’s fertility rate is twice that of 
Western Europe. The average population density is 24/km
2
,
which is 71% of the Central 
Asian average and 20% of the European average. About 35% of the population live in 
urban areas and there is a trend for this percentage to increase as rural people migrate to 
cities in search of employment. 
 
Life expectancy in 1998 was 67.1 years. Expectancy declined between 1991 and 1995 
and the most significant impact on the decline in life expectancy was the increased 
mortality in the older groups of the population. Since that time it has been slowly 
increasing. Infant mortality is more than twice the European average and this mortality 
varies greatly within the country. 
 
Diseases of the circulatory system and the respiratory 
system are the most common causes of death in the country. 
Diseases of the digestive system and infectious diseases 
also count for a significant number of deaths at rates 
considerably higher than those of Europe. These trends in 
mortality due to these two latter causes may be associated 
with poor sanitary conditions and a deteriorating quality of 
drinking water and food.  
 
Most of the drinking water for Bishkek is sourced from deep groundwater supplies and 
several locations in the Bishkek area being polluted with nitrates and petroleum products. 
Many villages in the rural areas source their water from surface waterways including 
irrigation canals. The risk of this latter source was demonstrated by the outbreak of 
typhoid in the Osh region in 1998. Water treatment is not consistent and leakage in 
distribution lines is a common occurrence. Breakdowns in the water distribution network 
in Bishkek are frequent and replacement of faulty pipes is at a slow rate. As well, the 
9
UNECO. 2000. 
Page  36
Kyrgyz Republic ABM Project                       Environmental Impact Assessment                          
A
pril 2004
24
city’s sewage system is in poor condition, a situation that can lead to secondary 
contamination of drinking water. 
 
Only 30% of the country’s 350 wastewater treatment plants meet sanitary standards and 
the discharge of wastewater constitutes a significant burden on the environment and 
poses a significant health risk.  
 
Ambient air pollution constitutes a significant risk to the health of urban populations. 
Population exposure to particulate matter is high and may lead to increased incidence of 
acute respiratory infections, particularly amongst children. It may also contribute to the 
aggravation of chronic cardio-respiratory diseases and increased mortality.  
 
Chemical contamination in food is not common as a result of the reduction of the use of 
agrochemicals in food since independence. In 1998 pesticides were found in 2.6% of 
food samples taken in the Osh area and the figure was as high as 6.9% for vegetable oil. 
The most frequent pesticide contamination is the chloro-organic and phosphoro-organic 
compounds. 
Bacterial contamination was found in 11.5% of tested food products in 1998, however in 
some locations the level reached 46%. 
 
Over 30,000 people in KR are employed in work places with polluted air and excessive 
noise.  
 
4.4  Important Environmental Issues 
 
The country’s primary environmental issues, as they relate to agriculture and land 
resources in general, are natural forest and pasture land degradation, and soil degradation, 
all of which contribute to desertification. Soil cover losses can result in a modified 
hydrological regime. Erosion results in reduced water quality and sedimentation in water 
reservoirs and irrigation schemes. Due to altered hydrological regimes, the threat of 
flooding and mudflows is increased. Land degradation has resulted in the loss of soil 
cover on mountain slopes.  Losses reach 30-50 tons per ha per year. 
 
The other major environmental concern is soil and water pollution. These occur in 
cultivated areas and in the vicinity of mining operations. Soil and water pollution can 
lead to health problems. Both of the processes, degradation and pollution, lead to a loss of 
biodiversity and destabilization of the general environment, which in turn can threaten 
the future of the country. Environmental health concerns are related to unsafe drinking 
water and air pollution. 
 
5. ASSESSMENT 
 
5.1 General 
 
The ABMP has two components and several sub-components. The investment facility 
sub-component will provide access to investment capital for the emerging producer 
Page  37
Kyrgyz Republic ABM Project                       Environmental Impact Assessment                          
A
pril 2004
25
organizations and private businesses in the areas of production, processing and marketing 
of agricultural commodities. The main activities in the supply chain will be beyond the 
farmgate (although agricultural production has not been excluded from this EIA) and up 
to, and including, product marketing. Most financing will be directed to the agro-
processing industries and their related activities, and marketing facilities. The revolving 
working capital fund sub-component will support producer organizations, agro-
processing companies and marketing companies.     
 
The ABMP itself is environmentally benign. The overall effect of the sub-projects will be 
positive. The loans will result in improved agricultural production, improved marketing, 
and in general, improved socioeconomic conditions of the rural population. The Project 
will further contribute to the country’s food security, hopefully contribute to the 
generation of foreign exchange through increased agricultural exports, and most of all, 
the Project, through the sub-projects, will significantly contribute to the alleviation of 
rural poverty. However, the Project’s primary objective does not include a contribution to 
the enhancement of the environment. In the past ten years rates of chemical inputs in 
agriculture have been significantly reduced, resulting in cleaner watercourses, lower 
levels of soil contamination and relatively chemical free food. The Project could lead to 
an increase in the use of farm inputs but mitigation measures and training associated with 
the Project could minimize any potential environmental impacts. To some extent, it is 
presumed that some of the industries under the former socialist regime which created 
significant environmental problems may be refurbished to operate more efficiently and 
without the major environmental contamination of the past. In theory, current 
environmental regulations should prevent a return to serious environmental issues. 
 
5.2 World Bank Safeguard Policies 
 
Funding will be used to support a variety of activities (refer to tables 3.1 and 3.2). A 
number of these activities could have an effect on those areas of concern that are 
addressed in the Bank’s safeguard policies. Table 5.1 provides a brief description of each 
of the relevant policies (four of the ten policies) and the risk of application on each of 
these policies as a result of the ABMP.  
 
5.3 Potential Category A and Category B Sub-projects 
 
The World Bank requires environmental impact assessments to be conducted for any 
projects that fall into either Category A or Category B. Table 5.2 lists the types of 
projects that fall within these two categories. 
 
There are a large number of currently operated agro-processing activities in KR and these 
would fall within the two categories listed above. If a loan application from an existing or 
newly planned rural enterprise falls into one of these categories, it will be incumbent 
upon the proponent to conduct an EIA. The EIA would be conducted on the entire 
enterprise regardless of the size of the loan or the specific nature of the loan, and the 
lending institution would have to be satisfied that the enterprise does not and would not 
Page  38
Kyrgyz Republic ABM Project                       Environmental Impact Assessment                          
A
pril 2004
26
present a threat to the environment. Although the environmental regulations of KR 
require environmental impact assessments to be conducted, for those projects that would 
fall within one of the above categories, any such study would have to meet World Bank 
requirements and standards as well. 
 
Table 5.1: Relevant World Bank Safeguard Policies and 
Risk of Application 
 
Safeguard 
Policy 
Description 
Risk 
Environmental 
Assessment 
EA to be conducted for all projects that 
fall into either Category A or Category B 
High:
 On-lending could support various 
activities (e.g. irrigation, agro-processing) 
that would require Bank quality EAs. 
Natural 
Habitats 
The conservation of natural habitats is 
essential for long-term sustainable 
development. The Bank supports, and 
expects borrowers to apply, a 
precautionary approach to natural 
resource management to ensure 
opportunities for environmentally 
sustainable development. The Bank 
does not support projects that involve 
the significant conversion or degradation 
of critical natural habitats. 
Moderate:
 Loan applications for agro-
processing and agricultural production could 
lead to habitat conversion or loss. These 
could include various agricultural activities 
such as land preparation (into new areas), 
irrigation and livestock expansion. As well, 
agro-processing could have effects on both 
terrestrial and aquatic habitats. 
Pest 
Management 
In Bank-financed agricultural operations, 
pest populations are normally controlled 
through IPM approaches, such as 
biological control, cultural practices, and 
the development and use of crop 
varieties resistant or tolerant to the pest. 
The Bank may finance the purchase of 
pesticides when their use is justified 
under an IPM approach. 
Moderate to High:
 On-lending could be 
used in many cases for supporting annual 
operating costs of agricultural enterprises. 
Some of these costs may include pest 
management through the purchase and 
application of pesticides without any specific 
farm IPM framework. To support these loan 
applications each potential borrower should 
provide an outline of an IPM program that is 
consistent with MAWRPI guidelines as well 
as the MEES and with the World Bank rule 
that pesticides are only used as a last resort 
and in combination with non-chemical 
control. 
Cultural 
Properties 
The Bank supports the preservation of 
cultural properties, which includes sites 
with archaeological, palaeontological, 
historical, religious and unique natural 
values. It seeks to avoid impacts on 
such sites. 
Low to Moderate
:
If new agro-processing 
enterprises are supported they could be 
developed on sites containing important 
cultural features. 
Page  39
Kyrgyz Republic ABM Project                       Environmental Impact Assessment                          
A
pril 2004
27
 
Table 5.2: World Bank Categories for Environmental Assessment Purposes 
 
Category A Projects
 
(
projects/components which 
may have diverse and 
significant impacts 
–
normally 
require EA) 
Category B Projects
 
(projects/components which 
may have diverse and 
significant impacts – more 
limited environmental analysis 
appropriate) 
.
dams and reservoirs 
.
forestry production projects 
.
industrial plants (large scale) 
and industrial estates, 
including major expansion, 
rehabilitation, or modification* 
.
irrigation, drainage and flood 
control (large scale)* 
.
aquaculture 
.
land clearance and leveling 
.
reclamation and new land 
development 
.
resettlement 
.
river basin development 
.
manufacture, transportation 
and use of pesticides or other 
hazardous and/or toxic 
materials* 
.
new constr. or major upgrad. 
of highways or rural roads 
.
agroindustries (small scale)* 
.
electrical transmission 
.
irrigation and drainage (small 
scale)* 
.
renewable energy 
.
rural electrification 
.
tourism 
.
rural water supply and 
sanitation 
.
watershed projects 
(management or rehabilitation) 
.
protected areas and 
biodiversity conservation 
.
rehabilitation of highways or 
rural roads 
.
rehabilitation or modification 
of existing industrial facilities 
(small scale) 
.
energy efficiency and energy 
conservation 
*
indicates activities likely to be considered for loans under ABMP 
 
For farms, of the 20 probable inputs to farming, only two (relating to pesticides and 
irrigation) would likely fall into either of the two above categories. Although there is a 
concern for environmental damage on the farm (e.g. health effects with the use of 
pesticides) the major concern would be the cumulative effect. This is of particularly 
concern where a number of farms in the same watershed could be borrowing for the same 
purpose (e.g. pesticides and / or irrigation).  
 
Page  40
Kyrgyz Republic ABM Project                       Environmental Impact Assessment                          
A
pril 2004
28
5.4 Important Environmental Components 
 
A
number of broad environmental issues have been identified through an NGO 
roundtable discussion, discussions with officials and field visits. This resulted in the 
compilation of a set of important environmental components (IECs), relative to the rural 
environment, agriculture and agribusinesses. IECs are those components of the 
environment which society generally feels are worthy of protection in light of the general 
activities likely to occur. Table 5.3 lists the IECs identified.  
 
Table 5.3: Important Environmental Components 
 
Physical Components 
Biological Components 
Socioeconomic 
Components 
·
Soil quality 
·
Soil fertility 
·
Soil erodibility 
·
Soil organic content 
·
Hydrological regime 
·
Groundwater quality 
·
Surface water quality 
·
Land 
·
Air quality 
·
Forests 
·
Flora 
·
Fauna 
·
Forest habitat 
·
Aquatic ecosystems 
·
Germplasm 
·
Culture 
·
Employment 
·
Income 
·
Poverty 
·
Health  
·
Migration 
·
Waste disposal 
·
Domestic water 
·
Markets and marketing 
5.5  Project Benefits 
 
The Project and its sub-projects provide a number of benefits. Overall, the Project will 
increase sales of KR agricultural and food commodities both in domestic and external 
markets. This in turn will improve the income of farmers, improve rural socioeconomic 
conditions, and provide jobs and higher profits in the agro-processing and marketing 
sectors. Specifically, each of the input groups for the small farms will provide a number 
of benefits as indicated in Table 5.4. Generally, the agro-processing industry will become 
m
ore efficient and competitive, providing secure jobs, and contributing to the country’s 
general economy including the improvement of foreign exchange reserves through export 
earnings. 
 
Table 5.4: Benefits 
–
Farm Inputs 
 
Input 
Benefits 
Seed 
Production; increased farm income; improvement of rural 
economy; contribution towards national food security 
Pedigree seed 
Increased production; increased farm income; rural economy 
improved; contribution towards national food security 
Fertilizer 
Increased production; increased farm income; rural economy 
improved; contribution towards national food security 
Pesticides  
Increased production; increased farm income; rural economy 
Page  41
Kyrgyz Republic ABM Project                       Environmental Impact Assessment                          
A
pril 2004
29
improved; contribution towards national food security 
Pedigree animals 
Fewer animals required for same production; or, improved 
production and higher quality product for marketplace; improved 
farm income; rural economy improved; stock available for export 
and increasing foreign exchange 
Animals for 
finishing 
Improved farm income; rural economy improved; contribution 
towards national food security 
Land purchase 
(farm expansion) 
Improved land use efficiency; improved farm profits based on 
economy of scale principle 
Land preparation 
(tractor and 
machinery hire) 
Increased production; increased farm income; rural economy 
improved; contribution towards national food security 
Tractors 
Reduces labor burden on farm family; improves farm efficiency; 
improves profits and rural economy 
Other farm 
implements 
Reduces labor burden on farm family; improves farm efficiency; 
improves profits and rural economy 
Small equipment 
Reduces labor burden on farm family 
Grain drying 
equipment 
Reduce grain spoilage and improve farm profits 
Irrigation 
equipment and 
maintenance 
Improved farm production leading to improved profits and general 
improvement in rural economy; contribution towards national food 
security 
Vehicles 
Improved farm efficiency leading to improved farm profits; 
reduces the labor load on the farm family 
Farm buildings for 
stock, machinery 
and chemicals 
Improved management of livestock; protection of machinery, thus 
improving farm net profits; prevention of chemical spills and loss 
of agricultural chemicals 
Storage facilities 
(fuel, grain and 
other produce)  
Ease handling of fuels and petrochemicals, avoidance of fuel 
spills and reduce wastage; reduce spoilage of crops and grains 
leading to improved economic efficiency and higher farm incomes
Fencing materials 
Reduce boundary disputes; containment of livestock; improved 
management of livestock 
Primary 
processing 
equipment 
Value added stays in rural areas leading to improved local 
economy through provision of jobs; improved farm income; 
reduction in transportation costs and fossil fuel consumption 
Fuel, lubricants 
Ability to run machinery for improved crop production and farm 
incomes 
Veterinary 
services 
Healthy livestock, improved production and farm incomes 
All but two (farm buildings and storage facilities) of the benefits are socioeconomic. 
Generally, as economies improve through expansion and growth in all economic sectors, 
the biophysical environment suffers. The only biophysical benefit (or environmental 
enhancement) is the storage of agricultural chemicals (including fuel) and yet it is the 
biophysical resource base that supports much of the rural economic activity. Regardless 
of the number of socioeconomic benefits that may result, they will not offset the 
biophysical impacts that can be expected. As agro-processing activities add more 
emissions and effluents (despite ‘point of pollution’ standards being met) to the air and 
waterways, the biophysical environment is affected. As farmers become wealthier 
through effective marketing and various farm improvements, an increase in the 
application of agro-chemicals leading to soil and water contamination can be expected. 
This ultimately can result in damaged ecosystems and human health problems. As local 
Page  42
Kyrgyz Republic ABM Project                       Environmental Impact Assessment                          
A
pril 2004
30
socioeconomic conditions improve, including an improved education of the public, it is 
hoped that the biophysical environment will benefit. 
 
As the rural economy grows the onus will be on the Government of KR to ensure that 
relevant environmental regulations are in place, maintained and enforced. Economic 
development must be sustainable, and the very resources (soil, water, and natural 
vegetation) that provide the basis for this development must be protected and managed. 
 
5.6  Potential Impacts  
 
5.6.1 General 
 
Impacts (potential and residual) in this assessment are rated on a scale ranging from 
LOW TO HIGH. A HIGH impact is only relative to other impacts within this analysis. A 
HIGH impact in the tanning industry can not be equated to a HIGH impact for a mine or 
a
large hydroelectric dam. Figure 5.1 provides a schematic showing the relative potential 
impacts of various activities within this Project and with a few other types of activities 
that are outside of the Project.  
 
Impact matrices that include the potential impacts, causes, consequences and mitigative 
responses are provided for ten agro-processing and related activities and twenty 
agricultural activities in annexes B and C, respectively. In Annex B for agro-processing 
and related activities, there are common potential impacts for each during location (of 
new facilities), construction and refurbishment, and decommissioning of new and 
existing facilities. These common potential impacts are indicated in Table B1 of Annex 
B. 
Page  43
Kyrgyz Republic ABM Project                       Environmental Impact Assessment                          
A
pril 2004
31
Figure 5.1 Schematic Indicating the Relative Residual Impacts of Different 
Activities 
 
IMPACT LEVEL OF SIGNIFICANCE 
 
LOW 
 
   MEDIUM 
    
HIGH 
 
 
Warehouse 
Oil processing 
Cotton gin 
Dairy 
Market 
Mining 
Fruit processing 
Flour mill 
Hydro electric 
dam 
Abattoir 
Tannery 
Frozen food 
Large scale 
irrigation 
Page  44
Kyrgyz Republic ABM Project                       Environmental Impact Assessment                          
A
pril 2004
32
5.6.2 Agro-processing 
 
It is envisaged that the bulk of the credit line and revolving working capital funds will be 
used in the agro-processing sector with perhaps some of the funds made available for 
warehousing and market infrastructure. 
 
The agro-processing industries generally produce wastes (some more than others) that are 
disposed of in the form of effluent discharges, air emissions or solid wastes. Effluents 
flow into surface watercourses and seep into groundwater; emission gases are released 
into the atmosphere; and solid wastes are disposed of in municipal and unorganized 
dumps. These wastes could include a wide range of gaseous, solid and liquid compounds 
ranging from water vapour to highly toxic materials and they pose a threat to 
groundwater supplies, air quality, aquatic ecosystems, and ultimately to human health. 
 
When considering expansion of existing processing plants or the establishment of new 
ones, there could be losses of biodiversity and impacts on biophysical resources including 
forest cover losses and soil erosion. All of these issues come under different KR 
regulations and it will be important that these regulations be observed if impacts are to be 
minimized or avoided. Table 5.5 summarizes the potential impacts from these agro-
processing activities. 
 
Table 5.5: Potential Impacts of Agro-processing Activities 
 
Processing Type 
Impacts during operation 
Abattoir* 
Carcass waste; meal for feed (BCE); odours; 
manure; water consumption for cleaning; 
disinfectants; worker safety;  
Meat packing* 
Soldering cans (lead); metal waste; emissions; 
contamination; worker safety; noise; water 
consumption and disinfectants 
Vegetable processing and canning* 
Effluent into surface water systems; soldering cans; 
metal waste; emissions; noise; worker safety; 
contamination; water for washing and disinfectants 
Tanning* 
Effluent (chemicals from tanning ) into surface 
water systems; waste; odour; health and safety 
Dairy processing* 
Effluents (acid); emissions, Freon  
Frozen food production* 
Freon, importing of raw material (pest introduction); 
worker safety 
Cotton ginning 
Noise; dust inside and outside; energy 
consumption for creating hot air and steam for 
adding humidity to the cotton; safety and health 
Oil processing (including maize) 
Heat; water 
Flour milling* 
Dust; noise; safety and health 
*
indicates type of facilities visited 
 
Page  45
Kyrgyz Republic ABM Project                       Environmental Impact Assessment                          
A
pril 2004
33
5.6.3  Livestock Production
 
The experience with the Rural Finance II Project is that 75% of the loans were made 
available to farmers wishing to purchase livestock. In some cases these loans were 
substantial and as many as 50 animals per farm have been purchased for both finishing 
and breeding purposes. 
 
The reduction in livestock numbers that has occurred since the KR became independent 
has resulted in some recovery of natural pastures (although it has been detrimental to 
alpine pastures where the country’s greatest biodiversity is found)
10
 from the effects of 
previous overgrazing. Although livestock numbers could easily be increased without 
further degradation to grazing lands, it will be important to consider carrying capacity of 
natural and improved pastures and incorporate appropriate stock movement and rotation 
schedules to avoid overgrazing. The extension service of the MAWPRI can provide 
appropriate guidance on stocking rates, pasture rotation and pasture management 
methods to achieve modest increases in production while avoiding land degradation and 
accomplishing rehabilitation of previously degraded lands. Any livestock production sub-
projects should include pasture improvement and rehabilitation work as an integral 
component of project implementation. Reliable monitoring of grazing lands to ensure 
timely interventions to avoid soil erosion and avoid overstocking should be incorporated 
into sub-project design.  
 
Intensive grazing within the limited forested areas of the country presents risks to the 
ecological integrity of forest ecosystems and to their ability to regenerate and maintain 
their biodiversity. Livestock rearing in closed conditions, both on the small farm holding 
and the large commercial farm, results in a concentration of animal waste that can 
contaminate both groundwater and surface waters. 
 
5.6.4 Agricultural Production 
 
The major potential impacts associated with the 18 non-livestock potential agricultural 
inputs relate to water and soil quality, soil erosion, salinization and resource loss. 
 
Increasing pesticide applications can lead to pesticide residue (including heavy metals) 
build up in the soil.  Pesticides and fertilizers can migrate to both surface waters and 
groundwater resulting in contamination of these two sources and leading to damaged 
aquatic ecosystems and threatened health to downstream users. Pedigree seed and HYVs 
will demand further applications of chemical inputs, thus exacerbating the problem. In 
the case of the former, public health is at risk, in the case of the latter, aquatic ecosystems 
and, possibly public health, are both at risk.  
 
Irrigation rehabilitation and new irrigation schemes can lead to salinization and 
waterlogging – desertification - if drainage is not managed effectively. Tractors and land 
preparation can promote erosion, particularly if tractors are too heavy and cause soil 
compaction, and if fields are ploughed (with or without the contour) and left a longtime 
10
 Emil Shukurov, Biodiversity Project. Personal communication. 
Page  46
Kyrgyz Republic ABM Project                       Environmental Impact Assessment                          
A
pril 2004
34
before the sowing period. Land purchases, where the land is already under agricultural 
use, do not lead to increased environmental problems. However, where land is under 
another cover any use such as wetland, or forest cover on steep slopes, there is the 
potential loss of biodiversity, habitat and species. As well, erosion risks may be 
increased, particularly on steep sites. 
 
The principal environmental risks associated with intensification of agriculture concern 
the safe handling and application of pesticides and the appropriate application of 
fertilizers to avoid excessive runoff and contamination of soils and of surface and ground 
waters. The Plant Protection Service (MAWPRI) guidelines should be followed regarding 
the selection, use, storage and application of pesticides. Appropriate training of 
agricultural workers and monitoring of pesticide residues and runoff should be 
incorporated in sub-project design and independently monitored during project 
implementation.  With sub-projects involving fertilizer or pesticide applications, 
monitoring of groundwater and downstream water quality (as appropriate) should be 
included in project implementation. Potential impacts, causes, consequences and 
mitigation are described in Annex C. A summary of the potential major environmental 
impacts of farm inputs it provided in Table 5.6.
 
Table 5.6: Summary of Potential Major Environmental Impacts -  
Farm Inputs 
 
Farm Input 
Potential Impacts 
Level of 
Significance 
Seed 
Water and soil contamination 
through chemical inputs  
Low-moderate 
Pedigree seed purchase 
Biodiversity loss; chemical inputs 
Moderate-high 
Fertilizer
 
Water pollution 
Moderate-high 
Pesticides 
 
Ill health; water pollution 
High 
Pedigree animals 
 
None None 
Animals for finishing
 
Overgrazing; forest degradation 
High 
Land purchase 
Loss of biodiversity; soil erosion 
High 
Land preparation
 
Soil erosion 
Moderate-high 
Tractors 
Soil compaction and erosion 
Moderate-high 
Other farm implements 
None 
None 
Small equipment 
None 
None 
Grain drying equipment 
High energy use 
Low 
Irrigation equipment and 
irrigation maintenance 
Water extraction and salinization 
High 
Vehicles CO
2
emissions Low-moderate 
Farm buildings for stock, 
machinery and chemicals 
Reduction in productive land 
Low 
Storage facilities (fuel, 
grain and other produce) 
Reduction in productive land 
Low 
Fencing materials 
Social barriers 
Low 
Primary processing 
equipment 
Water pollution 
Moderate 
Fuel, lubricants, etc. 
Water and soil pollution 
Low-moderate 
Veterinary services 
Hormones and chemicals in meat 
and animal products 
Moderate 
Page  47
Kyrgyz Republic ABM Project                       Environmental Impact Assessment                          
A
pril 2004
35
5.7 Potential Cumulative Impacts 
 
Assuming that all mitigation is carried out on all projects for which loans are provided, 
there will still be residual effects, that when considered in total, could have an overall 
significant effect on the environment. The major environmental concerns, as described in 
Section 5.6 are water pollution and land degradation.  
 
Cumulative effect can be associated with both agro-processing and agricultural input 
activities. In the former, it is more obvious due to the nature of industrial activity where 
many of the agro-processing activities clearly result in impacts, particularly with effluent 
discharges and air emissions. However, the effect is subtler in the latter. For instance, it is 
anticipated that small farmers will request modest loans for the purchase of basic farm 
inputs of seed, fertilizers, pesticides and fuel, and for livestock. Such a loan to a single 
farmer would present little environmental concern and a large number of such small loans 
spread throughout the country would have a relatively negligible effect. However, if by 
chance a large number of requests for loans originated from the same area, and 
particularly within the same watershed, the cumulative effect of all of the small 
(negligible) effects could be significant.  
 
Cumulative effect is important in temporal terms as well. For instance, a small loan for 
pesticide purchase in itself has little negative impact, and in fact, has much the opposite 
with an increased production and return to the farmer. However, the same loan for the 
same purpose provided for a number of years could result in a detrimental build-up of 
pesticide in the soil. Over time the cumulative effect could be very significant. 
 
Farmers should not be denied loans on the basis of their location, but if patterns appear to 
show concentrations of loans (e.g. fertilizers or pesticides) in one watershed, the 
responsible loan officers should alert the local MEES office for special monitoring of the 
situation. 
 
Another example is the application of loans for agro-industry rehabilitation or for the 
start-up of new industries. With industries, the environmental concerns usually focus on 
air emissions and effluent discharge. Although each activity may create emissions well 
within the established national standards, cumulatively, all of the industries in one region 
(e.g. in a small closed valley with poor air circulation) could significantly contribute to 
the deterioration of overall air quality, resulting in an impact on human health. Similarly, 
the impact on water quality of a common river used by several processing plants could be 
significant. 
 
In a comprehensive examination of cumulative effects, analysis would be made of all of 
the other various activities occurring that have an impact on the environment. For 
instance, other industrial development (donor assisted or otherwise), an increase in motor 
traffic, and the burning of fossil fuels for energy, could all, cumulatively, result in serious 
air quality problems. Although the ABMP can not be concerned about the effects of other 
projects, it is important to place the project and the effects that it does have on the 
environment within the context of overall development.  
Page  48
Kyrgyz Republic ABM Project                       Environmental Impact Assessment                          
A
pril 2004
36
 
In order to prevent the risk of adverse cumulative environmental effects, a brief analysis 
will be made of the portfolio every year and reported to the MEES. 
 
KR has a number of rivers that originate in the country and flow into adjacent countries. 
Effluents meeting national standards and discharged into a river in KR would be 
cumulative to those discharged in the same river in an adjacent country. This could result 
in a significant cumulative effect in the adjacent country. 
 
5.8 Mitigation 
 
Specific design criteria will be met prior to loan approval. Operational criteria will be met 
and operations monitored to ensure that impacts do not occur beyond acceptable levels 
(e.g. within national standards for effluent discharges and air emissions). 
 
For agricultural activities mitigation should not necessarily entail expensive inputs and 
much can be achieved towards the minimizing of residual impacts through applying 
efficient and safe farming techniques. MAWRPI is in a position to advise farmers on the 
proper handling and application of pesticides and fertilizers, including application rates 
and timely application. As well, they can advise on effective cultivation techniques that 
will reduce the threat of soil erosion. Irrigation schemes can be well planned in order to 
avoid the loss of productive land through salinization and waterlogging. 
 
Water and air will be monitored by MEES against national water and air quality 
standards. However, monitoring is not conducted on a regular basis by local 
environmental agencies to ensure that these environmental components are protected. 
 
5.9 Potential Residual Impacts 
 
Residual impacts are those impacts that remain following mitigation (e.g. effluent 
discharges from a processing industry, but which meet national standards). These are the 
trade-offs for the benefits to be gained through the Project. Assuming that mitigation is 
carried out, residual effects could still be significant, particularly when considering the 
cumulative effect. A summary of residual effects is provided in Tables 5.7 and 5.8. For 
ABMP, assuming that all mitigation is adhered to, the residual effects will be minimal. 
Although ratings are subjective, and only relative to one another, this analysis indicates 
that only one activity (pesticide application) in the agriculture sector receives residual 
effects ratings above LOW-MOD and the same residual effect rating is given for those 
agro-processing industries (three of them) using refrigeration. Although integrated pest 
management (IPM) is recommended as a mitigative measure for the impacts that 
pesticides will produce, it is unlikely that this measure would have widespread 
application.  
 
Page  49
Kyrgyz Republic ABM Project                       Environmental Impact Assessment                          
A
pril 2004
37
 
Table 5.7: Summary of Probable Residual Effects 
–
Agro-
processing and Other 
 
Agro-processing Type 
Probable Residual Effects 
Significance 
Abattoir 
Effluent discharge; solid wastes; 
air emissions (refrigerants) 
Low 
–
Medium 
Meat packing 
None 
None 
Vegetable processing and canning 
Effluent discharge; solid waste 
Low 
Tanning 
Effluent discharge; solid waste 
Low - Medium 
Dairy processing 
Effluent discharge; air emissions 
(refrigerants) 
Low -  Medium 
 
Frozen food production 
Effluent discharge; air emissions 
(refrigerants) 
Low – Medium 
Cotton ginnery 
Air emissions 
None-Low 
Oil processing (including maize) 
Effluent discharge; solid waste 
Low 
Flour mills 
Solid waste; dust 
None-Low 
Warehousing None 
None 
Marketing None None 
Table 5.8: Summary of Probable Residual Effects - 
Agriculture 
 
Sub-project Group 
Probable Residual Effects 
Significance 
Seed 
Water pollution from chemical 
inputs 
Low 
Pedigree seed purchase 
Water pollution from chemical 
inputs 
Low 
Fertilizer
 
Water pollution 
Low 
Pesticides 
 
Water and soil pollution 
Moderate 
Pedigree animals 
 
None None 
Animals for finishing
 
None None 
Land purchase 
Loss of forest cover; reduced 
biodiversity; soil erosion 
None 
Land preparation
 
Soil erosion and 
sedimentation 
Low 
Tractors 
Soil compaction and erosion; 
water and soil pollution 
Low 
Other farm implements 
Soil erosion 
Low 
Small equipment 
None 
None 
Grain drying equipment 
High energy consumption via 
fossil fuels - contribution to 
greenhouse gases 
Low 
Irrigation equipment and irrigation maintenance 
Groundwater losses; surface 
water extraction; salinization 
and waterlogging 
Low-mod 
Vehicles 
Fossil fuel consumption 
–
Low 
Page  50
Kyrgyz Republic ABM Project                       Environmental Impact Assessment                          
A
pril 2004
38
contribution to greenhouse 
gases 
Farm buildings for stock, machinery and 
chemicals 
Loss of productive land 
Low 
Storage facilities (fuel, grain and other 
produce) 
Loss of productive land 
Low 
Fencing materials 
Cultural and social systems 
Low 
Primary processing equipment 
Water pollution; occupational 
hazards 
None 
Fuel, lubricants, etc. 
None 
None 
Veterinary services 
Some chemical residuals in 
meat and animal products 
Low 
5.10 Environmental Risk 
 
Overall, the environmental risk is high because effective enforcement of the law is 
questionable. Risks for those activities that would lead to impacts which can be governed 
by specific pieces of legal instrumentation would vary depending upon the effectiveness 
of environmental inspections and the willingness of entrepreneurs (agro-processing) to 
invest in equipment and processes that will mitigate environmental problems. Risks for 
which there is no effective legal instrument would vary, depending upon the nature and 
level of impact, and the cost of mitigation. Generally, however, where mitigation is costly 
or technically challenging, environmental risk will be high. That is, the actual impacts 
will be much closer to the identified potential impacts than to the residual impacts 
determined if all mitigation were to be carried out. Of particular concern would be for 
those activities resulting in water and air pollution.  
 
6. ANALYSIS 
OF 
ALTERNATIVES 
 
6.1 Project Design
11
 
Early on in the Project preparation stage the Task Team considered building the Project 
around a more traditional set of public sector interventions. It was soon apparent that this 
approach would not have sufficient impact on the set of challenges being faced to be able 
to deliver the intended outcomes and results.  
 
The Task Team also reviewed a number of small and medium enterprise development 
and export promotion projects that were based on contracting out key management 
functions to international consulting firms, and which were successful in delivering 
anticipated Project results. This model could not be applied to KR without modification 
due to its relatively high costs and the priority expressed by Government for development 
of local consulting capacity. 
 
The Task Team had wanted to push for greater specificity with respect to the 
commodities to be handled by the Project and to the public sector constraints that were 
impacting on competitiveness of Kyrgyz suppliers. Deeper analysis showed, however, 
11
 World Bank. 2003. 
Page  51
Kyrgyz Republic ABM Project                       Environmental Impact Assessment                          
A
pril 2004
39
that these questions could be adequately answered only on the basis of fairly intensive 
interaction with private sector actors, and in any case should be kept flexible to allow for 
new information and changing economic circumstances. 
 
The alternatives above focused on methods of implementation and not on different 
concepts or target groups. In each of the cases considered, the main objectives of the 
Project remained the same and the target recipients of funding (i.e. primarily, 
agribusinesses) remained unchanged. This being the case, the alternative implementation 
designs would have resulted in the same set of funding recipients, and thus the 
environment impacts would have been similar to those identified with the current design. 
 
6.2 
 ‘No Project’ Alternative  
 
The ‘no Project’ alternative would certainly mean that the Bank would not have to be 
concerned about meeting any of its environmental requirements. However, without a 
Project there would be two main negative consequences on the environment. 
 
First, the social and economic benefits that can be derived from the Project would not be 
realized. Farmers would not prosper because there would be a weak and disrupted supply 
chain link for their farm produce. This would result in continued depressed conditions in 
the agriculture sector. However, on the positive side, it could be argued that such a 
depressed agriculture sector would also mean a continued lack of chemical inputs to the 
farm, resulting in few concerns over soil contamination and water pollution from 
pesticide and fertilizer run-off. 
 
A
Project that ultimately improves the socio-economic conditions in the agriculture 
sector (by improving the supply chain) will result in the desire to improve productivity. 
With an improved cash flow, the farmer would be in a position to reach increased 
production levels through the purchase and application of chemical inputs, thus 
increasing pressure on important environmental components. The Project’s 
environmental capacity building activities will lead to more understanding of the effects 
of agricultural chemical inputs on the environment and hopefully through a better 
understanding by all stakeholders, will result in lighter impacts. 
 
Without a Project, the agribusiness sector would continue to operate as usual, many with 
antiquated and inefficient equipment. Such physical plant not only results in inefficient 
productivity but also is environmentally unfriendly. Without new capitalization for 
modern equipment (much of which is environmentally friendly – e.g. refrigeration units 
that use non-ozone depleting refrigerants) industries will continue to have negative 
effects on the environment. World Bank requirements would ensure that any business 
supported through the Project would be required to meet national and Bank 
environmental standards. 
 
In general terms, the environmental impacts will be greater without the Project than with 
the Project.   
 
Page  52
Kyrgyz Republic ABM Project                       Environmental Impact Assessment                          
A
pril 2004
40
 
7. ENVIRONMENTAL 
MANAGEMENT 
PLAN 
 
7.1 General 
 
The environmental management plan will be the guiding document to ensure that impacts 
likely to be encountered by any of the activities that are supported by the lending 
program will be avoided, mitigated or minimized to an acceptable level. The plan 
describes the mitigative procedures to be considered and provides best practice guidelines 
to avoid impacts in the first place. The plan normally provides a monitoring schedule and 
a
process to follow for monitoring the effectiveness of environmental management. As 
well, the plan normally indicates responsibilities, scheduling and indicative costs for plan 
implementation. However, costs are not possible to provide in this plan since the sub-
projects to be financed are unknown at this stage. Table 7.1 can only provide monitoring 
responsibilities at this stage.  
 
Finally, the plan outlines an environmental capacity building program that will contribute 
to a better understanding of environmental issues amongst the various agencies and 
private sector actors and ultimately will result in an overall program that will result in 
minimal impact on the environment. 
 
The World Bank requires that any sub-project that would normally fall within Category 
A
or Category B would require an EIA. The onus of recognizing sub-loan applications 
for sub-projects that may fall into one of these categories rests with the ABMPIU
12
 and 
the  PFI loan officers of the various lending institutions. 
 
7.2 Category A and Category B Sub-projects 
 
The majority of sub-projects anticipated will involve the renovation or improvement of 
agro-processing industries. Some of the sub-projects may involve transportation, 
warehousing, marketing and agricultural production. It is likely that only the agro-
processing activities would fall within the World Bank's Categories A or B.  
 
Adequate and appropriate environmental review is normally assured by MEES (most 
likely through the oblast offices). However, to ensure that the World Bank’s 
environmental requirements are not overlooked it will be necessary for ABMPIU to 
establish an adequate and appropriate environmental review and monitoring procedure. 
ABMPIU will establish procedures for screening and scoping of sub-project proposals 
including, as appropriate, consultation with local state environmental inspectors (MEES) 
12
 ABMPPU would likely become ABMPIU (Agribusiness and Marketing Project Implementation Unit) 
once implementation starts. 
Page  53
Kyrgyz Republic ABM Project                       Environmental Impact Assessment                          
A
pril 2004
41
and the public. Based on preliminary review of the potential impacts and the scale of sub-
projects (screening and scoping) and in consultation with MEES experts at raion or oblast 
level, the ABMPIU would provide advice to sub-project proponents in determining the 
level of environmental analysis required. 
 
It must be remembered that ‘
‘....it is the extent of the impacts, not the sector, that 
determines the extent of the environmental assessment and, hence, the category.
13
’
and 
as such it will be important that the ABMPIU and PFI loan officers have sufficient 
knowledge to recognize the significance of any impacts that may occur for any particular 
sub-project being assessed for a loan. 
 
7.3 Management 
 
The ABMPIU will be responsible for Project implementation. This Unit should have a 
staff member or a consultant with an environmental background (through training) to 
ensure that projects being supported are not ones that would unduly affect the 
environment. The individual would be responsible for screening the sub-project (although 
the PFI would also provide screening recommendations) that would result in designating 
the sub-project a World Bank category (A, B or C). Guidelines for screening sub-projects 
are provided in Annex E. The individual should also be in close collaboration with 
relevant MEES staff and concerned NGOs. 
 
Mitigation of any environmental effects will be the responsibility of the sub-project 
proponent. However, it will also be the responsibility of the lending agency, the MEES, 
concerned public and the ABMPIU to ensure that mitigation is carried out successfully.  
 
The most appropriate good practices for agribusinesses relate to safety and health. Agro-
processing activities must maintain high hygiene standards and all businesses must 
ensure safety instruction to their employees as well as the provision of protective clothing 
where appropriate. Those businesses requiring cold storage facilities (e.g. abattoirs, dairy 
plants and some warehouses) must ensure that all new purchases of refrigeration 
equipment are ozone friendly. 
 
Table 7.1 provides some suggested good practices related to agricultural production. 
 
Table 7.1: Some Agricultural Good Practices 
–
Towards a Protected Environment 
and Sustainable Agriculture 
 
Activity 
Good Practices 
Seed 
 . selection of seed with lowest agro-chemical input 
requirements to achieve high yields 
.
selection of seed with minimal level of pest and disease 
vulnerability 
.
rigorous sanitation facilities and procedures for imported 
seed 
13
 World Bank. 1998. 
Page  54
Kyrgyz Republic ABM Project                       Environmental Impact Assessment                          
A
pril 2004
42
.
rigorous sanitation facilities and procedures for exported 
seed 
.
extension services provide advice on appropriate fertilizer 
and pesticide applications 
.
where possible, extension service to promote sustainable 
agricultural practices including IPM, minimum tillage, 
contour ploughing, crop rotations, and green manuring 
Fertilizers 
. selection of best fertilizers for crop and prevailing soil 
conditions 
.
application levels as per recommended by manufacturer 
and extension service 
Pesticides 
. IPM is a priority and pesticides to be applied sparingly and 
only where absolutely necessary 
.
careful handling of pesticides; protective clothing and 
equipment to be used 
Pedigree livestock 
N/A 
Livestock for finishing 
. manure handling facilities designed to ensure zero runoff 
Land rental/purchase 
. land to be rented or purchased not to be environmentally 
sensitive 
–
check with MENR before finalizing agreement 
Tractors 
. purchase of engine efficient tractors that provide highest 
ratio of power and work to fuel input 
.
tractors with high efficiency emissions control 
.
tractors no larger than necessary for the most extensive 
work anticipated 
Farm implements 
. implements suitable for minimal tillage and others which 
are applicable to organic farming methods 
Land preparation 
. contour ploughing, minimum tillage, grassed waterways, 
etc. 
Small equipment 
. energy efficient equipment  
Grain drying equipment 
. energy efficiency to be a prime concern 
Irrigation equipment 
. highest efficiency equipment 
.
equipment that assists in the use of irrigation water in an 
efficient manner 
Vehicles 
. low emission vehicles/vehicles with high efficiency engines 
Farm buildings for stock, 
machinery, and chemicals 
.
location of buildings where least disturbance of resources 
required 
.
energy efficient building design including heating, 
ventilation 
.
building design to minimize materials and use of 
environmentally friendly materials 
Storage facilities 
Same as above 
Fencing materials 
N/A 
Primary processing equipment 
. high efficiency equipment including low emission fuels 
(e.g. gas, solar) 
Fuel, lubricants, spare parts and 
other operating requirements 
.
safe storage of fuels, lubricants and chemicals 
Veterinary services 
. zero use of hormones and minimal use of drugs 
.
alternative medicine 
To ensure timely and effective mitigation, an effective monitoring system will be 
implemented and guidelines for developing a monitoring system are discussed in Section 
7.4.  
 
7.4 Monitoring 
Page  55
Kyrgyz Republic ABM Project                       Environmental Impact Assessment                          
A
pril 2004
43
 
The project’s PFI loan officers will be responsible for ensuring that sub-projects comply 
with Bank environmental requirements and Kyrgyz environmental legislation. However, 
loan officers are not environmental specialists. With some basic training (see Section 7.5 
and Table 7.4) they will be able to monitor the sub-projects but often they will have to 
rely on consultations with the ABMPIU environmental specialist (assuming that one of 
the Unit’s officers will receive appropriate training) and/or MEES staff for guidance and 
advice. If there are to be a large number of sub-projects monitoring will likely be 
conducted on a sample basis. From an environmental viewpoint, those groups of sub-
projects which have the potential for creating the most serious environmental problems 
should be given highest priority for sampling. For monitoring to be effective, results must 
be acted upon, and as such, monitoring results will be considered when loan applications 
are reviewed and conditions are placed on subsequent loans. 
 
Although the legal authority and responsibility of monitoring rests with the MEES and 
other civil authorities (e.g. MoH, MAWPRI) the capacity for monitoring and enforcement 
of these agencies is limited. The ABMPIU will need to ensure that an effective 
monitoring program is built into the sub-projects. For sub-projects with potential for 
significant impacts, a monitoring plan would be required as part of the documentation for 
sub-project approval. The results of monitoring would be taken into account in 
consideration of subsequent requests for financing.  
 
Loan officers of PFIs will be responsible for: 
 
.
monitoring all sub-projects (with assistance from MEES) that have required an 
EA to ensure that mitigation is carried out as planned and to ensure that no 
unanticipated effects have occurred 
.
randomly reviewing, with field visits, projects that have not required EAs, to 
ensure that they are environmentally acceptable (he/she will use a checklist to 
determine whether or not the borrower is complying with the environmental 
requirements) 
.
where necessary, prescribing corrective actions to be taken, without which the 
loan will be cancelled/not renewed 
.
taking into account the cumulative effect of a number of projects in a small area, 
particularly within a critical watershed 
 
Bank supervision missions should consider including an environmental specialist once a 
year to audit monitoring procedures and results and as well, provide an assessment of the 
effects, if any, that the Project may be having on cumulative impacts. 
 
Table 7.2 provides a summary of monitoring and reporting responsibilities for ABMP. 
 
7.5 Environmental Capacity Development
 
7.5.1 General 
 
Page  56
Kyrgyz Republic ABM Project                       Environmental Impact Assessment                          
A
pril 2004
44
To ensure that all elements of the ABMP management structure (ABMPIU, CC, PFIs and 
MEES) are fully aware of the environmental screening, assessment, management and 
monitoring activities that are incorporated in ABMP implementation, the project will 
need to invest in appropriate training for each of these links in the management chain. 
 
Table 7.2: Summary of Monitoring Responsibilities 
 
Monitoring Requirements 
Responsibility 
Frequency 
Ensure borrowing enterprises 
are in compliance with EE 
passport requirements 
(dealing with discharges, 
emissions and solid wastes). 
Make recommendations where 
appropriate.  
MEES (head office or oblast 
staff) 
Monthly 
–
unannounced visits. 
Scientific measurements 
required. 
Review of EE passport 
monitoring results. Ensure 
follow up on 
recommendations. 
ABMPIU 
Bi-annually, to ensure that 
monitoring is regular and that 
borrower is meeting 
environmental requirements 
Examine environmental 
aspects (other than 
discharges, emissions and 
solid wastes) as indicated in 
enterprise’s environmental 
management plan, for 
compliance. Make appropriate 
recommendations. 
PFIs with ABMPIU 
Bi-annually – unannounced 
visits (no measurements 
required) 
Examine environmental effects 
of enterprises that did not 
require EIAs and make 
recommendations. 
PFIs Bi-annually 
Review of PFI monitoring 
reports (see above) and 
ensure follow up of 
recommendations. 
ABMPIU Bi-annually 
Review efficiency and 
effectiveness of overall 
monitoring – process and 
results. 
World Bank  
Annually 
Investigate selected 
enterprises for compliance and 
make any necessary 
recommendations. 
World Bank  
Annually  
Review selected EIAs of 
borrowing enterprises for 
completeness re: WB 
requirements. Visit selection of 
enterprises to test accuracy of 
EIA. 
World Bank  
Annually 
Examine the cumulative effect 
of selected enterprises.  
ABMPIU  
Annually 
Page  57
Kyrgyz Republic ABM Project                       Environmental Impact Assessment                          
A
pril 2004
45
6.5.2 ABMPIU and Consultative Council
 
The ABMPIU staff needs to be generally aware of the procedures established for 
environmental screening, scoping, assessment, review, management, mitigation and 
monitoring. They also need to be aware of types of projects that are ineligible for 
financing under World Bank guidelines and the general procedures and costs that may be 
associated with carrying out environmental assessment of potential Category A or B  sub-
projects. 
 
To ensure compliance of ABMP financed sub-projects with existing environmental 
regulations and those that may be promulgated in the future, the ABMPIU should have an 
environmental specialist on staff or arrange a contract with a qualified non-governmental 
organization to:  provide guidance on initial project screening and review; develop terms 
of reference for sub-project review or assessment; review environmental management 
and monitoring plans submitted as part of the sub-project appraisal process, and;  
periodically determine that monitoring is being carried out to appropriate standards. 
 
Activities to be carried out by the environmental specialist or contractor would include: 
 
·
review of applications for sub-project financing (whether or not these require permits 
from MEES) to identify potential environmental impacts and carry out field 
inspections as needed; 
·
review of sub-projects requiring an environmental assessment under MEES or World 
Bank guidelines; 
·
develop terms of reference for environmental assessments for sub-projects for which 
these are required; 
·
review environmental assessments, environmental management and monitoring plans 
for sub-projects requiring them; 
·
provide guidance to sub-project proponents on environmental mitigation that can be 
incorporated into project implementation; 
·
monitor all sub-projects requiring an environmental assessment to ensure that 
mitigation is being carried out as planned and no unidentified effects have occurred; 
·
selectively undertake field visits to sub-projects for which environmental clearance 
permits were required to monitor compliance; 
·
randomly carry out field visits to sub-projects that do not require environmental 
clearance permits to ensure that acceptable environmental standards are being met. 
 
The environmental specialist or contractor will ensure that applicable national standards 
and guidelines are being achieved or followed. Where multiple sub-projects are being 
carried out in geographical proximity, assess the possible cumulative effects on the 
environment (in particular natural habitats, forests, soil, air and water quality). 
 
The environmental specialist or contractor will provide guidance and backstopping to PFI 
loan officers on the application of project environmental screening procedures to sub-
project proposals. 
 
Page  58
Kyrgyz Republic ABM Project                       Environmental Impact Assessment                          
A
pril 2004
46
In addition to having an environmental specialist on staff, or the use of an environmental 
consultant, the staff should be generally environmentally aware and have a general 
knowledge of the potential impacts of various types of sub-projects, the types of sub-
projects that are ineligible for financing, and the requirements of MEES for 
environmental clearance.  
 
At the minimum, ABMPIU staff should attend a two-day environmental awareness and 
analysis workshop that will demonstrate how sub-projects financed by project sub-loans 
can affect the environment and the steps to be taken to avoid impacts. 
 
The Consultative Council (CC) will have little or no training in environmental matters. In 
its position of providing guidance it should have a general awareness of some of the 
environmental problems that can be encountered. The CC should attend a half-day 
general environmental awareness workshop. 
 
7.5.3  PFI Loan Officers 
 
Participating private retail banks are not in the environment business. Their main function 
will be to approve and administer loans. These organizations do not have the knowledge, 
or the official responsibility for environmental protection. The PFI loan officers will need 
to be familiar with the sub-project screening methods and criteria, and project 
requirements for including appropriate mitigation and monitoring in the costs to be 
financed. They will also need an understanding of the content of environmental 
management and monitoring plans and the general nature of mitigation requirements for 
"typical" sub-project investments. They need to be generally aware of MEES 
requirements for environmental clearance and the permitting process for waste discharge. 
They need to be aware of the MAWRPI and MoH roles in monitoring and enforcement of 
water quality standards. 
 
PFI loan officers need to be familiar with the environmental screening procedures for 
initial sub-project review that will determine the level of environmental assessment a 
given sub-project may require. They should also be generally aware of the kinds of 
environmental problems that may be associated with different types of projects and the 
kinds of mitigation options that may be required to address them. They need to be 
familiar with the structure and general content of environmental management plans 
(including monitoring activities) that may be required for some types of sub-projects. 
They need to be aware of MEES procedures for environmental review and clearance of 
those projects requiring environmental review as well as any reporting or monitoring 
responsibilities of the project proponent to assure compliance with national permit 
requirements for waste discharge or conformance with other environmental standards. 
 
Key personnel from the organizations should attend a half-day environmental awareness 
workshop and all loan officers should attend an environmental awareness and analysis 
workshop.
 
Page  59
Kyrgyz Republic ABM Project                       Environmental Impact Assessment                          
A
pril 2004
47
A
user friendly environmental review manual would be helpful in providing loan officers 
(as well as ABMPIU staff) in determining the World Bank category of projects and the 
impacts that can be expected for various types of sub-projects. 
 
7.5.4 Agribusiness Entrepreneurs 
 
Agribusiness entrepreneurs are businessmen first and foremost. They generally meet 
government environmental requirements but in all likelihood are not always aware of the 
consequences of not meeting these requirements. With a better understanding of the 
environment and how their particular activities can cause impact on the environment, 
they may become more pro-active in their business planning and actions. It is 
recommended that they attend an environmental awareness workshop. 
 
Table 7.3 summarizes the environmental capacity building requirements for the ABMP. 
 
Table 7.3: Summary of Environmental Capacity Building Requirements 
 
Target Audience 
Type of Capacity 
Building 
Description 
Inputs Required 
1. ABMPIU director, CC 
members, senior PFI staff 
Environmental awareness 
workshop 
Half day seminar 
discussing the importance 
of the environment and the 
consequences for not 
addressing issues. 
1.5 days of international 
consultant time and 1.0 
days of local consultant 
time. 
2. Participating agro-
processing borrowers 
Environmental analysis 
workshop 
One-day workshop on 
environmental awareness 
but with additional depth 
related to their specific 
operations. Beyond 
environmental awareness 
with emphasis on impacts 
and their consequences, 
and mitigation; outline of 
relevant legal 
requirements. 
Four days of international 
consultant time (extra time 
required to further 
research environmental 
effects of specific 
operations (e.g. tanning, 
abattoirs); Four days of 
local environmental legal 
consultant. 
3. PFI staff (loan officers) 
as well as ABMPIU staff 
and selected MEES 
(young field professionals) 
Environmental analysis 
including environmental 
impact assessment 
procedures 
Three day workshop on 
environmental analysis 
and impact assessment 
with emphasis (i) on 
national and World Bank 
requirements for 
environmental assessment, 
mitigation, monitoring and 
reporting; (ii) screening 
and scoping procedures 
including checklists (iii)  
the generic procedures for 
environmental assessment 
Eight days of international 
consultant time for first 
group of 24 officers; four 
days of consultant time for 
each additional group of 
24.  
Page  60
Kyrgyz Republic ABM Project                       Environmental Impact Assessment                          
A
pril 2004
48
required by the World 
Bank and national 
authorities (MEES); (iv) 
management plan content; 
(v) monitoring and 
r
eporting requirements of 
the World Bank for sub-
project supervision
.
Field 
studies will be included. 
4. PFI loan officers and 
others 
User friendly manual 
A manual describing, step 
by step, how to screen 
(categorize) projects and 
to provide impacts to be 
expected and how to 
mitigate such impacts 
Nine days of manual 
preparation plus cost of 
manual production 
5. Loan officers, ABMPIU 
staff and junior MEES 
field staff 
Basic environmental 
monitoring techniques 
Three day workshop on 
monitoring techniques and 
systems 
Eight days of international 
consultant time 
Page  61
Kyrgyz Republic ABM Project                       Environmental Impact Assessment                          
A
pril 2004
49
8. REFERENCES 
 
AFC Consultants, Bonn, Germany and MNT Consulting, Bishkek, Kyrygz Republic) 
Ambrose, J.E. and E. Shukurov. 1999. Environmental Review. Second Rural Finance 
Project. 
Christian,Konrad. 2001. Abfallwirtschaft in der ledererzeugenden Industrie. Biologische 
Behandlung von nichtchromhaeltigen festen Gerbereiabfaellen. (Waste management for  
the tanning industry 
–
biological treatment for non-chrome containing solid tannery 
waste). (unpubl. dissertation thesis) 
Creighton, K. 2003. Environmental Review, Village Investment Project. 
Ministry of Agriculture, Water Resources and Food Resources Industry. 2003. Proposed 
Outline for Agro-business and Marketing Project World Bank Credit Line. (prepared by  
UNECO. 2000. Environmental Review. Kyrgyzstan. 
World Bank. 2004. Project Approval Document (draft). Agriculture and Marketing 
Project. 
Page  62
Kyrgyz Republic ABM Project                       Environmental Impact Assessment                          
A
pril 2004
50
Annex A 
 
Brief Description 
14
of Some of the Relevant Environmental Laws 
 
The Law on Wildlife 
 
This law regulates the use and protection of wildlife. It establishes the general framework 
rules for habitat protection and it obliges authorities to take requirements for habitat 
protection into account in decision making. Economic activities are not allowed to 
damage animal habitats. Provision is made for listing rare and endangered species in the 
Red Data Book. 
 
The Law on Fisheries 
 
The Law regulates commercial fishing and procedures for allocating water bodies for this 
purpose. The users are obliged to take fish protection measures, including measures to 
prevent harm to fish habitats, to keep account of fish resources, and to conduct 
monitoring. 
 
The Law on Waters 
 
This Law regulates the use and protection of waters including reservoirs, canals and other 
man-made water bodies. It also establishes measures for the prevention of floods and 
other harmful impacts. Provision is made to ensure that waters are used according to the 
respective license, which is allocated on the basis of a concession or lease for specified 
purposes. Drinking water or communal water supply purposes have priority. Water 
bodies are protected against depletion, pollution or littering through such mechanisms as 
standards, permits for the discharge of effluent and the establishment of water protection 
zones. 
 
The Law on the Protection of Ambient Air 
 
The Law mainly applies historical  instruments to air protection and specifies the 
conditions and methods in which provisions specified in other laws (maximum allowable 
concentrations, maximum allowable emissions, environmental impact assessment, etc.) 
are applied to air management. 
 
The Forest Code 
 
The Forest Code regulates the protection and use of forest resources, including trees and 
plant life. It embodies an ecosystem perspective. According to the Forest Code, forests 
are important in general nature protection and therefore cannot be allocated to 
commercial timber logging. Only sanitary and forest management logging is allowed and 
can be performed on the basis of State permits, which are given to individuals for leased 
forest areas. State permits are also required for other uses such as grazing, haymaking, 
14
 UNCEO. 2000. 
Page  63
Kyrgyz Republic ABM Project                       Environmental Impact Assessment                          
A
pril 2004
51
hunting, mushroom picking, recreation and other. The Code provides for forest protection 
measures to be taken by both the forest management authorities and the users. 
 
The Law on Specially Protected Areas, and the Law on Biosphere Territories 
 
These laws establish legal requirements for the protection and use of all natural objects 
within certain areas. Their legal regime corresponds to the types of protection areas 
specified in the laws. An ecosystem approach is also taken with these laws. 
 
The Law on Subsoil 
 
This law obliges users to ensure that safe exploitation of the subsoil and the rehabilitation 
of the lands and other natural objects. 
 
The Law on Radioactive Safety of the Population 
 
The Law aims at guaranteeing public safety and the protection of the environment against 
the harmful effects of radiation. These guarantees include permit procedures, social 
security measures, the  right of individuals to information on the impacts of radiation, and 
other measures. 
 
Norm-setting Documents  
 
The following norm-setting documents (issued by MEES) define regulations associated 
with environmental protection: 
 
(1)  Atmospheric Air Protection Rules (approved by the Minister as of January 24, 
2001, coordinated with the Ministry of Health and Interior Ministry of the KR, 
and registered by the Ministry of Justice of the KR); 
 
(2)  Guidance on accomplishing state control over atmospheric air protection against 
vehicle emissions in the KR, registered with the Ministry of Justice of the KR as 
of December 16, 1999 #104; 
 
(3)  Guidance on accomplishing state control over the standard sources of 
atmospheric air pollution, registered with the Ministry of Justice of the KR as of 
December 28, 1999 #114; 
 
(4)  Guidance on an order of norm-setting for waste treatment in the KR, approved 
by the Decree #3 of the Board of the Ministry on Environmental Protection as of 
September 17, 1999, and registered with the Ministry of Justice of the KR as of 
October 1, 1999 #73. 
 
(5)  Guidance for acquiring, selling, storing and transporting strong poisonous 
substances, permitted by the Ministry of Ecology and Emergency Situations of 
Page  64
Kyrgyz Republic ABM Project                       Environmental Impact Assessment                          
A
pril 2004
52
the KR, approved by the Decree of the Government of the KR #513 as of 
September 21, 1999; 
 
(6)  Guidance for accomplishing environmental impact assessment (EIA) of an 
intended activity in the KR, approved by the Decree of the Minister of 
Environmental Protection as of July 27, 1997, coordinated with the Ministry of 
Health and Ministry of Architecture and Construction, registered with the 
Ministry of Justice of the KR as of as of July 4, 1997 # 386; 
 
(7)  Guidance for accomplishing state environmental expertise of pre-project, project 
and other documents in the KR (approved by the Minister of Environmental 
Protection of the KR as of October 15, 1997); 
 
(8)  Rules of cooperation between bodies of public prosecution, Ministry of National 
Security, Interior Ministry, State Customs Inspectorate, and Ministry of Ecology 
and Emergency Situations of the KR to prosecute violations of environmental 
legislation (coordinated with the Ministry of National Security, Interior Ministry, 
Customs Inspectorate, and General Office of Public Prosecutor as of 2001); 
 
(9)  Guidance on determining emission (from stationary points), discharge and waste 
disposal fees (approved by Decree #4 of the Board of the Ministry on 
Environmental Protection of the KR as of September 17, 1999, and registered 
with the Ministry of Justice); 
 
(10) 
Guidance on determining vehicle emissions’ fee  (approved by Decree #4 of the 
Board of the Ministry on Environmental Protection as of September 17, 1999, 
and registered with the Ministry of Justice); 
 
(11) Guidance for conducting environmental audits of economic entities (approved by 
Decree #19 of the Ministry of Environmental Protection as of February 15, 
2000).  
 
Normative documents of other state institutions 
 
‰\03
Documents of the Health Ministry of the KR
,
Sanitary norms and regulations on 
radioactive waste treatment (2000) approved by the Decree of the Chief State 
Sanitary Doctor of the KR # 8 as of February 12, 2000; 
 
‰\03
Documents of the Ministry of Agriculture, Water and Processing Industry (MAWPI) 
of the KR, 
Guidance on Safety Pesticide Use and Storage in Agricultural Production 
(approved by the MAWPI Decree # 309 of November 26, 2001); List of pesticides 
and agrochemicals permitted for use in the KR for 2000-2004 approved by Decree # 
180 of the Ministry of Agriculture, Water and Processing Industry of June 10, 2002,   
registered by the Ministry of Justice on June 26, 2002. 
 
Page  65
Kyrgyz Republic ABM Project                       Environmental Impact Assessment                          
A
pril 2004
53
‰\03
Documents of the State Architecture and Construction Inspectorate (SACI) 
Construction norms and regulations of the KR on basic provisions for putting 
completed structures into operation (approved and enforced by the SACI Decree # 8 
of June 27, 2000). 
 
‰\03
Documents of the State Real Estate Property, 
Instructions on drafting and issuing 
documents certifying the land ownership rights approved by Decree # 61 of the State 
Real Estate Agency as of August 10, 2000. 
Page  66
Kyrgyz Republic ABM Project                       Environmental Impact Assessment                          
A
pril 2004
54
 
Annex B 
 
Impacts, Causes, Consequences and Mitigation 
Agribusiness (agro-processing and other) 
Page  67
K
y
r
g
y
z
R
e
p
u
b
l
i
c
A
B
M
P
r
o
j
e
c
t
E
n
v
i
r
o
n
m
e
n
t
a
l
I
m
p
a
c
t
A
s
s
e
s
s
m
e
n
t
A
p
r
i
l
2
0
0
4
5
5
T
a
b
l
e
B
1
F
o
r
P
l
a
n
n
i
n
g
a
n
d
C
o
n
s
t
r
u
c
t
i
o
n
o
f
a
l
l
N
e
w
E
n
t
e
r
p
r
i
s
e
s
,
R
e
h
a
b
i
l
i
t
a
t
i
o
n
o
f
E
x
i
s
t
i
n
g
E
n
t
e
r
p
r
i
s
e
s
a
n
d
D
e
-
c
o
m
m
i
s
s
i
o
n
i
n
g
o
f
a
l
l
E
n
t
e
r
p
r
i
s
e
s
P
o
t
e
n
t
i
a
l
I
m
p
a
c
t
s
C
a
u
s
e
s
C
o
n
s
e
q
u
e
n
c
e
s
M
i
t
i
g
a
t
i
o
n
R
e
q
u
i
r
e
d
R
e
m
a
r
k
s
P
l
a
n
n
i
n
g
P
h
a
s
e
:
L
o
s
s
o
f
b
i
o
d
i
v
e
r
s
i
t
y
P
o
o
r
l
o
c
a
t
i
o
n
a
n
a
l
y
s
i
s
n
o
t
t
a
k
i
n
g
i
n
t
o
a
c
c
o
u
n
t
i
m
p
o
r
t
a
n
t
b
i
o
p
h
y
s
i
c
a
l
v
a
l
u
e
s
.
L
o
s
s
o
f
f
l
o
r
a
a
n
d
f
a
u
n
a
.
L
o
c
a
t
i
o
n
i
n
a
r
e
a
s
t
h
a
t
a
r
e
n
o
t
h
i
g
h
p
r
i
o
r
i
t
y
f
o
r
b
i
o
d
i
v
e
r
s
i
t
y
p
r
o
t
e
c
t
i
o
n
.
L
o
s
s
o
f
c
u
l
t
u
r
a
l
f
e
a
t
u
r
e
s
P
o
o
r
l
o
c
a
t
i
o
n
a
n
a
l
y
s
i
s
n
o
t
p
r
o
v
i
d
i
n
g
c
o
n
s
i
d
e
r
a
t
i
o
n
t
o
c
u
l
t
u
r
a
l
v
a
l
u
e
s
.
L
o
s
s
o
f
i
m
p
o
r
t
a
n
t
c
u
l
t
u
r
a
l
s
i
t
e
s
a
n
d
s
t
r
u
c
t
u
r
e
s
.
L
o
c
a
t
i
o
n
i
n
a
r
e
a
s
o
f
l
i
t
t
l
e
o
r
n
o
c
u
l
t
u
r
a
l
s
i
g
n
i
f
i
c
a
n
c
e
.
P
u
b
l
i
c
p
a
r
t
i
c
i
p
a
t
i
o
n
i
s
a
r
e
q
u
i
r
e
m
e
n
t
f
o
r
a
l
l
E
I
A
s
a
n
d
i
f
p
r
o
p
e
r
l
y
c
o
n
d
u
c
t
e
d
d
u
r
i
n
g
E
I
A
w
i
l
l
e
n
s
u
r
e
i
n
p
u
t
r
e
q
u
i
r
e
d
t
o
s
e
l
e
c
t
a
p
p
r
o
p
r
i
a
t
e
a
l
t
e
r
n
a
t
i
v
e
s
i
t
e
s
.
S
o
c
i
a
l
l
y
u
n
a
c
c
e
p
t
a
b
l
e
P
o
o
r
l
o
c
a
t
i
o
n
a
n
a
l
y
s
i
s
n
o
t
t
a
k
i
n
g
i
n
t
o
c
o
n
s
i
d
e
r
a
t
i
o
n
l
o
c
a
l
c
o
m
m
u
n
i
t
i
e
s
’
l
i
f
e
s
t
y
l
e
,
m
o
v
e
m
e
n
t
p
a
t
t
e
r
n
s
a
n
d
v
a
l
u
e
s
.
N
u
i
s
a
n
c
e
f
a
c
t
o
r
t
o
l
o
c
a
l
c
o
m
m
u
n
i
t
i
e
s
;
l
o
s
s
o
f
p
e
a
c
e
a
n
d
q
u
i
e
t
;
l
o
s
s
o
f
a
c
c
e
s
s
t
o
o
t
h
e
r
a
r
e
a
s
o
r
s
i
t
e
s
(
e
.
g
.
s
c
h
o
o
l
c
h
i
l
d
r
e
n
m
a
y
h
a
v
e
t
o
w
a
l
k
g
r
e
a
t
e
r
d
i
s
t
a
n
c
e
s
d
u
e
t
o
l
o
s
s
o
f
d
i
r
e
c
t
r
o
u
t
e
t
o
s
c
h
o
o
l
.
L
o
c
a
t
i
o
n
i
n
a
r
e
a
s
w
h
e
r
e
n
o
i
s
e
,
o
d
o
u
r
o
r
a
e
s
t
h
e
t
i
c
s
w
i
l
l
n
o
t
b
e
a
p
r
o
b
l
e
m
;
l
o
c
a
t
i
o
n
t
o
b
e
s
e
l
e
c
t
e
d
w
h
i
c
h
d
o
e
s
n
’
t
i
n
t
e
r
f
e
r
e
w
i
t
h
i
m
p
o
r
t
a
n
t
a
c
c
e
s
s
(
e
.
g
.
t
o
s
c
h
o
o
l
s
)
.
P
u
b
l
i
c
p
a
r
t
i
c
i
p
a
t
i
o
n
i
s
a
r
e
q
u
i
r
e
m
e
n
t
f
o
r
a
l
l
E
I
A
s
a
n
d
i
f
p
r
o
p
e
r
l
y
c
o
n
d
u
c
t
e
d
d
u
r
i
n
g
E
I
A
w
i
l
l
e
n
s
u
r
e
i
n
p
u
t
r
e
q
u
i
r
e
d
t
o
s
e
l
e
c
t
a
p
p
r
o
p
r
i
a
t
e
a
l
t
e
r
n
a
t
i
v
e
s
i
t
e
s
(
a
n
d
m
o
d
u
s
o
p
e
r
a
n
d
i
)
f
o
r
e
n
t
e
r
p
r
i
s
e
.
C
o
n
s
t
r
u
c
t
i
o
n
P
h
a
s
e
:
S
o
i
l
e
r
o
s
i
o
n
V
e
g
e
t
a
t
i
o
n
a
n
d
t
o
p
s
o
i
l
i
s
r
e
m
o
v
e
d
f
o
r
i
n
i
t
i
a
l
c
o
n
s
t
r
u
c
t
i
o
n
a
n
d
a
c
c
e
s
s
,
e
x
p
o
s
i
n
g
b
a
r
e
s
o
i
l
t
h
a
t
i
s
v
u
l
n
e
r
a
b
l
e
t
o
e
r
o
s
i
o
n
,
p
a
r
t
i
c
u
l
a
r
l
y
i
n
r
a
i
n
y
p
e
r
i
o
d
s
.
F
u
r
t
h
e
r
s
o
i
l
e
r
o
s
i
o
n
o
f
f
-
s
i
t
e
a
n
d
d
o
w
n
s
t
r
e
a
m
;
i
n
c
r
e
a
s
e
d
s
e
d
i
m
e
n
t
l
o
a
d
s
i
n
r
e
c
e
i
v
i
n
g
s
t
r
e
a
m
s
r
e
s
u
l
t
i
n
g
i
n
a
q
u
a
t
i
c
h
a
b
i
t
a
t
c
h
a
n
g
e
s
.
E
n
s
u
r
e
a
w
a
r
e
n
e
s
s
b
y
w
o
r
k
e
r
s
;
a
d
o
p
t
a
p
p
r
o
p
r
i
a
t
e
s
o
i
l
p
r
o
t
e
c
t
i
o
n
t
e
c
h
n
i
q
u
e
s
;
e
n
s
u
r
e
e
x
p
o
s
e
d
s
o
i
l
s
u
r
f
a
c
e
s
a
r
e
k
e
p
t
t
o
a
m
i
n
i
m
u
m
a
n
d
f
o
r
s
h
o
r
t
p
e
r
i
o
d
s
o
f
t
i
m
e
;
c
o
n
s
e
r
v
e
t
o
p
s
o
i
l
,
r
e
c
o
v
e
r
a
n
d
r
e
p
l
a
n
t
w
h
e
n
c
o
n
s
t
r
u
c
t
i
o
n
i
s
c
o
m
p
l
e
t
e
d
.
I
f
p
o
s
s
i
b
l
e
c
o
n
s
t
r
u
c
t
i
o
n
s
h
o
u
l
d
o
c
c
u
r
i
n
d
r
y
p
e
r
i
o
d
s
o
r
s
e
a
s
o
n
s
,
p
a
r
t
i
c
u
l
a
r
l
y
i
n
s
i
t
u
a
t
i
o
n
s
w
h
e
r
e
s
o
i
l
e
r
o
s
i
o
n
c
o
u
l
d
b
e
a
p
r
o
b
l
e
m
.
S
o
i
l
c
o
n
t
a
m
i
n
a
t
i
o
n
S
p
i
l
l
e
d
a
n
d
d
u
m
p
e
d
f
u
e
l
s
,
a
n
d
o
t
h
e
r
c
h
e
m
i
c
a
l
s
.
I
n
e
f
f
e
c
t
i
v
e
o
n
-
s
i
t
e
s
e
w
a
g
e
t
r
e
a
t
m
e
n
t
d
u
r
i
n
g
c
o
n
s
t
r
u
c
t
i
o
n
p
h
a
s
e
.
L
o
s
s
o
f
s
o
i
l
p
r
o
d
u
c
t
i
v
i
t
y
.
C
o
n
t
a
m
i
n
a
t
e
d
g
r
o
u
n
d
w
a
t
e
r
.
E
n
v
i
r
o
n
m
e
n
t
a
l
a
w
a
r
e
n
e
s
s
;
t
r
a
i
n
i
n
g
i
n
h
a
n
d
l
i
n
g
a
n
d
s
t
o
r
a
g
e
o
f
f
u
e
l
s
,
l
u
b
r
i
c
a
n
t
s
a
n
d
c
h
e
m
i
c
a
l
s
;
p
r
o
v
i
s
i
o
n
o
f
p
r
o
p
e
r
o
n
-
s
i
t
e
s
t
o
r
a
g
e
f
a
c
i
l
i
t
i
e
s
.
Page  68
K
y
r
g
y
z
R
e
p
u
b
l
i
c
A
B
M
P
r
o
j
e
c
t
E
n
v
i
r
o
n
m
e
n
t
a
l
I
m
p
a
c
t
A
s
s
e
s
s
m
e
n
t
A
p
r
i
l
2
0
0
4
5
6
W
a
t
e
r
p
o
l
l
u
t
i
o
n
S
p
i
l
l
e
d
a
n
d
d
u
m
p
e
d
f
u
e
l
s
a
n
d
o
t
h
e
r
c
h
e
m
i
c
a
l
s
.
C
o
n
t
a
m
i
n
a
t
e
d
g
r
o
u
n
d
w
a
t
e
r
a
n
d
s
u
r
f
a
c
e
w
a
t
e
r
r
e
s
u
l
t
i
n
g
i
n
c
o
n
t
a
m
i
n
a
t
e
d
d
r
i
n
k
i
n
g
w
a
t
e
r
a
n
d
i
n
t
h
e
c
a
s
e
o
f
s
u
r
f
a
c
e
w
a
t
e
r
,
d
a
m
a
g
e
d
a
q
u
a
t
i
c
e
c
o
s
y
s
t
e
m
.
S
a
m
e
a
s
a
b
o
v
e
.
P
r
o
v
i
s
i
o
n
o
f
w
a
s
t
e
c
o
n
t
a
i
n
i
n
g
t
o
i
l
e
t
s
w
h
i
c
h
w
a
s
t
e
c
a
n
b
e
t
r
a
n
s
f
e
r
r
e
d
t
o
a
m
u
n
i
c
i
p
a
l
t
r
e
a
t
m
e
n
t
f
a
c
i
l
i
t
y
.
N
o
i
s
e
a
n
d
d
u
s
t
V
e
h
i
c
l
e
s
a
n
d
c
o
n
s
t
r
u
c
t
i
o
n
m
a
c
h
i
n
e
r
y
;
d
i
r
t
a
c
c
e
s
s
r
o
a
d
s
.
N
u
i
s
a
n
c
e
f
a
c
t
o
r
t
o
n
e
i
g
h
b
o
r
i
n
g
c
o
m
m
u
n
i
t
i
e
s
.
O
p
e
r
a
t
i
o
n
s
d
u
r
i
n
g
n
o
r
m
a
l
w
o
r
k
i
n
g
h
o
u
r
s
o
n
l
y
;
a
c
c
e
s
s
r
o
a
d
s
t
o
b
e
w
a
t
e
r
e
d
d
u
r
i
n
g
d
r
y
p
e
r
i
o
d
s
.
S
o
l
i
d
w
a
s
t
e
L
i
t
t
e
r
i
n
g
o
f
u
n
u
s
e
d
c
o
n
s
t
r
u
c
t
i
o
n
m
a
t
e
r
i
a
l
s
a
n
d
w
o
r
k
e
r
s
p
e
r
s
o
n
a
l
g
a
r
b
a
g
e
.
U
n
s
i
g
h
t
l
y
a
n
d
r
e
m
n
a
n
t
c
o
n
s
t
r
u
c
t
i
o
n
m
a
t
e
r
i
a
l
s
c
o
u
l
d
p
o
s
e
a
s
a
f
e
t
y
h
a
z
a
r
d
.
E
f
f
e
c
t
i
v
e
d
i
s
p
o
s
a
l
o
f
m
a
t
e
r
i
a
l
s
a
n
d
g
a
r
b
a
g
e
i
n
d
e
s
i
g
n
a
t
e
d
w
a
s
t
e
d
i
s
p
o
s
a
l
s
i
t
e
s
.
L
o
s
s
o
f
a
c
c
e
s
s
C
o
n
s
t
r
u
c
t
i
o
n
s
i
t
e
m
a
y
h
a
v
e
f
o
r
m
e
r
l
y
b
e
e
n
u
s
e
d
a
s
a
n
a
c
c
e
s
s
f
o
r
l
o
c
a
l
p
o
p
u
l
a
t
i
o
n
(
a
n
d
v
e
h
i
c
l
e
s
)
f
o
r
v
a
r
i
o
u
s
s
e
c
t
i
o
n
s
o
f
t
h
e
c
o
m
m
u
n
i
t
y
.
N
u
i
s
a
n
c
e
a
n
d
p
o
s
s
i
b
l
y
e
c
o
n
o
m
i
c
h
a
r
d
s
h
i
p
.
D
u
r
i
n
g
p
l
a
n
n
i
n
g
p
h
a
s
e
e
n
s
u
r
e
t
h
a
t
l
o
c
a
l
p
e
o
p
l
e
a
r
e
a
w
a
r
e
o
f
r
e
s
t
r
i
c
t
i
o
n
s
d
u
r
i
n
g
c
o
n
s
t
r
u
c
t
i
o
n
a
n
d
a
l
t
e
r
n
a
t
i
v
e
a
r
r
a
n
g
e
m
e
n
t
s
f
o
r
a
c
c
e
s
s
a
r
e
p
r
o
v
i
d
e
d
.
P
u
b
l
i
c
p
a
r
t
i
c
i
p
a
t
i
o
n
d
u
r
i
n
g
p
l
a
n
n
i
n
g
p
h
a
s
e
s
h
o
u
l
d
i
d
e
n
t
i
f
y
t
h
i
s
a
n
d
s
i
m
i
l
a
r
c
o
n
f
l
i
c
t
s
.
I
n
j
u
r
i
e
s
I
n
a
d
e
q
u
a
t
e
s
a
f
e
t
y
p
r
o
c
e
d
u
r
e
s
f
o
r
w
o
r
k
e
r
s
;
i
n
a
d
e
q
u
a
t
e
s
i
g
n
a
g
e
a
n
d
c
o
n
s
t
r
u
c
t
i
o
n
a
c
t
i
v
i
t
i
e
s
e
x
p
o
s
e
d
w
h
e
r
e
p
u
b
l
i
c
c
a
n
i
n
t
e
r
f
a
c
e
w
i
t
h
s
u
c
h
.
I
n
j
u
r
y
/
d
e
a
t
h
r
e
s
u
l
t
i
n
g
i
n
l
o
s
t
w
o
r
k
d
a
y
s
(
f
o
r
c
o
n
s
t
r
u
c
t
i
o
n
w
o
r
k
e
r
s
a
n
d
g
e
n
e
r
a
l
p
u
b
l
i
c
;
l
o
s
t
i
n
c
o
m
e
.
E
n
s
u
r
e
c
o
n
s
t
r
u
c
t
i
o
n
w
o
r
k
e
r
s
a
r
e
g
i
v
e
n
s
a
f
e
t
y
i
n
s
t
r
u
c
t
i
o
n
;
e
n
s
u
r
e
s
a
f
e
t
y
o
f
f
i
c
e
r
s
o
n
s
i
t
e
;
e
n
s
u
r
e
e
f
f
e
c
t
i
v
e
s
i
g
n
a
g
e
f
o
r
t
h
e
p
u
b
l
i
c
a
n
d
e
n
s
u
r
e
t
h
a
t
a
l
l
e
x
p
o
s
e
d
c
o
n
s
t
r
u
c
t
i
o
n
a
r
e
a
s
a
r
e
b
a
r
r
i
c
a
d
e
d
f
r
o
m
p
u
b
l
i
c
a
c
c
e
s
s
.
D
e
c
o
m
m
i
s
s
i
o
n
i
n
g
P
h
a
s
e
:
(
i
t
i
s
u
n
l
i
k
e
l
y
t
h
a
t
a
n
y
o
f
t
h
e
e
n
t
e
r
p
r
i
s
e
s
w
i
l
l
u
n
d
e
r
g
o
d
e
c
o
m
m
i
s
s
i
o
n
i
n
g
i
n
a
2
5
-
5
0
p
e
r
i
o
d
f
r
o
m
i
n
i
t
i
a
l
s
t
a
r
t
u
p
o
r
r
e
f
u
r
b
i
s
h
m
e
n
t
b
u
t
i
f
s
u
c
h
s
h
o
u
l
d
o
c
c
u
r
t
h
e
n
t
h
e
l
i
s
t
e
d
i
m
p
a
c
t
s
s
h
o
u
l
d
b
e
c
o
n
s
i
d
e
r
e
d
)
.
S
a
m
e
a
s
a
b
o
v
e
f
o
r
c
o
n
s
t
r
u
c
t
i
o
n
p
l
u
s
:
S
e
e
a
b
o
v
e
S
e
e
a
b
o
v
e
S
e
e
a
b
o
v
e
Page  69
K
y
r
g
y
z
R
e
p
u
b
l
i
c
A
B
M
P
r
o
j
e
c
t
E
n
v
i
r
o
n
m
e
n
t
a
l
I
m
p
a
c
t
A
s
s
e
s
s
m
e
n
t
A
p
r
i
l
2
0
0
4
5
7
W
a
s
t
e
C
o
n
c
r
e
t
e
,
b
l
o
c
k
s
,
s
t
e
e
l
,
g
l
a
s
s
w
i
l
l
r
e
s
u
l
t
f
r
o
m
d
e
m
o
l
i
t
i
o
n
;
o
l
d
e
q
u
i
p
m
e
n
t
w
i
l
l
b
e
d
i
s
m
a
n
t
l
e
d
.
P
u
b
l
i
c
s
a
f
e
t
y
h
a
z
a
r
d
.
W
a
s
t
e
o
f
r
e
s
o
u
r
c
e
s
.
R
e
m
o
v
a
l
a
n
d
r
e
c
y
c
l
i
n
g
o
r
e
f
f
e
c
t
i
v
e
d
i
s
p
o
s
a
l
o
f
a
l
l
t
o
x
i
c
m
a
t
e
r
i
a
l
s
;
c
o
m
p
l
e
t
e
d
e
m
o
l
i
t
i
o
n
a
f
t
e
r
r
e
c
y
c
l
i
n
g
u
s
e
f
u
l
m
a
t
e
r
i
a
l
s
;
r
e
m
o
v
a
l
t
o
a
d
e
s
i
g
n
a
t
e
d
a
n
d
e
n
v
i
r
o
n
m
e
n
t
a
l
l
y
s
a
f
e
d
i
s
p
o
s
a
l
s
i
t
e
a
n
d
b
u
r
i
a
l
o
f
c
l
e
a
n
a
n
d
i
n
e
r
t
m
a
t
e
r
i
a
l
s
.
A
e
s
t
h
e
t
i
c
s
U
n
s
i
g
h
t
l
y
s
i
t
e
(
a
s
a
r
e
m
a
n
y
i
n
d
u
s
t
r
i
a
l
s
i
t
e
s
f
r
o
m
f
o
r
m
e
r
S
o
v
i
e
t
t
i
m
e
s
)
.
F
o
l
l
o
w
i
n
g
r
e
m
o
v
a
l
o
f
a
l
l
m
a
t
e
r
i
a
l
s
(
s
e
e
a
b
o
v
e
)
,
s
i
t
e
t
o
b
e
f
o
r
m
e
d
(
t
o
p
s
o
i
l
e
d
w
h
e
r
e
r
e
l
e
v
a
n
t
a
n
d
f
e
a
s
i
b
l
e
)
a
n
d
l
a
n
d
s
c
a
p
e
d
,
w
h
e
r
e
a
p
p
r
o
p
r
i
a
t
e
,
t
o
s
u
i
t
s
u
r
r
o
u
n
d
i
n
g
a
r
e
a
s
.
S
o
i
l
e
r
o
s
i
o
n
A
s
f
o
r
c
o
n
s
t
r
u
c
t
i
o
n
p
h
a
s
e
a
b
o
v
e
.
S
a
f
e
t
y
A
s
f
o
r
c
o
n
s
t
r
u
c
t
i
o
n
p
h
a
s
e
a
b
o
v
e
.
Page  70
K
y
r
g
y
z
R
e
p
u
b
l
i
c
A
B
M
P
r
o
j
e
c
t
E
n
v
i
r
o
n
m
e
n
t
a
l
I
m
p
a
c
t
A
s
s
e
s
s
m
e
n
t
A
p
r
i
l
2
0
0
4
5
8
T
a
b
l
e
B
2
A
b
a
t
t
o
i
r
O
v
e
r
a
l
l
P
o
t
e
n
t
i
a
l
I
m
p
a
c
t
:
H
I
G
H
(
d
u
e
t
o
t
h
r
e
a
t
t
o
h
u
m
a
n
h
e
a
l
t
h
t
h
r
e
a
t
)
P
o
t
e
n
t
i
a
l
I
m
p
a
c
t
s
C
a
u
s
e
C
o
n
s
e
q
u
e
n
c
e
s
M
i
t
i
g
a
t
i
o
n
R
e
q
u
i
r
e
d
R
e
m
a
r
k
s
C
o
n
t
a
m
i
n
a
t
e
d
m
e
a
t
P
o
o
r
s
a
n
i
t
a
r
y
c
o
n
d
i
t
i
o
n
s
i
n
c
l
u
d
i
n
g
l
a
c
k
o
f
p
r
o
t
e
c
t
i
v
e
c
l
o
t
h
i
n
g
a
n
d
i
n
e
f
f
e
c
t
i
v
e
m
a
i
n
t
e
n
a
n
c
e
;
p
r
o
c
e
s
s
i
n
g
o
f
s
i
c
k
a
n
d
d
i
s
e
a
s
e
d
a
n
i
m
a
l
s
.
C
o
n
s
u
m
e
r
s
b
e
c
o
m
e
i
l
l
;
l
o
s
t
w
o
r
k
d
a
y
s
;
l
o
s
t
p
r
o
d
u
c
t
i
v
i
t
y
a
n
d
i
n
c
o
m
e
;
a
b
a
t
t
o
i
r
’
s
r
e
p
u
t
a
t
i
o
n
l
e
a
d
s
t
o
l
o
s
t
b
u
s
i
n
e
s
s
.
P
r
o
v
i
s
i
o
n
o
f
p
r
o
t
e
c
t
i
v
e
c
l
o
t
h
i
n
g
;
e
f
f
e
c
t
i
v
e
u
s
e
o
f
d
i
s
i
n
f
e
c
t
a
n
t
s
;
e
f
f
e
c
t
i
v
e
s
a
n
i
t
a
r
y
i
n
s
p
e
c
t
i
o
n
s
l
e
a
d
i
n
g
t
o
r
e
q
u
i
r
e
d
s
t
a
n
d
a
r
d
s
b
e
i
n
g
m
e
t
;
e
f
f
e
c
t
i
v
e
r
e
g
u
l
a
t
o
r
y
a
n
i
m
a
l
a
n
d
m
e
a
t
i
n
s
p
e
c
t
i
o
n
.
G
o
v
e
r
n
m
e
n
t
i
n
s
p
e
c
t
i
o
n
s
c
a
n
b
e
e
r
r
a
t
i
c
a
n
d
p
e
r
h
a
p
s
n
o
t
a
l
w
a
y
s
e
f
f
e
c
t
i
v
e
l
y
c
o
n
d
u
c
t
e
d
.
R
e
s
i
d
e
n
t
s
o
f
B
i
s
h
k
e
k
a
r
e
v
e
r
y
c
a
u
t
i
o
u
s
w
i
t
h
m
e
a
t
p
u
r
c
h
a
s
e
s
b
e
c
a
u
s
e
o
f
f
a
u
l
t
y
m
e
a
t
i
n
s
p
e
c
t
i
o
n
s
a
n
d
r
e
c
o
r
d
o
f
p
e
o
p
l
e
b
e
c
o
m
i
n
g
i
l
l
a
n
d
d
y
i
n
g
.
T
h
i
s
h
o
w
e
v
e
r
i
s
m
a
i
n
l
y
r
e
l
a
t
e
d
t
o
s
m
a
l
l
f
a
r
m
s
l
a
u
g
h
t
e
r
a
n
d
n
o
t
t
h
e
c
o
m
m
e
r
c
i
a
l
a
b
a
t
t
o
i
r
s
.
C
o
n
t
a
m
i
n
a
t
e
d
g
r
o
u
n
d
w
a
t
e
r
a
n
d
s
u
r
f
a
c
e
w
a
t
e
r
I
m
p
r
o
p
e
r
d
i
s
p
o
s
a
l
o
f
a
n
i
m
a
l
m
a
n
u
r
e
a
n
d
o
f
f
a
l
a
s
w
e
l
l
a
s
b
o
n
e
s
a
n
d
o
t
h
e
r
n
o
n
-
u
s
e
a
b
l
e
a
n
i
m
a
l
p
a
r
t
s
i
n
c
l
u
d
i
n
g
b
l
o
o
d
.
C
o
n
t
a
m
i
n
a
t
e
d
d
r
i
n
k
i
n
g
(
E
.
c
o
l
i
)
w
a
t
e
r
r
e
s
u
l
t
i
n
g
i
n
i
l
l
n
e
s
s
(
p
o
s
s
i
b
l
y
d
e
a
t
h
)
,
l
o
s
t
p
r
o
d
u
c
t
i
v
i
t
y
a
n
d
i
n
c
o
m
e
.
G
r
o
u
n
d
w
a
s
t
e
b
o
n
e
,
m
e
a
t
a
n
d
o
f
f
a
l
i
n
t
o
f
l
o
u
r
f
o
r
a
n
i
m
a
l
f
e
e
d
(
s
e
e
r
e
m
a
r
k
s
)
;
b
l
o
o
d
c
a
n
b
e
u
s
e
d
f
o
r
b
l
o
o
d
s
a
u
s
a
g
e
;
o
t
h
e
r
w
a
t
e
r
a
n
d
b
l
o
o
d
w
a
s
t
e
m
u
s
t
b
e
c
o
l
l
e
c
t
e
d
a
n
d
t
r
e
a
t
e
d
b
e
f
o
r
e
p
r
o
p
e
r
d
i
s
p
o
s
a
l
i
n
t
o
m
u
n
i
c
i
p
a
l
w
a
s
t
e
t
r
e
a
t
m
e
n
t
s
y
s
t
e
m
s
;
m
a
n
u
r
e
s
h
o
u
l
d
b
e
r
e
c
y
c
l
e
d
o
r
a
l
l
o
w
e
d
t
o
m
a
t
u
r
e
i
n
a
n
i
m
p
e
r
v
i
o
u
s
c
o
n
t
a
i
n
m
e
n
t
–
m
a
t
u
r
e
m
a
n
u
r
e
c
a
n
b
e
a
p
p
l
i
e
d
a
s
f
e
r
t
i
l
i
z
e
r
f
o
r
c
r
o
p
p
r
o
d
u
c
t
i
o
n
o
r
o
n
p
a
s
t
u
r
e
s
.
C
u
r
r
e
n
t
b
a
n
o
n
u
s
i
n
g
s
u
c
h
f
l
o
u
r
a
s
a
n
i
m
a
l
f
e
e
d
i
n
o
t
h
e
r
c
o
u
n
t
r
i
e
s
d
u
e
t
o
t
h
r
e
a
t
o
f
s
p
o
n
g
i
f
o
r
m
e
n
c
e
p
h
a
l
i
t
i
s
(
B
C
E
-
m
a
d
c
o
w
d
i
s
e
a
s
e
)
w
h
i
c
h
c
a
n
r
e
s
u
l
t
i
n
d
e
a
d
l
y
J
a
c
o
b
K
r
e
i
f
e
l
d
t
d
i
s
e
a
s
e
i
n
h
u
m
a
n
s
f
o
r
t
h
o
s
e
c
o
n
s
u
m
i
n
g
m
e
a
t
o
f
i
n
f
e
c
t
e
d
a
n
i
m
a
l
s
.
O
d
o
u
r
M
a
n
u
r
e
;
r
e
f
r
i
g
e
r
a
n
t
s
(
N
H
3
)
;
a
n
i
m
a
l
s
a
n
d
c
a
r
c
a
s
s
e
s
.
N
u
i
s
a
n
c
e
t
o
n
e
a
r
b
y
r
e
s
i
d
e
n
t
s
.
A
v
o
i
d
e
s
c
a
p
i
n
g
N
H
3
;
m
a
i
n
t
a
i
n
g
o
o
d
s
a
n
i
t
a
r
y
c
o
n
d
i
t
i
o
n
s
;
d
i
s
p
o
s
e
o
f
m
a
n
u
r
e
i
n
a
t
i
m
e
l
y
f
a
s
h
i
o
n
.
Page  71
K
y
r
g
y
z
R
e
p
u
b
l
i
c
A
B
M
P
r
o
j
e
c
t
E
n
v
i
r
o
n
m
e
n
t
a
l
I
m
p
a
c
t
A
s
s
e
s
s
m
e
n
t
A
p
r
i
l
2
0
0
4
5
9
O
z
o
n
e
d
e
p
l
e
t
i
o
n
R
e
f
r
i
g
e
r
a
t
i
o
n
a
n
d
f
r
e
e
z
i
n
g
u
n
i
t
s
u
t
i
l
i
z
i
n
g
F
r
e
o
n
o
r
a
m
m
o
n
i
a
.
I
n
c
r
e
a
s
e
i
n
U
V
r
a
y
s
r
e
s
u
l
t
i
n
g
i
n
s
k
i
n
c
a
n
c
e
r
i
f
p
r
o
p
e
r
p
r
o
t
e
c
t
i
o
n
i
s
n
o
t
t
a
k
e
n
;
c
a
n
a
l
s
o
a
f
f
e
c
t
p
l
a
n
t
h
e
a
l
t
h
.
C
o
n
v
e
r
t
r
e
f
r
i
g
e
r
a
n
t
s
f
r
o
m
o
z
o
n
e
d
e
p
l
e
t
i
n
g
s
u
b
s
t
a
n
c
e
s
(
N
H
3
a
n
d
c
h
l
o
r
o
f
l
u
o
r
o
c
a
r
b
o
n
s
)
t
o
a
h
y
d
r
o
f
l
u
o
r
o
c
a
r
b
o
n
.
K
R
i
s
s
i
g
n
a
t
o
r
y
t
o
t
h
e
V
i
e
n
n
a
C
o
n
v
e
n
t
i
o
n
a
n
d
t
h
e
M
o
n
t
r
e
a
l
P
r
o
t
o
c
o
l
r
e
:
o
z
o
n
e
-
d
e
p
l
e
t
i
n
g
s
u
b
s
t
a
n
c
e
s
.
G
r
o
u
n
d
w
a
t
e
r
d
e
p
l
e
t
i
o
n
L
a
r
g
e
v
o
l
u
m
e
s
o
f
w
a
t
e
r
u
s
e
d
i
n
w
a
s
h
i
n
g
.
L
o
w
e
r
i
n
g
o
f
w
a
t
e
r
t
a
b
l
e
a
n
d
d
e
p
l
e
t
i
o
n
o
f
w
a
t
e
r
r
e
s
o
u
r
c
e
s
r
e
q
u
i
r
e
d
b
y
o
t
h
e
r
s
.
W
a
t
e
r
a
p
p
o
r
t
i
o
n
i
n
g
;
e
f
f
i
c
i
e
n
t
u
s
e
o
f
w
a
t
e
r
i
n
c
l
u
d
i
n
g
r
e
c
y
c
l
i
n
g
.
O
f
p
a
r
t
i
c
u
l
a
r
c
o
n
c
e
r
n
w
h
e
n
p
l
a
n
n
i
n
g
a
n
e
w
a
b
a
t
t
o
i
r
t
h
a
t
w
a
t
e
r
r
e
s
o
u
r
c
e
s
a
r
e
s
u
f
f
i
c
i
e
n
t
t
o
m
e
e
t
n
e
e
d
s
o
f
p
r
e
s
e
n
t
a
n
d
f
u
t
u
r
e
u
s
e
r
s
.
I
n
j
u
r
i
e
s
K
n
i
v
e
s
a
n
d
s
a
w
s
u
s
e
d
i
n
t
h
e
p
r
o
c
e
s
s
i
n
g
;
l
a
r
g
e
a
n
d
h
e
a
v
y
a
n
i
m
a
l
c
a
r
c
a
s
s
e
s
c
a
n
f
a
l
l
a
n
d
c
a
u
s
e
i
n
j
u
r
y
.
L
o
s
t
p
r
o
d
u
c
t
i
v
i
t
y
,
w
o
r
k
d
a
y
s
a
n
d
i
n
c
o
m
e
.
S
a
f
e
t
y
i
n
s
t
r
u
c
t
i
o
n
s
;
s
a
f
e
t
y
c
l
o
t
h
i
n
g
w
h
e
r
e
a
p
p
r
o
p
r
i
a
t
e
(
e
.
g
.
h
a
r
d
h
a
t
s
)
.
R
e
s
i
d
u
a
l
I
m
p
a
c
t
A
s
s
u
m
i
n
g
F
u
l
l
M
i
t
i
g
a
t
i
o
n
:
L
O
W
E
n
v
i
r
o
n
m
e
n
t
a
l
R
i
s
k
:
M
O
D
E
R
A
T
E
Page  72
K
y
r
g
y
z
R
e
p
u
b
l
i
c
A
B
M
P
r
o
j
e
c
t
E
n
v
i
r
o
n
m
e
n
t
a
l
I
m
p
a
c
t
A
s
s
e
s
s
m
e
n
t
A
p
r
i
l
2
0
0
4
6
0
T
a
b
l
e
B
3
M
e
a
t
P
a
c
k
i
n
g
(
T
h
i
s
a
c
t
i
v
i
t
y
i
s
o
f
t
e
n
c
o
m
b
i
n
e
d
w
i
t
h
t
h
e
a
b
a
t
t
o
i
r
)
O
v
e
r
a
l
l
P
o
t
e
n
t
i
a
l
I
m
p
a
c
t
:
H
I
G
H
(
d
u
e
t
o
t
h
r
e
a
t
t
o
h
u
m
a
n
h
e
a
l
t
h
t
h
r
e
a
t
)
P
o
t
e
n
t
i
a
l
I
m
p
a
c
t
s
C
a
u
s
e
s
C
o
n
s
e
q
u
e
n
c
e
s
M
i
t
i
g
a
t
i
o
n
R
e
q
u
i
r
e
d
R
e
m
a
r
k
s
C
o
n
t
a
m
i
n
a
t
e
d
m
e
a
t
P
o
o
r
s
a
n
i
t
a
r
y
c
o
n
d
i
t
i
o
n
s
i
n
c
l
u
d
i
n
g
l
a
c
k
o
f
p
r
o
t
e
c
t
i
v
e
c
l
o
t
h
i
n
g
a
n
d
i
n
e
f
f
e
c
t
i
v
e
m
a
i
n
t
e
n
a
n
c
e
;
p
r
o
c
e
s
s
i
n
g
o
f
c
o
n
t
a
m
i
n
a
t
e
d
m
e
a
t
f
r
o
m
a
b
a
t
t
o
i
r
.
C
o
n
s
u
m
e
r
s
b
e
c
o
m
e
i
l
l
;
l
o
s
t
w
o
r
k
d
a
y
s
;
l
o
s
t
p
r
o
d
u
c
t
i
v
i
t
y
a
n
d
i
n
c
o
m
e
;
M
e
a
t
p
a
c
k
i
n
g
e
n
t
e
r
p
r
i
s
e
l
o
s
e
s
r
e
p
u
t
a
t
i
o
n
r
e
s
u
l
t
i
n
g
i
n
l
o
s
t
s
a
l
e
s
,
l
o
s
t
r
e
v
e
n
u
e
a
n
d
l
o
s
s
o
f
j
o
b
.
P
r
o
v
i
s
i
o
n
o
f
p
r
o
t
e
c
t
i
v
e
c
l
o
t
h
i
n
g
;
e
f
f
e
c
t
i
v
e
u
s
e
o
f
d
i
s
i
n
f
e
c
t
a
n
t
s
;
e
f
f
e
c
t
i
v
e
s
a
n
i
t
a
r
y
i
n
s
p
e
c
t
i
o
n
s
l
e
a
d
i
n
g
t
o
r
e
q
u
i
r
e
d
s
t
a
n
d
a
r
d
s
b
e
i
n
g
m
e
t
;
e
f
f
e
c
t
i
v
e
r
e
g
u
l
a
t
o
r
y
a
n
i
m
a
l
a
n
d
m
e
a
t
i
n
s
p
e
c
t
i
o
n
;
a
s
s
u
r
a
n
c
e
t
h
a
t
c
a
r
c
a
s
s
e
s
a
n
d
m
e
a
t
j
o
i
n
t
s
d
e
l
i
v
e
r
e
d
a
r
e
f
r
e
e
o
f
c
o
n
t
a
m
i
n
a
t
i
o
n
a
n
d
h
a
v
e
b
e
e
n
r
e
f
r
i
g
e
r
a
t
e
d
a
d
e
q
u
a
t
e
l
y
.
G
o
v
e
r
n
m
e
n
t
i
n
s
p
e
c
t
i
o
n
s
c
a
n
b
e
e
r
r
a
t
i
c
a
n
d
p
e
r
h
a
p
s
n
o
t
a
l
w
a
y
s
e
f
f
e
c
t
i
v
e
l
y
c
o
n
d
u
c
t
e
d
.
C
o
n
t
a
m
i
n
a
t
e
d
g
r
o
u
n
d
w
a
t
e
r
a
n
d
s
u
r
f
a
c
e
w
a
t
e
r
I
m
p
r
o
p
e
r
d
i
s
p
o
s
a
l
o
f
b
o
n
e
s
a
n
d
f
a
t
.
I
l
l
n
e
s
s
G
r
o
u
n
d
w
a
s
t
e
b
o
n
e
a
n
d
f
a
t
i
n
t
o
f
l
o
u
r
f
o
r
a
n
i
m
a
l
f
e
e
d
(
s
e
e
r
e
m
a
r
k
s
)
.
C
u
r
r
e
n
t
b
a
n
o
n
u
s
i
n
g
s
u
c
h
f
l
o
u
r
a
s
a
n
i
m
a
l
f
e
e
d
i
n
o
t
h
e
r
c
o
u
n
t
r
i
e
s
a
n
d
o
t
h
e
r
p
l
a
c
e
s
d
u
e
t
o
t
h
r
e
a
t
o
f
s
p
o
n
g
i
f
o
r
m
e
n
c
e
p
h
a
l
i
t
i
s
(
B
C
E
-
m
a
d
c
o
w
d
i
s
e
a
s
e
)
w
h
i
c
h
c
a
n
r
e
s
u
l
t
i
n
d
e
a
d
l
y
J
a
c
o
b
K
r
e
i
f
e
l
d
t
d
i
s
e
a
s
e
i
n
h
u
m
a
n
s
f
o
r
t
h
o
s
e
c
o
n
s
u
m
i
n
g
m
e
a
t
o
f
i
n
f
e
c
t
e
d
a
n
i
m
a
l
s
.
D
i
s
e
a
s
e
I
m
p
r
o
p
e
r
d
i
s
p
o
s
a
l
o
f
w
a
s
t
e
s
i
n
t
o
m
u
n
i
c
i
p
a
l
d
i
s
p
o
s
a
l
s
i
t
e
s
p
r
o
v
i
d
i
n
g
i
d
e
a
l
h
a
b
i
t
a
t
f
o
r
v
e
r
m
i
n
.
L
o
s
t
w
o
r
k
d
a
y
s
a
n
d
i
n
c
o
m
e
.
A
p
p
r
o
p
r
i
a
t
e
d
i
s
p
o
s
a
l
o
f
w
a
s
t
e
.
I
l
l
n
e
s
s
C
a
n
n
i
n
g
u
s
e
s
l
e
a
d
s
o
l
d
e
r
f
o
r
c
a
n
s
e
a
m
s
.
L
e
a
d
(
P
b
)
,
a
c
a
r
c
i
n
o
g
e
n
,
i
s
c
u
m
u
l
a
t
i
v
e
i
n
h
u
m
a
n
s
.
U
s
e
t
i
n
(
S
n
)
f
o
r
s
o
l
d
e
r
i
n
g
o
r
a
d
o
p
t
o
t
h
e
r
a
p
p
r
o
p
r
i
a
t
e
s
e
a
l
i
n
g
m
e
t
h
o
d
s
.
S
o
l
i
d
w
a
s
t
e
C
a
n
n
i
n
g
m
a
t
e
r
i
a
l
s
c
r
a
p
.
W
a
s
t
e
d
r
e
s
o
u
r
c
e
.
R
e
c
y
c
l
e
b
a
c
k
t
o
p
r
o
c
e
s
s
o
r
.
R
e
s
i
d
u
a
l
I
m
p
a
c
t
A
s
s
u
m
i
n
g
F
u
l
l
M
i
t
i
g
a
t
i
o
n
:
N
O
N
E
R
i
s
k
:
M
O
D
E
R
A
T
E
Page  73
K
y
r
g
y
z
R
e
p
u
b
l
i
c
A
B
M
P
r
o
j
e
c
t
E
n
v
i
r
o
n
m
e
n
t
a
l
I
m
p
a
c
t
A
s
s
e
s
s
m
e
n
t
A
p
r
i
l
2
0
0
4
6
1
T
a
b
l
e
B
4
V
e
g
e
t
a
b
l
e
P
r
o
c
e
s
s
i
n
g
a
n
d
C
a
n
n
i
n
g
O
v
e
r
a
l
l
P
o
t
e
n
t
i
a
l
I
m
p
a
c
t
:
L
O
W
P
o
t
e
n
t
i
a
l
I
m
p
a
c
t
s
C
a
u
s
e
s
C
o
n
s
e
q
u
e
n
c
e
s
M
i
t
i
g
a
t
i
o
n
R
e
q
u
i
r
e
d
R
e
m
a
r
k
s
D
a
m
a
g
e
t
o
a
q
u
a
t
i
c
e
c
o
s
y
s
t
e
m
s
.
R
e
s
i
d
u
e
f
r
o
m
v
e
g
e
t
a
b
l
e
a
n
d
f
r
u
i
t
s
a
l
l
o
w
e
d
t
o
b
e
d
u
m
p
e
d
i
n
t
o
s
u
r
f
a
c
e
w
a
t
e
r
s
.
H
i
g
h
o
r
g
a
n
i
c
c
o
n
t
e
n
t
l
e
a
d
i
n
g
t
o
o
x
y
g
e
n
d
e
p
l
e
t
i
o
n
a
n
d
h
a
b
i
t
a
t
d
e
s
t
r
u
c
t
i
o
n
.
C
o
m
p
o
s
t
v
e
g
e
t
a
t
i
v
e
w
a
s
t
e
.
I
l
l
n
e
s
s
C
a
n
n
i
n
g
u
s
e
s
l
e
a
d
s
o
l
d
e
r
f
o
r
c
a
n
s
e
a
m
s
.
L
e
a
d
(
P
b
)
,
a
c
a
r
c
i
n
o
g
e
n
,
i
s
c
u
m
u
l
a
t
i
v
e
i
n
h
u
m
a
n
s
.
U
s
e
t
i
n
(
S
n
)
f
o
r
s
o
l
d
e
r
i
n
g
o
r
a
d
o
p
t
o
t
h
e
r
a
p
p
r
o
p
r
i
a
t
e
s
e
a
l
i
n
g
m
e
t
h
o
d
s
.
S
o
l
i
d
w
a
s
t
e
C
a
n
n
i
n
g
m
a
t
e
r
i
a
l
s
c
r
a
p
.
W
a
s
t
e
d
r
e
s
o
u
r
c
e
.
R
e
c
y
c
l
e
m
e
t
a
l
b
a
c
k
t
o
m
e
t
a
l
p
r
o
c
e
s
s
o
r
.
I
n
j
u
r
i
e
s
O
p
e
n
m
a
c
h
i
n
e
r
y
.
L
o
s
t
p
r
o
d
u
c
t
i
v
i
t
y
,
w
o
r
k
d
a
y
s
a
n
d
i
n
c
o
m
e
.
S
a
f
e
t
y
i
n
s
t
r
u
c
t
i
o
n
s
;
s
a
f
e
t
y
c
l
o
t
h
i
n
g
w
h
e
r
e
a
p
p
r
o
p
r
i
a
t
e
(
e
.
g
.
h
a
r
d
h
a
t
s
)
;
p
r
o
t
e
c
t
i
v
e
g
u
a
r
d
s
o
n
a
l
l
m
a
c
h
i
n
e
r
y
.
R
e
s
i
d
u
a
l
I
m
p
a
c
t
A
s
s
u
m
i
n
g
F
u
l
l
M
i
t
i
g
a
t
i
o
n
:
N
O
N
E
R
i
s
k
:
L
O
W
Page  74
K
y
r
g
y
z
R
e
p
u
b
l
i
c
A
B
M
P
r
o
j
e
c
t
E
n
v
i
r
o
n
m
e
n
t
a
l
I
m
p
a
c
t
A
s
s
e
s
s
m
e
n
t
A
p
r
i
l
2
0
0
4
6
2
T
a
b
l
e
B
5
T
a
n
n
i
n
g
O
v
e
r
a
l
l
P
o
t
e
n
t
i
a
l
I
m
p
a
c
t
:
H
I
G
H
(
p
r
i
m
a
r
i
l
y
d
u
e
t
o
t
o
x
i
c
c
h
e
m
i
c
a
l
s
i
n
e
f
f
l
u
e
n
t
d
i
s
c
h
a
r
g
e
)
P
o
t
e
n
t
i
a
l
I
m
p
a
c
t
s
C
a
u
s
e
s
C
o
n
s
e
q
u
e
n
c
e
s
M
i
t
i
g
a
t
i
o
n
R
e
q
u
i
r
e
d
R
e
m
a
r
k
s
M
o
d
i
f
i
c
a
t
i
o
n
o
f
a
q
u
a
t
i
c
h
a
b
i
t
a
t
s
A
v
a
r
i
e
t
y
o
f
c
h
e
m
i
c
a
l
s
i
s
u
s
e
d
i
n
t
h
e
t
a
n
n
i
n
g
i
n
d
u
s
t
r
y
i
n
c
l
u
d
i
n
g
C
r
,
N
H
4
,
T
i
,
N
a
2
S
i
F
6
,
N
a
2
S
,
C
a
O
,
N
a
3
O
H
4
,
N
a
2
S
O
4
,
(
C
H
2
)
6
N
4
,
A
l
N
H
4
(
S
O
)
2
.
T
h
e
s
e
c
h
e
m
i
c
a
l
s
c
a
n
b
e
f
o
u
n
d
i
n
w
a
s
t
e
e
f
f
l
u
e
n
t
o
r
t
h
e
y
c
a
n
r
e
a
c
h
t
h
e
e
f
f
l
u
e
n
t
d
i
s
c
h
a
r
g
e
a
s
a
r
e
s
u
l
t
o
f
s
p
i
l
l
a
g
e
.
A
s
w
e
l
l
t
h
e
r
e
i
s
w
a
s
t
e
i
n
c
l
u
d
i
n
g
l
e
a
t
h
e
r
a
n
d
h
a
i
r
f
r
o
m
t
h
e
h
i
d
e
s
t
h
a
t
c
a
n
f
i
n
d
i
t
s
w
a
y
i
n
t
o
t
h
e
a
q
u
a
t
i
c
h
a
b
i
t
a
t
.
R
e
c
e
i
v
i
n
g
w
a
t
e
r
b
o
d
i
e
s
b
e
c
o
m
e
h
i
g
h
l
y
p
o
l
l
u
t
e
d
a
n
d
t
o
x
i
c
,
r
e
n
d
e
r
i
n
g
t
h
e
m
u
n
f
i
t
f
o
r
o
t
h
e
r
u
s
e
s
a
n
d
d
e
s
t
r
o
y
i
n
g
e
x
i
s
t
i
n
g
f
a
u
n
a
a
n
d
f
l
o
r
a
;
l
o
s
s
o
f
b
i
o
d
i
v
e
r
s
i
t
y
.
O
r
g
a
n
i
c
w
a
s
t
e
s
c
a
n
d
e
p
l
e
t
e
o
x
y
g
e
n
l
e
v
e
l
s
s
u
r
f
a
c
e
w
a
t
e
r
s
,
r
e
s
u
l
t
i
n
g
i
n
d
a
m
a
g
e
d
h
a
b
i
t
a
t
a
n
d
a
q
u
a
t
i
c
c
o
m
m
u
n
i
t
i
e
s
.
C
o
n
t
a
i
n
m
e
n
t
a
n
d
t
r
e
a
t
m
e
n
t
f
a
c
i
l
i
t
i
e
s
t
o
e
n
s
u
r
e
t
h
a
t
e
f
f
l
u
e
n
t
d
i
s
c
h
a
r
g
e
s
a
r
e
w
i
t
h
i
n
t
h
e
r
e
g
u
l
a
t
e
d
l
i
m
i
t
s
.
C
h
e
m
i
c
a
l
s
s
h
o
u
l
d
b
e
s
t
o
r
e
d
a
n
d
h
a
n
d
l
e
d
i
n
s
u
c
h
a
m
a
n
n
e
r
a
s
t
o
p
r
e
v
e
n
t
s
p
i
l
l
a
g
e
.
O
n
e
t
a
n
n
e
r
y
i
n
B
i
s
h
k
e
k
d
o
e
s
n
o
t
u
s
e
t
h
e
C
r
p
r
o
c
e
s
s
b
e
c
a
u
s
e
i
t
d
o
e
s
n
o
t
h
a
v
e
t
h
e
f
a
c
i
l
i
t
y
f
o
r
t
r
e
a
t
i
n
g
t
h
e
c
h
e
m
i
c
a
l
a
f
t
e
r
i
t
h
a
s
b
e
e
n
u
s
e
d
.
C
h
r
i
s
t
i
a
n
1
5
s
u
g
g
e
s
t
s
s
e
p
a
r
a
t
i
n
g
e
f
f
l
u
e
n
t
s
i
n
t
o
f
o
u
r
w
a
s
t
e
w
a
t
e
r
s
t
r
e
a
m
s
:
l
o
w
p
o
l
l
u
t
e
d
,
h
i
g
h
p
o
l
l
u
t
e
d
,
c
h
r
o
m
i
u
m
b
e
a
r
i
n
g
a
n
d
s
u
l
p
h
i
d
e
b
e
a
r
i
n
g
w
a
s
t
e
w
a
t
e
r
s
.
S
o
l
i
d
w
a
s
t
e
s
1
6
m
i
g
h
t
b
e
s
e
p
a
r
a
t
e
d
i
n
t
o
t
h
r
e
e
f
r
a
c
t
i
o
n
s
:
s
p
e
n
t
s
a
l
t
,
n
o
n
-
c
h
r
o
m
i
u
m
c
o
n
t
a
i
n
i
n
g
s
o
l
i
d
s
,
a
n
d
c
h
r
o
m
i
u
m
s
o
l
i
d
w
a
s
t
e
s
.
A
e
r
o
b
i
c
b
i
o
l
o
g
i
c
a
l
t
r
e
a
t
m
e
n
t
(
c
o
m
p
o
s
t
i
n
g
)
i
s
s
u
g
g
e
s
t
e
d
a
s
p
r
o
p
e
r
t
e
c
h
n
o
l
o
g
y
f
o
r
t
h
e
n
o
n
-
c
h
r
o
m
i
u
m
c
o
n
t
a
i
n
i
n
g
s
o
l
i
d
w
a
s
t
e
s
i
n
c
e
t
h
i
s
c
a
n
r
e
p
r
e
s
e
n
t
u
p
t
o
8
0
%
o
f
a
l
l
o
f
t
h
e
s
o
l
i
d
w
a
s
t
e
g
e
n
e
r
a
t
e
d
a
t
a
t
a
n
n
e
r
y
1
7
.
1
7
C
h
r
i
s
t
i
a
n
,
K
.
2
0
0
1
.
Page  75
K
y
r
g
y
z
R
e
p
u
b
l
i
c
A
B
M
P
r
o
j
e
c
t
E
n
v
i
r
o
n
m
e
n
t
a
l
I
m
p
a
c
t
A
s
s
e
s
s
m
e
n
t
A
p
r
i
l
2
0
0
4
6
3
H
i
g
h
e
n
e
r
g
y
c
o
n
s
u
m
p
t
i
o
n
A
g
i
n
g
h
i
g
h
p
r
o
d
u
c
t
i
o
n
t
a
n
n
e
r
i
e
s
u
s
e
l
a
r
g
e
a
m
o
u
n
t
o
f
e
n
e
r
g
y
,
p
a
r
t
i
c
u
l
a
r
l
y
i
n
w
i
n
t
e
r
.
D
e
p
e
n
d
i
n
g
o
n
s
o
u
r
c
e
o
f
e
n
e
r
g
y
,
c
o
u
l
d
c
o
n
t
r
i
b
u
t
e
t
o
g
r
e
e
n
h
o
u
s
e
e
f
f
e
c
t
(
i
f
f
o
s
s
i
l
f
u
e
l
d
e
r
i
v
e
d
)
o
r
i
f
h
y
d
r
o
d
e
r
i
v
e
d
,
c
o
u
l
d
r
e
s
u
l
t
i
n
p
u
s
h
i
n
g
h
i
g
h
d
e
m
a
n
d
o
n
l
i
m
i
t
e
d
s
u
p
p
l
y
t
h
a
t
w
o
u
l
d
r
e
s
u
l
t
i
n
a
d
d
i
t
i
o
n
a
l
e
n
e
r
g
y
s
o
u
r
c
e
s
t
o
b
e
f
o
u
n
d
.
F
o
r
n
e
w
t
a
n
n
e
r
i
e
s
b
u
i
l
d
i
n
g
d
e
s
i
g
n
a
n
d
c
o
n
s
t
r
u
c
t
i
o
n
s
h
o
u
l
d
b
e
c
o
m
p
a
c
t
a
n
d
e
n
e
r
g
y
e
f
f
i
c
i
e
n
t
.
T
h
e
l
a
r
g
e
B
i
s
h
k
e
k
t
a
n
n
e
r
y
h
a
s
t
o
c
l
o
s
e
d
u
r
i
n
g
t
h
e
c
o
l
d
e
s
t
m
o
n
t
h
s
d
u
e
t
o
h
i
g
h
c
o
s
t
o
f
h
e
a
t
i
n
g
.
I
n
j
u
r
i
e
s
T
a
n
n
e
r
i
e
s
u
s
e
h
e
a
v
y
m
a
c
h
i
n
e
r
y
,
w
h
i
c
h
,
i
f
n
o
t
f
i
t
t
e
d
w
i
t
h
p
r
o
t
e
c
t
i
v
e
s
h
i
e
l
d
s
,
c
a
n
c
a
u
s
e
i
n
j
u
r
y
.
L
o
s
t
p
r
o
d
u
c
t
i
v
i
t
y
,
w
o
r
k
d
a
y
s
a
n
d
i
n
c
o
m
e
.
S
a
f
e
t
y
i
n
s
t
r
u
c
t
i
o
n
s
;
s
a
f
e
t
y
c
l
o
t
h
i
n
g
w
h
e
r
e
a
p
p
r
o
p
r
i
a
t
e
(
e
.
g
.
h
a
r
d
h
a
t
s
)
;
p
r
o
t
e
c
t
i
v
e
g
u
a
r
d
s
o
n
a
l
l
m
a
c
h
i
n
e
r
y
.
I
l
l
n
e
s
s
A
n
u
m
b
e
r
o
f
c
h
e
m
i
c
a
l
s
h
a
v
e
t
o
b
e
h
a
n
d
l
e
d
i
n
t
h
e
t
a
n
n
i
n
g
p
r
o
c
e
s
s
.
S
o
m
e
o
f
t
h
e
s
e
c
a
n
b
e
d
a
n
g
e
r
o
u
s
t
o
t
h
e
h
e
a
l
t
h
o
f
w
o
r
k
e
r
s
i
f
n
o
t
p
r
o
p
e
r
l
y
s
t
o
r
e
d
a
n
d
h
a
n
d
l
e
d
.
L
o
s
t
p
r
o
d
u
c
t
i
v
i
t
y
,
w
o
r
k
d
a
y
s
a
n
d
i
n
c
o
m
e
.
L
o
n
g
t
e
r
m
i
l
l
n
e
s
s
.
E
f
f
e
c
t
i
v
e
t
r
a
i
n
i
n
g
i
n
t
h
e
h
a
n
d
l
i
n
g
o
f
c
h
e
m
i
c
a
l
s
;
p
r
o
t
e
c
t
i
v
e
c
l
o
t
h
i
n
g
(
e
.
g
.
r
e
s
p
i
r
a
t
o
r
s
,
g
l
o
v
e
s
o
f
i
n
e
r
t
m
a
t
e
r
i
a
l
)
;
p
r
o
p
e
r
s
t
o
r
a
g
e
f
o
r
h
i
g
h
l
y
v
o
l
a
t
i
l
e
c
o
m
p
o
u
n
d
s
.
S
o
l
i
d
w
a
s
t
e
a
n
d
c
o
n
t
a
m
i
n
a
t
i
o
n
o
f
g
r
o
u
n
d
w
a
t
e
r
a
n
d
s
u
r
f
a
c
e
w
a
t
e
r
.
H
a
i
r
a
n
d
s
m
a
l
l
q
u
a
n
t
i
t
i
e
s
o
f
s
k
i
n
a
n
d
l
e
a
t
h
e
r
w
a
s
t
e
d
u
r
i
n
g
t
h
e
t
a
n
n
i
n
g
p
r
o
c
e
s
s
.
S
m
a
l
l
q
u
a
n
t
i
t
i
e
s
o
f
l
e
a
t
h
e
r
d
o
n
o
t
p
r
e
s
e
n
t
a
p
r
o
b
l
e
m
.
H
a
i
r
o
f
h
i
d
e
s
o
f
t
e
n
c
o
n
t
a
i
n
s
p
a
r
a
s
i
t
e
s
a
n
d
d
i
s
e
a
s
e
.
U
n
k
n
o
w
n
a
s
t
o
w
h
e
t
h
e
r
o
r
n
o
t
t
h
e
s
e
c
o
u
l
d
f
i
n
d
t
h
e
i
r
w
a
y
i
n
t
o
g
r
o
u
n
d
w
a
t
e
r
a
n
d
s
u
r
f
a
c
e
w
a
t
e
r
a
n
d
p
o
s
e
a
t
h
r
e
a
t
t
o
h
e
a
l
t
h
.
M
i
n
i
m
i
z
e
a
m
o
u
n
t
o
f
w
a
s
t
e
;
t
r
e
a
t
h
i
d
e
s
b
e
f
o
r
e
r
e
m
o
v
a
l
o
f
h
a
i
r
(
o
r
t
r
e
a
t
h
a
i
r
a
f
t
e
r
r
e
m
o
v
a
l
)
.
S
e
e
r
e
m
a
r
k
s
f
o
r
m
o
d
i
f
i
c
a
t
i
o
n
o
f
a
q
u
a
t
i
c
h
a
b
i
t
a
t
s
,
a
b
o
v
e
.
H
i
g
h
w
a
t
e
r
c
o
n
s
u
m
p
t
i
o
n
L
a
r
g
e
t
a
n
n
e
r
y
u
s
e
s
l
a
r
g
e
a
m
o
u
n
t
s
o
f
w
a
t
e
r
.
D
r
a
w
d
o
w
n
o
f
w
a
t
e
r
t
a
b
l
e
w
h
i
c
h
c
o
u
l
d
a
f
f
e
c
t
o
t
h
e
r
u
s
e
r
s
.
E
n
s
u
r
e
p
r
o
p
e
r
w
a
t
e
r
a
p
p
o
r
t
i
o
n
m
e
n
t
w
i
t
h
o
t
h
e
r
c
o
m
p
e
t
i
n
g
u
s
e
r
s
;
e
f
f
i
c
i
e
n
t
w
a
t
e
r
u
s
e
a
n
d
r
e
c
y
c
l
i
n
g
.
O
n
e
t
a
n
n
e
r
y
i
n
B
i
s
h
k
e
k
u
s
e
s
a
p
p
r
o
x
i
m
a
t
e
l
y
1
0
,
0
0
0
m
3
o
f
w
a
t
e
r
m
o
n
t
h
l
y
.
R
e
s
i
d
u
a
l
I
m
p
a
c
t
A
s
s
u
m
i
n
g
F
u
l
l
M
i
t
i
g
a
t
i
o
n
:
L
O
W
-
M
O
D
E
R
A
T
E
R
i
s
k
:
M
O
D
E
R
A
T
E
-
H
I
G
H
Page  76
K
y
r
g
y
z
R
e
p
u
b
l
i
c
A
B
M
P
r
o
j
e
c
t
E
n
v
i
r
o
n
m
e
n
t
a
l
I
m
p
a
c
t
A
s
s
e
s
s
m
e
n
t
A
p
r
i
l
2
0
0
4
6
4
T
a
b
l
e
B
6
D
a
i
r
y
P
r
o
c
e
s
s
i
n
g
O
v
e
r
a
l
l
P
o
t
e
n
t
i
a
l
I
m
p
a
c
t
:
H
I
G
H
(
p
r
i
m
a
r
i
l
y
d
u
e
t
o
h
u
m
a
n
h
e
a
l
t
h
t
h
r
e
a
t
)
P
o
t
e
n
t
i
a
l
I
m
p
a
c
t
s
C
a
u
s
e
s
C
o
n
s
e
q
u
e
n
c
e
s
M
i
t
i
g
a
t
i
o
n
R
e
q
u
i
r
e
d
R
e
m
a
r
k
s
S
u
r
f
a
c
e
w
a
t
e
r
c
o
n
t
a
m
i
n
a
t
i
o
n
E
f
f
l
u
e
n
t
d
i
s
c
h
a
r
g
e
c
o
n
t
a
i
n
i
n
g
w
h
e
y
(
w
a
s
t
e
f
r
o
m
c
h
e
e
s
e
m
a
k
i
n
g
)
;
d
i
s
c
h
a
r
g
e
o
f
a
c
i
d
f
r
o
m
m
i
l
k
p
r
o
c
e
s
s
i
n
g
a
s
a
r
e
s
u
l
t
o
f
c
l
e
a
n
i
n
g
o
f
e
q
u
i
p
m
e
n
t
.
W
a
t
e
r
w
a
y
s
b
e
c
o
m
e
o
p
a
q
u
e
a
n
d
d
i
s
p
l
a
y
h
i
g
h
p
r
o
t
e
i
n
l
e
v
e
l
s
r
e
s
u
l
t
i
n
g
i
n
d
a
m
a
g
e
d
o
r
d
e
s
t
r
o
y
e
d
a
q
u
a
t
i
c
e
c
o
s
y
s
t
e
m
.
E
f
f
e
c
t
i
v
e
c
o
l
l
e
c
t
i
o
n
a
n
d
t
r
e
a
t
m
e
n
t
o
f
w
h
e
y
b
e
f
o
r
e
d
i
s
c
h
a
r
g
e
;
m
a
k
e
a
v
a
i
l
a
b
l
e
a
l
l
w
h
e
y
t
o
f
a
r
m
e
r
s
f
o
r
f
e
e
d
s
t
o
c
k
.
O
z
o
n
e
d
e
p
l
e
t
i
o
n
R
e
f
r
i
g
e
r
a
t
i
o
n
a
n
d
f
r
e
e
z
i
n
g
u
n
i
t
s
u
t
i
l
i
z
i
n
g
F
r
e
o
n
o
r
a
m
m
o
n
i
a
.
I
n
c
r
e
a
s
e
i
n
U
V
r
a
y
s
r
e
s
u
l
t
i
n
g
i
n
s
k
i
n
c
a
n
c
e
r
i
f
p
r
o
p
e
r
p
r
o
t
e
c
t
i
o
n
i
s
n
o
t
t
a
k
e
n
;
c
a
n
a
l
s
o
a
f
f
e
c
t
p
l
a
n
t
h
e
a
l
t
h
.
C
o
n
v
e
r
t
r
e
f
r
i
g
e
r
a
n
t
s
f
r
o
m
o
z
o
n
e
d
e
p
l
e
t
i
n
g
s
u
b
s
t
a
n
c
e
s
(
N
H
3
a
n
d
c
h
l
o
r
o
f
l
u
o
r
o
c
a
r
b
o
n
s
)
t
o
a
h
y
d
r
o
f
l
u
o
r
o
c
a
r
b
o
n
.
F
o
o
d
c
o
n
t
a
m
i
n
a
t
i
o
n
P
a
s
t
e
u
r
i
z
a
t
i
o
n
p
r
o
c
e
s
s
n
o
t
e
f
f
e
c
t
i
v
e
;
w
o
r
k
e
r
s
i
n
c
o
n
t
a
c
t
w
i
t
h
m
i
l
k
a
n
d
m
i
l
k
p
r
o
d
u
c
t
s
.
C
o
n
s
u
m
e
r
s
b
e
c
o
m
e
i
l
l
(
c
o
u
l
d
b
e
v
e
r
y
s
e
r
i
o
u
s
a
s
m
i
l
k
c
o
u
l
d
c
o
m
e
f
r
o
m
c
o
w
s
w
i
t
h
b
r
u
c
i
l
o
s
i
s
o
r
t
u
b
e
r
c
u
l
o
s
i
s
)
;
w
o
r
k
e
r
s
c
o
u
l
d
i
n
f
e
c
t
m
i
l
k
p
r
o
d
u
c
t
s
d
u
r
i
n
g
h
a
n
d
l
i
n
g
.
O
r
i
g
i
n
o
f
m
i
l
k
s
h
o
u
l
d
b
e
k
n
o
w
n
;
p
a
s
t
e
u
r
i
z
a
t
i
o
n
p
r
o
c
e
s
s
m
u
s
t
b
e
e
f
f
e
c
t
i
v
e
;
w
o
r
k
e
r
s
m
u
s
t
b
e
p
r
o
t
e
c
t
e
d
w
i
t
h
e
f
f
e
c
t
i
v
e
c
l
o
t
h
i
n
g
a
n
d
w
o
r
k
e
r
s
s
h
o
u
l
d
n
o
t
c
o
m
e
i
n
d
i
r
e
c
t
c
o
n
t
a
c
t
w
i
t
h
m
i
l
k
p
r
o
d
u
c
t
s
;
v
e
t
e
r
i
n
a
r
y
d
i
l
i
g
e
n
c
e
t
o
e
n
s
u
r
e
h
e
a
l
t
h
y
a
n
i
m
a
l
s
.
I
n
j
u
r
i
e
s
O
p
e
n
m
a
c
h
i
n
e
r
y
.
L
o
s
t
p
r
o
d
u
c
t
i
v
i
t
y
,
w
o
r
k
d
a
y
s
a
n
d
i
n
c
o
m
e
.
S
a
f
e
t
y
i
n
s
t
r
u
c
t
i
o
n
s
;
s
a
f
e
t
y
c
l
o
t
h
i
n
g
w
h
e
r
e
a
p
p
r
o
p
r
i
a
t
e
(
e
.
g
.
h
a
r
d
h
a
t
s
)
;
p
r
o
t
e
c
t
i
v
e
g
u
a
r
d
s
o
n
a
l
l
m
a
c
h
i
n
e
r
y
.
R
e
s
i
d
u
a
l
I
m
p
a
c
t
A
s
s
u
m
i
n
g
F
u
l
l
M
i
t
i
g
a
t
i
o
n
:
N
O
N
E
R
i
s
k
:
M
O
D
E
R
A
T
E
Page  77
K
y
r
g
y
z
R
e
p
u
b
l
i
c
A
B
M
P
r
o
j
e
c
t
E
n
v
i
r
o
n
m
e
n
t
a
l
I
m
p
a
c
t
A
s
s
e
s
s
m
e
n
t
A
p
r
i
l
2
0
0
4
6
5
T
a
b
l
e
B
7
F
r
o
z
e
n
F
o
o
d
P
r
o
d
u
c
t
i
o
n
O
v
e
r
a
l
l
P
o
t
e
n
t
i
a
l
I
m
p
a
c
t
:
M
O
D
E
R
A
T
E
(
p
r
i
m
a
r
i
l
y
d
u
e
t
o
h
u
m
a
n
h
e
a
l
t
h
t
h
r
e
a
t
)
P
o
t
e
n
t
i
a
l
I
m
p
a
c
t
s
C
a
u
s
e
s
C
o
n
s
e
q
u
e
n
c
e
s
M
i
t
i
g
a
t
i
o
n
R
e
q
u
i
r
e
d
R
e
m
a
r
k
s
O
z
o
n
e
d
e
p
l
e
t
i
o
n
R
e
f
r
i
g
e
r
a
t
i
o
n
a
n
d
f
r
e
e
z
i
n
g
u
n
i
t
s
u
t
i
l
i
z
i
n
g
F
r
e
o
n
/
o
r
a
m
m
o
n
i
a
.
I
n
c
r
e
a
s
e
i
n
U
V
r
a
y
s
r
e
s
u
l
t
i
n
g
i
n
s
k
i
n
c
a
n
c
e
r
i
f
p
r
o
p
e
r
p
r
o
t
e
c
t
i
o
n
i
s
n
o
t
t
a
k
e
n
;
c
a
n
a
l
s
o
a
f
f
e
c
t
p
l
a
n
t
h
e
a
l
t
h
.
C
o
n
v
e
r
t
r
e
f
r
i
g
e
r
a
n
t
s
f
r
o
m
o
z
o
n
e
d
e
p
l
e
t
i
n
g
s
u
b
s
t
a
n
c
e
s
(
N
H
3
a
n
d
c
h
l
o
r
o
f
l
u
o
r
o
c
a
r
b
o
n
s
)
t
o
a
h
y
d
r
o
f
l
u
o
r
o
c
a
r
b
o
n
.
F
o
o
d
c
o
n
t
a
m
i
n
a
t
i
o
n
P
o
o
r
s
a
n
i
t
a
r
y
c
o
n
d
i
t
i
o
n
s
i
n
c
l
u
d
i
n
g
l
a
c
k
o
f
p
r
o
t
e
c
t
i
v
e
c
l
o
t
h
i
n
g
a
n
d
i
n
e
f
f
e
c
t
i
v
e
m
a
i
n
t
e
n
a
n
c
e
;
c
o
n
t
a
m
i
n
a
t
e
d
r
a
w
m
a
t
e
r
i
a
l
s
.
C
o
n
s
u
m
e
r
s
b
e
c
o
m
e
i
l
l
;
l
o
s
t
w
o
r
k
d
a
y
s
;
l
o
s
t
p
r
o
d
u
c
t
i
v
i
t
y
a
n
d
i
n
c
o
m
e
;
e
n
t
e
r
p
r
i
s
e
’
s
r
e
p
u
t
a
t
i
o
n
l
e
a
d
s
t
o
l
o
s
t
b
u
s
i
n
e
s
s
.
P
r
o
v
i
s
i
o
n
o
f
p
r
o
t
e
c
t
i
v
e
c
l
o
t
h
i
n
g
;
p
r
o
p
e
r
w
a
s
h
i
n
g
u
p
w
i
t
h
d
i
s
i
n
f
e
c
t
a
n
t
s
;
e
f
f
e
c
t
i
v
e
s
a
n
i
t
a
r
y
i
n
s
p
e
c
t
i
o
n
s
l
e
a
d
i
n
g
t
o
r
e
q
u
i
r
e
d
s
t
a
n
d
a
r
d
s
b
e
i
n
g
m
e
t
;
e
f
f
e
c
t
i
v
e
i
n
s
p
e
c
t
i
o
n
o
f
r
a
w
m
a
t
e
r
i
a
l
s
.
G
o
v
e
r
n
m
e
n
t
i
n
s
p
e
c
t
i
o
n
s
c
a
n
b
e
e
r
r
a
t
i
c
a
n
d
p
e
r
h
a
p
s
n
o
t
a
l
w
a
y
s
e
f
f
e
c
t
i
v
e
l
y
c
o
n
d
u
c
t
e
d
.
I
n
j
u
r
i
e
s
O
p
e
n
m
a
c
h
i
n
e
r
y
.
L
o
s
t
p
r
o
d
u
c
t
i
v
i
t
y
,
w
o
r
k
d
a
y
s
a
n
d
i
n
c
o
m
e
.
S
a
f
e
t
y
i
n
s
t
r
u
c
t
i
o
n
s
;
s
a
f
e
t
y
c
l
o
t
h
i
n
g
w
h
e
r
e
a
p
p
r
o
p
r
i
a
t
e
(
e
.
g
.
h
a
r
d
h
a
t
s
)
;
p
r
o
t
e
c
t
i
v
e
g
u
a
r
d
s
o
n
a
l
l
m
a
c
h
i
n
e
r
y
.
R
e
s
i
d
u
a
l
I
m
p
a
c
t
A
s
s
u
m
i
n
g
F
u
l
l
M
i
t
i
g
a
t
i
o
n
:
N
O
N
E
R
i
s
k
:
M
O
D
E
R
A
T
E
Page  78
K
y
r
g
y
z
R
e
p
u
b
l
i
c
A
B
M
P
r
o
j
e
c
t
E
n
v
i
r
o
n
m
e
n
t
a
l
I
m
p
a
c
t
A
s
s
e
s
s
m
e
n
t
A
p
r
i
l
2
0
0
4
6
6
T
a
b
l
e
B
8
C
o
t
t
o
n
G
i
n
n
i
n
g
O
v
e
r
a
l
l
P
o
t
e
n
t
i
a
l
I
m
p
a
c
t
:
L
O
W
P
o
t
e
n
t
i
a
l
I
m
p
a
c
t
s
C
a
u
s
e
s
C
o
n
s
e
q
u
e
n
c
e
s
M
i
t
i
g
a
t
i
o
n
R
e
q
u
i
r
e
d
R
e
m
a
r
k
s
I
n
j
u
r
i
e
s
O
p
e
n
m
a
c
h
i
n
e
r
y
.
L
o
s
t
p
r
o
d
u
c
t
i
v
i
t
y
,
w
o
r
k
d
a
y
s
a
n
d
i
n
c
o
m
e
.
S
a
f
e
t
y
i
n
s
t
r
u
c
t
i
o
n
s
;
s
a
f
e
t
y
c
l
o
t
h
i
n
g
w
h
e
r
e
a
p
p
r
o
p
r
i
a
t
e
(
e
.
g
.
h
a
r
d
h
a
t
s
)
;
p
r
o
t
e
c
t
i
v
e
g
u
a
r
d
s
o
n
a
l
l
m
a
c
h
i
n
e
r
y
.
I
l
l
n
e
s
s
C
o
t
t
o
n
f
i
b
r
e
d
u
s
t
.
R
e
s
p
i
r
a
t
o
r
y
p
r
o
b
l
e
m
s
r
e
s
u
l
t
i
n
g
i
n
l
o
s
t
p
r
o
d
u
c
t
i
v
i
t
y
,
w
o
r
k
d
a
y
s
a
n
d
i
n
c
o
m
e
.
P
r
o
v
i
d
e
w
o
r
k
e
r
s
w
i
t
h
r
e
s
p
i
r
a
t
o
r
s
.
S
o
l
i
d
w
a
s
t
e
S
h
o
r
t
f
i
b
r
e
s
(
m
o
t
e
s
)
t
h
a
t
a
r
e
n
o
t
u
s
e
f
u
l
f
o
r
s
p
i
n
n
i
n
g
.
W
a
s
t
e
d
i
s
p
o
s
a
l
r
e
q
u
i
r
e
d
.
U
s
e
a
s
c
a
t
t
l
e
f
e
e
d
.
R
e
s
i
d
u
a
l
I
m
p
a
c
t
A
s
s
u
m
i
n
g
F
u
l
l
M
i
t
i
g
a
t
i
o
n
:
N
O
N
E
R
i
s
k
:
L
O
W
Page  79
K
y
r
g
y
z
R
e
p
u
b
l
i
c
A
B
M
P
r
o
j
e
c
t
E
n
v
i
r
o
n
m
e
n
t
a
l
I
m
p
a
c
t
A
s
s
e
s
s
m
e
n
t
A
p
r
i
l
2
0
0
4
6
7
T
a
b
l
e
B
9
O
i
l
P
r
o
c
e
s
s
i
n
g
(
i
n
c
l
u
d
i
n
g
m
a
i
z
e
)
O
v
e
r
a
l
l
P
o
t
e
n
t
i
a
l
I
m
p
a
c
t
:
L
O
W
P
o
t
e
n
t
i
a
l
I
m
p
a
c
t
s
C
a
u
s
e
s
C
o
n
s
e
q
u
e
n
c
e
s
M
i
t
i
g
a
t
i
o
n
R
e
q
u
i
r
e
d
R
e
m
a
r
k
s
P
o
l
l
u
t
e
d
s
u
r
f
a
c
e
w
a
t
e
r
B
i
o
m
a
s
s
w
a
s
t
e
a
l
l
o
w
e
d
t
o
m
i
g
r
a
t
e
t
o
s
u
r
f
a
c
e
w
a
t
e
r
s
.
D
e
g
r
a
d
e
d
a
q
u
a
t
i
c
e
c
o
s
y
s
t
e
m
.
E
f
f
e
c
t
i
v
e
d
i
s
p
o
s
a
l
o
f
b
i
o
m
a
s
s
w
a
s
t
e
(
c
o
m
p
o
s
t
i
n
g
o
r
u
s
e
a
s
a
n
i
m
a
l
f
e
e
d
)
.
S
o
l
i
d
w
a
s
t
e
B
i
o
m
a
s
s
w
a
s
t
e
.
C
o
m
p
o
s
t
o
r
u
s
e
a
s
a
n
i
m
a
l
f
e
e
d
.
I
l
l
n
e
s
s
C
o
l
d
p
r
e
s
s
e
d
o
i
l
c
o
n
t
a
i
n
s
h
i
g
h
a
m
o
u
n
t
s
o
f
f
a
t
t
y
a
c
i
d
s
a
n
d
p
e
s
t
i
c
i
d
e
r
e
s
i
d
u
e
s
.
S
e
r
i
o
u
s
i
l
l
n
e
s
s
r
e
s
u
l
t
i
n
g
i
n
l
o
s
t
p
r
o
d
u
c
t
i
v
i
t
y
,
w
o
r
k
d
a
y
s
a
n
d
i
n
c
o
m
e
.
U
s
e
a
l
t
e
r
n
a
t
i
v
e
p
r
e
s
s
i
n
g
p
r
o
c
e
s
s
.
I
n
j
u
r
i
e
s
O
p
e
n
m
a
c
h
i
n
e
r
y
.
L
o
s
t
p
r
o
d
u
c
t
i
v
i
t
y
,
w
o
r
k
d
a
y
s
a
n
d
i
n
c
o
m
e
.
S
a
f
e
t
y
i
n
s
t
r
u
c
t
i
o
n
s
;
s
a
f
e
t
y
c
l
o
t
h
i
n
g
w
h
e
r
e
a
p
p
r
o
p
r
i
a
t
e
(
e
.
g
.
h
a
r
d
h
a
t
s
)
;
p
r
o
t
e
c
t
i
v
e
g
u
a
r
d
s
o
n
a
l
l
m
a
c
h
i
n
e
r
y
.
R
e
s
i
d
u
a
l
I
m
p
a
c
t
A
s
s
u
m
i
n
g
F
u
l
l
M
i
t
i
g
a
t
i
o
n
:
N
O
N
E
R
i
s
k
:
M
O
D
E
R
A
T
E
Page  80
K
y
r
g
y
z
R
e
p
u
b
l
i
c
A
B
M
P
r
o
j
e
c
t
E
n
v
i
r
o
n
m
e
n
t
a
l
I
m
p
a
c
t
A
s
s
e
s
s
m
e
n
t
A
p
r
i
l
2
0
0
4
6
8
T
a
b
l
e
B
1
0
F
l
o
u
r
M
i
l
l
i
n
g
O
v
e
r
a
l
l
P
o
t
e
n
t
i
a
l
I
m
p
a
c
t
:
L
O
W
P
o
t
e
n
t
i
a
l
I
m
p
a
c
t
s
C
a
u
s
e
s
C
o
n
s
e
q
u
e
n
c
e
s
M
i
t
i
g
a
t
i
o
n
R
e
q
u
i
r
e
d
R
e
m
a
r
k
s
S
o
l
i
d
w
a
s
t
e
W
h
e
a
t
h
u
s
k
s
l
e
f
t
f
r
o
m
m
i
l
l
i
n
g
d
u
m
p
e
d
a
t
m
u
n
i
c
i
p
a
l
d
i
s
p
o
s
a
l
s
i
t
e
.
W
a
s
t
e
d
r
e
s
o
u
r
c
e
s
.
R
e
c
o
v
e
r
b
r
a
n
;
u
s
e
f
o
r
a
n
i
m
a
l
f
e
e
d
.
I
n
j
u
r
i
e
s
O
p
e
n
m
a
c
h
i
n
e
r
y
.
L
o
s
t
p
r
o
d
u
c
t
i
v
i
t
y
,
w
o
r
k
d
a
y
s
a
n
d
i
n
c
o
m
e
.
S
a
f
e
t
y
i
n
s
t
r
u
c
t
i
o
n
s
;
s
a
f
e
t
y
c
l
o
t
h
i
n
g
w
h
e
r
e
a
p
p
r
o
p
r
i
a
t
e
(
e
.
g
.
h
a
r
d
h
a
t
s
)
;
p
r
o
t
e
c
t
i
v
e
g
u
a
r
d
s
o
n
a
l
l
m
a
c
h
i
n
e
r
y
.
I
l
l
n
e
s
s
F
l
o
u
r
d
u
s
t
.
R
e
s
p
i
r
a
t
o
r
y
i
r
r
i
t
a
t
i
o
n
.
P
r
o
v
i
d
e
m
a
s
k
s
t
o
w
o
r
k
e
r
s
.
R
e
s
i
d
u
a
l
I
m
p
a
c
t
A
s
s
u
m
i
n
g
F
u
l
l
M
i
t
i
g
a
t
i
o
n
:
N
O
N
E
R
i
s
k
:
L
O
W
T
a
b
l
e
B
1
1
S
t
o
r
a
g
e
(
w
a
r
e
h
o
u
s
i
n
g
)
O
v
e
r
a
l
l
P
o
t
e
n
t
i
a
l
I
m
p
a
c
t
:
L
O
W
P
o
t
e
n
t
i
a
l
I
m
p
a
c
t
s
C
a
u
s
e
s
C
o
n
s
e
q
u
e
n
c
e
s
M
i
t
i
g
a
t
i
o
n
R
e
q
u
i
r
e
d
R
e
m
a
r
k
s
O
n
l
y
t
h
o
s
e
d
u
r
i
n
g
s
i
t
i
n
g
,
c
o
n
s
t
r
u
c
t
i
o
n
a
n
d
d
e
c
o
m
m
i
s
s
i
o
n
i
n
g
p
h
a
s
e
s
.
R
e
s
i
d
u
a
l
I
m
p
a
c
t
A
s
s
u
m
i
n
g
F
u
l
l
M
i
t
i
g
a
t
i
o
n
:
N
O
N
E
R
i
s
k
:
L
O
W
Page  81
K
y
r
g
y
z
R
e
p
u
b
l
i
c
A
B
M
P
r
o
j
e
c
t
E
n
v
i
r
o
n
m
e
n
t
a
l
I
m
p
a
c
t
A
s
s
e
s
s
m
e
n
t
A
p
r
i
l
2
0
0
4
6
9
T
a
b
l
e
B
1
2
M
a
r
k
e
t
s
O
v
e
r
a
l
l
P
o
t
e
n
t
i
a
l
I
m
p
a
c
t
:
M
O
D
E
R
A
T
E
P
o
t
e
n
t
i
a
l
I
m
p
a
c
t
s
C
a
u
s
e
s
C
o
n
s
e
q
u
e
n
c
e
s
M
i
t
i
g
a
t
i
o
n
R
e
q
u
i
r
e
d
R
e
m
a
r
k
s
I
l
l
n
e
s
s
V
e
r
m
i
n
(
r
a
t
s
)
.
U
n
r
e
f
r
i
g
e
r
a
t
e
d
m
e
a
t
a
n
d
d
a
i
r
y
p
r
o
d
u
c
t
s
.
S
p
r
e
a
d
i
n
g
o
f
d
i
s
e
a
s
e
r
e
s
u
l
t
i
n
g
i
n
l
o
s
t
w
o
r
k
d
a
y
s
,
s
a
l
e
s
a
n
d
i
n
c
o
m
e
.
L
o
s
t
w
o
r
k
d
a
y
s
a
n
d
i
n
c
o
m
e
.
R
e
g
u
l
a
r
i
n
s
p
e
c
t
i
o
n
o
f
m
a
r
k
e
t
s
a
n
d
e
x
t
e
r
m
i
n
a
t
i
o
n
o
f
v
e
r
m
i
n
;
m
a
i
n
t
e
n
a
n
c
e
o
f
h
i
g
h
s
a
n
i
t
a
r
y
s
t
a
n
d
a
r
d
s
.
R
e
f
r
i
g
e
r
a
t
i
o
n
o
f
m
e
a
t
a
n
d
d
a
i
r
y
p
r
o
d
u
c
t
s
.
M
a
r
k
e
t
s
t
a
l
l
k
e
e
p
e
r
s
i
n
B
i
s
h
k
e
k
m
e
n
t
i
o
n
p
r
e
s
e
n
c
e
o
f
r
a
t
s
d
u
e
t
o
u
n
s
a
n
i
t
a
r
y
c
o
n
d
i
t
i
o
n
s
.
O
z
o
n
e
d
e
p
l
e
t
i
o
n
R
e
f
r
i
g
e
r
a
t
i
o
n
a
n
d
f
r
e
e
z
i
n
g
u
n
i
t
s
u
t
i
l
i
z
i
n
g
F
r
e
o
n
/
o
r
a
m
m
o
n
i
a
.
I
n
c
r
e
a
s
e
i
n
U
V
r
a
y
s
r
e
s
u
l
t
i
n
g
i
n
s
k
i
n
c
a
n
c
e
r
i
f
p
r
o
p
e
r
p
r
o
t
e
c
t
i
o
n
i
s
n
o
t
t
a
k
e
n
;
c
a
n
a
l
s
o
a
f
f
e
c
t
p
l
a
n
t
h
e
a
l
t
h
.
C
o
n
v
e
r
t
r
e
f
r
i
g
e
r
a
n
t
s
f
r
o
m
o
z
o
n
e
d
e
p
l
e
t
i
n
g
s
u
b
s
t
a
n
c
e
s
(
N
H
3
a
n
d
c
h
l
o
r
o
f
l
u
o
r
o
c
a
r
b
o
n
s
)
t
o
a
h
y
d
r
o
f
l
u
o
r
o
c
a
r
b
o
n
.
R
e
s
i
d
u
a
l
I
m
p
a
c
t
A
s
s
u
m
i
n
g
F
u
l
l
M
i
t
i
g
a
t
i
o
n
:
N
O
N
E
R
i
s
k
:
L
O
W
-
M
O
D
E
R
A
T
E
Page  82
Kyrgyz Republic ABM Project                       Environmental Impact Assessment                          
A
pril 2004
70
 
Annex C 
 
Impacts, Causes, Consequences and Mitigation 
Page  83
Kyrgyz Republic ABM Project                       Environmental Impact Assessment                          
A
pril 2004
71
F
or 
Agriculture 
Page  84
K
y
r
g
y
z
R
e
p
u
b
l
i
c
A
B
M
P
r
o
j
e
c
t
E
n
v
i
r
o
n
m
e
n
t
a
l
I
m
p
a
c
t
A
s
s
e
s
s
m
e
n
t
D
R
A
F
T
F
e
b
r
u
a
r
y
2
0
0
4
7
2
T
a
b
l
e
C
1
S
e
e
d
O
v
e
r
a
l
l
P
o
t
e
n
t
i
a
l
I
m
p
a
c
t
:
M
O
D
E
R
A
T
E
P
o
t
e
n
t
i
a
l
D
i
r
e
c
t
I
m
p
a
c
t
s
C
a
u
s
e
s
C
o
n
s
e
q
u
e
n
c
e
s
M
i
t
i
g
a
t
i
o
n
R
e
q
u
i
r
e
d
R
e
m
a
r
k
s
P
o
s
i
t
i
v
e
i
m
p
a
c
t
;
i
n
c
r
e
a
s
e
d
y
i
e
l
d
s
a
n
d
f
o
o
d
s
e
c
u
r
i
t
y
f
o
r
t
h
e
s
m
a
l
l
h
o
l
d
e
r
f
a
r
m
e
r
.
R
i
s
k
o
f
i
n
t
r
o
d
u
c
t
i
o
n
o
f
g
e
n
e
t
i
c
a
l
l
y
m
o
d
i
f
i
e
d
p
l
a
n
t
s
e
e
d
(
s
e
e
b
e
l
o
w
f
o
r
p
e
d
i
g
r
e
e
s
e
e
d
)
U
s
e
o
f
c
h
e
m
i
c
a
l
f
e
r
t
i
l
i
z
e
r
s
,
a
n
d
p
e
s
t
i
c
i
d
e
s
.
S
a
m
e
c
o
n
s
e
q
u
e
n
c
e
s
a
s
d
e
s
c
r
i
b
e
d
f
o
r
c
h
e
m
i
c
a
l
f
e
r
t
i
l
i
z
e
r
s
a
n
d
p
e
s
t
i
c
i
d
e
s
(
s
e
e
t
a
b
l
e
s
C
-
3
a
n
d
4
)
d
e
t
e
r
m
i
n
a
t
i
o
n
a
n
d
a
p
p
l
i
c
a
t
i
o
n
o
f
o
p
t
i
m
u
m
q
u
a
n
t
i
t
i
e
s
a
n
d
s
c
h
e
d
u
l
i
n
g
f
o
r
f
e
r
t
i
l
i
z
e
r
s
a
n
d
o
t
h
e
r
i
n
p
u
t
s
;
u
s
e
o
f
o
n
l
y
t
h
o
s
e
p
e
s
t
i
c
i
d
e
s
a
p
p
r
o
v
e
d
b
y
U
N
a
g
e
n
c
i
e
s
;
i
n
t
r
o
d
u
c
t
i
o
n
o
f
a
n
i
n
t
e
g
r
a
t
e
d
p
e
s
t
m
a
n
a
g
e
m
e
n
t
p
r
o
g
r
a
m
(
I
P
M
)
.
M
A
W
R
P
I
e
x
t
e
n
s
i
o
n
s
e
r
v
i
c
e
s
s
h
o
u
l
d
w
o
r
k
w
i
t
h
f
a
r
m
e
r
s
t
o
p
r
o
v
i
d
e
i
n
p
u
t
m
a
n
a
g
e
m
e
n
t
a
d
v
i
c
e
.
M
A
W
R
P
I
s
h
o
u
l
d
e
n
s
u
r
e
c
o
o
r
d
i
n
a
t
i
o
n
w
i
t
h
M
E
E
S
.
O
n
t
h
e
m
a
t
t
e
r
o
f
G
M
O
s
,
t
h
e
r
e
a
r
e
p
o
s
i
t
i
v
e
a
n
d
n
e
g
a
t
i
v
e
e
f
f
e
c
t
s
o
f
t
h
e
u
s
e
o
f
t
h
e
s
e
a
n
d
b
o
t
h
s
h
o
u
l
d
b
e
c
o
n
s
i
d
e
r
e
d
.
R
e
s
i
d
u
a
l
I
m
p
a
c
t
A
s
s
u
m
i
n
g
F
u
l
l
M
i
t
i
g
a
t
i
o
n
:
L
O
W
–
M
O
D
E
R
A
T
E
R
i
s
k
:
L
O
W
Page  85
K
y
r
g
y
z
R
e
p
u
b
l
i
c
A
B
M
P
r
o
j
e
c
t
E
n
v
i
r
o
n
m
e
n
t
a
l
I
m
p
a
c
t
A
s
s
e
s
s
m
e
n
t
D
R
A
F
T
F
e
b
r
u
a
r
y
2
0
0
4
7
3
T
a
b
l
e
C
2
P
e
d
i
g
r
e
e
s
e
e
d
O
v
e
r
a
l
l
P
o
t
e
n
t
i
a
l
I
m
p
a
c
t
:
M
O
D
E
R
A
T
E
–
H
I
G
H
P
o
t
e
n
t
i
a
l
I
m
p
a
c
t
s
C
a
u
s
e
s
C
o
n
s
e
q
u
e
n
c
e
s
M
i
t
i
g
a
t
i
o
n
R
e
q
u
i
r
e
d
R
e
m
a
r
k
s
P
o
s
i
t
i
v
e
i
m
p
a
c
t
t
h
r
o
u
g
h
i
n
c
r
e
a
s
e
d
y
i
e
l
d
s
a
n
d
i
m
p
r
o
v
e
d
f
a
r
m
e
c
o
n
o
m
y
.
.
R
i
s
k
o
f
i
n
t
r
o
d
u
c
t
i
o
n
o
f
g
e
n
e
t
i
c
a
l
l
y
m
o
d
i
f
i
e
d
o
r
g
a
n
i
s
m
s
l
e
a
d
i
n
g
t
o
i
n
p
u
t
s
o
f
p
e
s
t
i
c
i
d
e
s
G
e
n
e
t
i
c
d
r
i
f
t
i
n
t
o
o
t
h
e
r
a
r
e
a
s
w
h
e
r
e
G
M
O
s
a
r
e
n
o
t
w
a
n
t
e
d
;
D
e
v
e
l
o
p
m
e
n
t
o
f
p
e
s
t
i
c
i
d
e
r
e
s
i
s
t
a
n
t
w
e
e
d
s
;
S
o
i
l
c
o
n
t
a
m
i
n
a
t
i
o
n
a
n
d
w
a
t
e
r
c
o
n
t
a
m
i
n
a
t
i
o
n
.
P
o
l
i
c
i
e
s
a
n
d
l
e
g
i
s
l
a
t
i
o
n
t
o
p
r
e
v
e
n
t
i
m
p
o
r
t
a
t
i
o
n
o
f
G
M
O
p
l
a
n
t
s
e
e
d
s
K
R
h
a
s
t
o
d
e
c
i
d
e
i
f
t
h
e
p
o
t
e
n
t
i
a
l
g
a
i
n
s
o
f
G
M
O
s
o
u
t
w
e
i
g
h
t
h
e
i
m
p
a
c
t
s
W
a
t
e
r
a
n
d
s
o
i
l
p
o
l
l
u
t
i
o
n
I
n
c
r
e
a
s
e
d
u
s
e
o
f
h
i
g
h
l
e
v
e
l
s
o
f
c
h
e
m
i
c
a
l
f
e
r
t
i
l
i
z
e
r
s
a
n
d
p
e
s
t
i
c
i
d
e
s
.
S
o
i
l
a
n
d
w
a
t
e
r
c
o
n
t
a
m
i
n
a
t
i
o
n
l
e
a
d
i
n
g
t
o
m
o
d
i
f
i
e
d
a
q
u
a
t
i
c
e
c
o
s
y
s
t
e
m
s
.
.
d
e
t
e
r
m
i
n
a
t
i
o
n
a
n
d
a
p
p
l
i
c
a
t
i
o
n
o
f
o
p
t
i
m
u
m
q
u
a
n
t
i
t
i
e
s
a
n
d
s
c
h
e
d
u
l
i
n
g
f
o
r
f
e
r
t
i
l
i
z
e
r
s
a
n
d
o
t
h
e
r
i
n
p
u
t
s
;
i
n
t
r
o
d
u
c
t
i
o
n
o
f
a
n
i
n
t
e
g
r
a
t
e
d
p
e
s
t
m
a
n
a
g
e
m
e
n
t
p
r
o
g
r
a
m
(
I
P
M
)
;
A
d
o
p
t
i
o
n
o
f
o
r
g
a
n
i
c
f
a
r
m
i
n
g
t
e
c
h
n
i
q
u
e
s
I
n
g
e
n
e
r
a
l
t
e
r
m
s
,
h
i
g
h
y
i
e
l
d
i
n
g
v
a
r
i
e
t
i
e
s
(
H
Y
V
)
r
e
q
u
i
r
e
l
a
r
g
e
i
n
p
u
t
s
t
o
a
c
h
i
e
v
e
e
x
p
e
c
t
e
d
r
e
s
u
l
t
s
–
p
l
a
n
t
s
p
e
c
i
e
s
a
n
d
v
a
r
i
e
t
i
e
s
w
o
u
l
d
h
a
v
e
t
o
b
e
e
x
a
m
i
n
e
d
o
n
a
c
a
s
e
b
y
c
a
s
e
b
a
s
i
s
;
c
l
o
s
e
l
i
a
i
s
o
n
w
i
t
h
M
A
W
R
P
I
r
e
q
u
i
r
e
d
.
O
r
g
a
n
i
c
f
a
r
m
i
n
g
t
e
c
h
n
i
q
u
e
s
a
r
e
c
u
r
r
e
n
t
l
y
p
r
a
c
t
i
c
e
d
i
n
o
t
h
e
r
a
r
e
a
s
o
f
t
h
e
F
S
U
a
n
d
s
o
m
e
o
f
t
h
e
s
e
c
o
u
l
d
b
e
a
d
o
p
t
e
d
.
R
e
s
i
d
u
a
l
I
m
p
a
c
t
A
s
s
u
m
i
n
g
F
u
l
l
M
i
t
i
g
a
t
i
o
n
:
L
O
W
-
M
O
D
E
R
A
T
E
R
i
s
k
:
M
O
D
E
R
A
T
E
Page  86
K
y
r
g
y
z
R
e
p
u
b
l
i
c
A
B
M
P
r
o
j
e
c
t
E
n
v
i
r
o
n
m
e
n
t
a
l
I
m
p
a
c
t
A
s
s
e
s
s
m
e
n
t
D
R
A
F
T
F
e
b
r
u
a
r
y
2
0
0
4
7
4
T
a
b
l
e
C
3
F
e
r
t
i
l
i
z
e
r
O
v
e
r
a
l
l
P
o
t
e
n
t
i
a
l
I
m
p
a
c
t
:
M
O
D
E
R
A
T
E
T
O
H
I
G
H
D
i
r
e
c
t
I
m
p
a
c
t
s
C
a
u
s
e
s
C
o
n
s
e
q
u
e
n
c
e
s
M
i
t
i
g
a
t
i
o
n
R
e
q
u
i
r
e
d
R
e
m
a
r
k
s
.
r
e
d
u
c
t
i
o
n
i
n
s
o
i
l
o
r
g
a
n
i
c
c
o
n
t
e
n
t
R
e
l
i
a
n
c
e
o
n
c
h
e
m
i
c
a
l
f
e
r
t
i
l
i
z
e
r
s
w
h
i
c
h
d
o
h
a
v
e
a
n
o
r
g
a
n
i
c
c
o
m
p
o
n
e
n
t
–
l
e
s
s
r
e
l
i
a
n
c
e
o
n
c
o
m
p
o
s
t
m
a
t
e
r
i
a
l
a
n
d
m
a
n
u
r
e
f
o
r
m
e
e
t
i
n
g
s
o
i
l
f
e
r
t
i
l
i
t
y
r
e
q
u
i
r
e
m
e
n
t
s
.
M
o
d
i
f
i
e
d
s
o
i
l
s
t
r
u
c
t
u
r
e
a
n
d
r
e
d
u
c
t
i
o
n
i
n
s
o
i
l
m
o
i
s
t
u
r
e
h
o
l
d
i
n
g
c
a
p
a
c
i
t
y
.
I
n
t
h
e
l
o
n
g
r
u
n
,
p
o
s
s
i
b
l
e
l
o
s
s
o
f
p
r
o
d
u
c
t
i
v
i
t
y
a
s
a
r
e
s
u
l
t
o
f
i
n
s
u
f
f
i
c
i
e
n
t
s
o
i
l
m
o
i
s
t
u
r
e
;
l
o
s
s
o
f
s
o
i
l
’
s
n
a
t
u
r
a
l
f
e
r
t
i
l
i
t
y
.
F
e
r
t
i
l
i
z
e
r
a
p
p
l
i
c
a
t
i
o
n
i
n
c
o
n
j
u
n
c
t
i
o
n
w
i
t
h
c
r
o
p
r
o
t
a
t
i
o
n
p
r
a
c
t
i
c
e
s
.
F
u
r
t
h
e
r
r
e
d
u
c
e
c
h
e
m
i
c
a
l
f
e
r
t
i
l
i
z
e
r
u
s
e
t
h
r
o
u
g
h
i
n
c
o
r
p
o
r
a
t
i
o
n
o
f
v
a
r
i
o
u
s
o
r
g
a
n
i
c
c
u
l
t
i
v
a
t
i
o
n
p
r
a
c
t
i
c
e
s
.
E
x
t
e
n
s
i
o
n
w
o
r
k
e
r
s
s
h
o
u
l
d
w
o
r
k
c
l
o
s
e
l
y
w
i
t
h
f
a
r
m
e
r
s
t
o
d
e
v
e
l
o
p
a
p
p
l
i
c
a
t
i
o
n
r
a
t
e
s
a
n
d
b
e
s
t
l
a
n
d
h
u
s
b
a
n
d
r
y
a
n
d
c
r
o
p
r
o
t
a
t
i
o
n
p
l
a
n
s
.
A
i
r
p
o
l
l
u
t
i
o
n
E
m
i
s
s
i
o
n
o
f
g
r
e
e
n
h
o
u
s
e
g
a
s
e
s
f
r
o
m
c
h
e
m
i
c
a
l
f
e
r
t
i
l
i
z
e
r
s
.
C
o
n
t
r
i
b
u
t
i
o
n
t
o
g
l
o
b
a
l
w
a
r
m
i
n
g
r
e
s
u
l
t
i
n
g
i
n
c
l
i
m
a
t
e
c
h
a
n
g
e
.
O
p
t
i
m
u
m
f
e
r
t
i
l
i
z
e
r
q
u
a
n
t
i
t
i
e
s
a
n
d
a
p
p
l
i
c
a
t
i
o
n
s
c
h
e
d
u
l
e
s
s
h
o
u
l
d
b
e
p
l
a
n
n
e
d
a
n
d
i
m
p
l
e
m
e
n
t
e
d
.
W
a
t
e
r
p
o
l
l
u
t
i
o
n
N
u
t
r
i
e
n
t
e
n
r
i
c
h
m
e
n
t
o
f
w
a
t
e
r
b
o
d
i
e
s
f
r
o
m
f
e
r
t
i
l
i
z
e
r
r
u
n
o
f
f
.
E
u
t
r
o
p
h
i
c
a
t
i
o
n
o
f
w
a
t
e
r
b
o
d
i
e
s
;
m
o
d
i
f
i
e
d
a
q
u
a
t
i
c
e
c
o
s
y
s
t
e
m
s
.
C
o
n
t
a
m
i
n
a
t
e
d
p
o
t
a
b
l
e
w
a
t
e
r
s
o
u
r
c
e
s
.
O
p
t
i
m
u
m
f
e
r
t
i
l
i
z
e
r
q
u
a
n
t
i
t
i
e
s
a
n
d
a
p
p
l
i
c
a
t
i
o
n
s
c
h
e
d
u
l
e
s
s
h
o
u
l
d
b
e
p
l
a
n
n
e
d
a
n
d
i
m
p
l
e
m
e
n
t
e
d
.
O
r
g
a
n
i
c
f
a
r
m
i
n
g
t
e
c
h
n
i
q
u
e
s
s
h
o
u
l
d
b
e
i
n
t
r
o
d
u
c
e
d
.
W
o
r
k
c
l
o
s
e
l
y
w
i
t
h
e
x
t
e
n
s
i
o
n
w
o
r
k
e
r
s
t
o
d
e
v
e
l
o
p
b
e
s
t
l
a
n
d
a
n
d
c
r
o
p
m
a
n
a
g
e
m
e
n
t
p
l
a
n
s
R
e
s
i
d
u
a
l
I
m
p
a
c
t
A
s
s
u
m
i
n
g
F
u
l
l
M
i
t
i
g
a
t
i
o
n
:
L
O
W
-
M
O
D
E
R
A
T
E
R
i
s
k
:
L
O
W
–
M
O
D
E
R
A
T
E
Page  87
K
y
r
g
y
z
R
e
p
u
b
l
i
c
A
B
M
P
r
o
j
e
c
t
E
n
v
i
r
o
n
m
e
n
t
a
l
I
m
p
a
c
t
A
s
s
e
s
s
m
e
n
t
D
R
A
F
T
F
e
b
r
u
a
r
y
2
0
0
4
7
5
T
a
b
l
e
C
4
P
e
s
t
i
c
i
d
e
s
S
i
g
n
i
f
i
c
a
n
c
e
o
f
O
v
e
r
a
l
l
P
o
t
e
n
t
i
a
l
I
m
p
a
c
t
:
H
I
G
H
P
o
t
e
n
t
i
a
l
I
m
p
a
c
t
s
C
a
u
s
e
s
C
o
n
s
e
q
u
e
n
c
e
s
M
i
t
i
g
a
t
i
o
n
R
e
q
u
i
r
e
d
R
e
m
a
r
k
s
I
l
l
n
e
s
s
I
m
p
r
o
p
e
r
h
a
n
d
l
i
n
g
,
a
p
p
l
i
c
a
t
i
o
n
a
n
d
s
t
o
r
a
g
e
o
f
p
e
s
t
i
c
i
d
e
s
.
C
o
n
s
u
m
p
t
i
o
n
o
f
c
r
o
p
s
w
i
t
h
p
e
s
t
i
c
i
d
e
r
e
s
i
d
u
e
s
.
.
i
n
c
r
e
a
s
e
d
h
e
a
l
t
h
c
o
s
t
s
;
l
o
s
t
w
o
r
k
t
i
m
e
;
l
o
s
t
f
a
m
i
l
y
i
n
c
o
m
e
.
T
r
a
i
n
i
n
g
i
n
t
h
e
p
r
o
p
e
r
h
a
n
d
l
i
n
g
a
n
d
u
s
e
o
f
p
e
s
t
i
c
i
d
e
s
;
p
r
o
p
e
r
s
t
o
r
a
g
e
o
f
p
e
s
t
i
c
i
d
e
s
.
.
i
n
t
r
o
d
u
c
e
a
n
I
P
M
(
i
n
t
e
g
r
a
t
e
d
p
e
s
t
m
a
n
a
g
e
m
e
n
t
p
r
o
g
r
a
m
)
U
s
e
o
n
l
y
U
N
a
p
p
r
o
v
e
d
p
e
s
t
i
c
i
d
e
s
.
H
e
a
l
t
h
w
a
r
n
i
n
g
s
t
o
w
a
s
h
f
o
o
d
s
.
M
A
W
R
P
I
s
h
o
u
l
d
d
e
v
e
l
o
p
a
p
p
l
i
c
a
t
i
o
n
c
e
r
t
i
f
i
c
a
t
i
o
n
p
r
o
g
r
a
m
s
.
I
t
s
h
o
u
l
d
b
e
d
e
t
e
r
m
i
n
e
d
i
f
M
A
W
R
P
I
i
s
d
e
v
e
l
o
p
i
n
g
a
n
I
P
M
p
r
o
g
r
a
m
.
P
u
b
l
i
c
e
d
u
c
a
t
i
o
n
i
s
r
e
q
u
i
r
e
d
a
n
d
t
h
i
s
c
o
u
l
d
b
e
d
o
n
e
t
h
r
o
u
g
h
M
A
W
R
P
I
a
n
d
t
h
e
N
G
O
c
o
m
m
u
n
i
t
y
S
o
i
l
c
o
n
t
a
m
i
n
a
t
i
o
n
R
e
s
i
d
u
a
l
p
e
s
t
i
c
i
d
e
s
i
n
s
o
i
l
.
L
o
s
s
o
f
s
o
i
l
p
r
o
d
u
c
t
i
v
i
t
y
;
l
o
n
g
t
e
r
m
l
o
s
s
/
a
l
t
e
r
e
d
s
o
i
l
m
i
c
r
o
-
f
a
u
n
a
i
m
p
o
r
t
a
n
t
t
o
s
o
i
l
/
p
l
a
n
t
r
e
l
a
t
i
o
n
s
h
i
p
s
.
U
s
e
o
f
a
p
p
r
o
p
r
i
a
t
e
p
e
s
t
i
c
i
d
e
s
t
h
a
t
d
o
n
o
t
h
a
v
e
r
e
s
i
d
u
a
l
s
o
r
i
n
w
h
i
c
h
r
e
s
i
d
u
a
l
s
d
o
n
o
h
a
r
m
t
o
s
o
i
l
.
D
i
f
f
i
c
u
l
t
b
e
c
a
u
s
e
a
g
r
o
c
h
e
m
i
c
a
l
c
o
m
p
a
n
i
e
s
p
r
o
m
o
t
e
t
h
e
i
r
p
r
o
d
u
c
t
s
a
m
o
n
g
s
t
f
a
r
m
e
r
s
a
n
d
f
a
r
m
e
r
s
w
i
l
l
g
e
n
e
r
a
l
l
y
a
d
o
p
t
t
h
e
l
e
a
s
t
c
o
s
t
c
h
e
m
i
c
a
l
t
h
a
t
d
o
e
s
t
h
e
j
o
b
.
L
o
s
s
o
f
b
i
o
d
i
v
e
r
s
i
t
y
P
e
s
t
i
c
i
d
e
i
n
g
e
s
t
i
o
n
b
y
f
a
u
n
a
.
L
o
s
s
o
f
f
a
u
n
a
.
U
s
e
U
N
a
p
p
r
o
v
e
d
p
e
s
t
i
c
i
d
e
s
.
‘
S
i
l
e
n
t
S
p
r
i
n
g
’
b
y
R
a
c
h
e
l
C
a
r
s
o
n
.
W
a
t
e
r
p
o
l
l
u
t
i
o
n
G
r
o
u
n
d
a
n
d
s
u
r
f
a
c
e
w
a
t
e
r
c
o
n
t
a
m
i
n
a
t
i
o
n
.
I
m
p
a
i
r
e
d
h
e
a
l
t
h
o
f
l
o
c
a
l
a
n
d
d
o
w
n
s
t
r
e
a
m
w
a
t
e
r
c
o
n
s
u
m
e
r
s
;
i
n
c
r
e
a
s
e
d
h
e
a
l
t
h
c
o
s
t
s
;
l
o
s
t
w
o
r
k
t
i
m
e
;
l
o
s
t
f
a
m
i
l
y
i
n
c
o
m
e
.
A
q
u
a
t
i
c
e
c
o
s
y
s
t
e
m
s
d
a
m
a
g
e
d
;
b
i
o
d
i
v
e
r
s
i
t
y
l
o
s
s
e
s
.
U
s
e
o
f
l
e
a
s
t
h
a
r
m
f
u
l
p
e
s
t
i
c
i
d
e
s
a
s
a
p
p
r
o
v
e
d
b
y
U
N
a
g
e
n
c
i
e
s
A
p
p
l
y
I
P
M
t
e
c
h
n
i
q
u
e
s
.
i
n
t
e
r
n
a
t
i
o
n
a
l
w
a
t
e
r
s
R
e
s
i
d
u
a
l
I
m
p
a
c
t
A
s
s
u
m
i
n
g
F
u
l
l
M
i
t
i
g
a
t
i
o
n
:
M
O
D
E
R
A
T
E
R
i
s
k
:
M
O
D
E
R
A
T
E
Page  88
K
y
r
g
y
z
R
e
p
u
b
l
i
c
A
B
M
P
r
o
j
e
c
t
E
n
v
i
r
o
n
m
e
n
t
a
l
I
m
p
a
c
t
A
s
s
e
s
s
m
e
n
t
D
R
A
F
T
F
e
b
r
u
a
r
y
2
0
0
4
7
6
T
a
b
l
e
C
5
P
e
d
i
g
r
e
e
l
i
v
e
s
t
o
c
k
S
i
g
n
i
f
i
c
a
n
c
e
o
f
O
v
e
r
a
l
l
P
o
t
e
n
t
i
a
l
I
m
p
a
c
t
:
N
O
N
E
P
o
t
e
n
t
i
a
l
I
m
p
a
c
t
s
C
a
u
s
e
s
C
o
n
s
e
q
u
e
n
c
e
s
M
i
t
i
g
a
t
i
o
n
R
e
q
u
i
r
e
d
R
e
m
a
r
k
s
P
o
s
i
t
i
v
e
i
n
p
u
t
L
e
a
d
i
n
g
t
o
b
e
t
t
e
r
q
u
a
l
i
t
y
a
n
d
i
n
c
r
e
a
s
e
d
p
r
o
d
u
c
t
i
o
n
o
f
m
e
a
t
a
n
d
w
o
o
l
a
n
d
d
a
i
r
y
p
r
o
d
u
c
t
s
;
i
n
c
r
e
a
s
e
d
y
i
e
l
d
s
a
n
d
i
n
c
r
e
a
s
e
d
f
a
r
m
i
n
c
o
m
e
s
.
N
o
n
e
N
o
n
e
N
o
n
e
N
o
n
e
R
e
s
i
d
u
a
l
I
m
p
a
c
t
A
s
s
u
m
i
n
g
F
u
l
l
M
i
t
i
g
a
t
i
o
n
:
N
/
A
R
I
S
K
:
N
/
A
Page  89
K
y
r
g
y
z
R
e
p
u
b
l
i
c
A
B
M
P
r
o
j
e
c
t
E
n
v
i
r
o
n
m
e
n
t
a
l
I
m
p
a
c
t
A
s
s
e
s
s
m
e
n
t
D
R
A
F
T
F
e
b
r
u
a
r
y
2
0
0
4
7
7
T
a
b
l
e
C
6
L
i
v
e
s
t
o
c
k
f
o
r
f
i
n
i
s
h
i
n
g
S
i
g
n
i
f
i
c
a
n
c
e
o
f
O
v
e
r
a
l
l
P
o
t
e
n
t
i
a
l
I
m
p
a
c
t
s
:
M
O
D
E
R
A
T
E
T
O
H
I
G
H
P
o
t
e
n
t
i
a
l
I
m
p
a
c
t
s
C
a
u
s
e
s
C
o
n
s
e
q
u
e
n
c
e
s
M
i
t
i
g
a
t
i
o
n
R
e
q
u
i
r
e
d
R
e
m
a
r
k
s
L
o
s
s
o
f
g
r
o
u
n
d
c
o
v
e
r
a
n
d
s
o
i
l
e
r
o
s
i
o
n
.
C
a
r
r
y
i
n
g
c
a
p
a
c
i
t
y
o
f
p
a
s
t
u
r
e
i
s
e
x
c
e
e
d
e
d
.
R
e
d
u
c
e
d
p
r
o
d
u
c
t
i
v
i
t
y
;
l
o
s
s
o
f
s
o
i
l
;
s
e
d
i
m
e
n
t
a
t
i
o
n
:
h
y
d
r
o
l
o
g
i
c
a
l
r
e
g
i
m
e
m
o
d
i
f
i
e
d
r
e
s
u
l
t
i
n
g
i
n
f
l
o
o
d
i
n
g
a
n
d
d
r
o
u
g
h
t
c
o
n
d
i
t
i
o
n
s
.
D
e
v
e
l
o
p
p
a
s
t
u
r
e
c
a
r
r
y
i
n
g
c
a
p
a
c
i
t
i
e
s
a
n
d
e
n
s
u
r
e
t
h
a
t
t
h
e
s
e
a
r
e
n
o
t
e
x
c
e
e
d
e
d
.
W
o
r
k
c
l
o
s
e
l
y
w
i
t
h
a
g
r
i
c
u
l
t
u
r
a
l
e
x
t
e
n
s
i
o
n
s
e
r
v
i
c
e
s
t
o
d
e
t
e
r
m
i
n
e
a
n
d
m
a
i
n
t
a
i
n
p
a
s
t
u
r
e
c
a
r
r
y
i
n
g
c
a
p
a
c
i
t
i
e
s
.
L
o
s
s
o
f
b
i
o
d
i
v
e
r
s
i
t
y
I
n
h
i
g
h
a
l
t
i
t
u
d
e
a
r
e
a
s
s
t
o
c
k
m
a
y
t
h
r
e
a
t
e
n
f
o
r
e
s
t
e
d
o
r
o
t
h
e
r
p
r
o
t
e
c
t
e
d
a
r
e
a
s
;
r
e
d
u
c
e
d
v
e
g
e
t
a
t
i
o
n
c
o
v
e
r
l
e
a
d
i
n
g
t
o
s
o
i
l
e
r
o
s
i
o
n
a
n
d
l
o
s
s
o
f
w
a
t
e
r
h
o
l
d
i
n
g
c
a
p
a
c
i
t
y
.
P
o
s
s
i
b
l
e
l
o
s
s
o
f
s
p
e
c
i
e
s
e
n
d
e
m
i
c
t
o
K
R
S
e
d
i
m
e
n
t
a
t
i
o
n
;
h
y
d
r
o
l
o
g
i
c
a
l
r
e
g
i
m
e
m
o
d
i
f
i
e
d
r
e
s
u
l
t
i
n
g
i
n
f
l
o
o
d
i
n
g
a
n
d
d
r
o
u
g
h
t
c
o
n
d
i
t
i
o
n
s
.
E
n
s
u
r
e
t
h
a
t
g
r
a
z
i
n
g
d
o
e
s
n
o
t
o
c
c
u
r
i
n
p
r
o
t
e
c
t
e
d
o
r
o
t
h
e
r
i
m
p
o
r
t
a
n
t
a
r
e
a
s
.
W
o
r
k
c
l
o
s
e
l
y
w
i
t
h
a
g
r
i
c
u
l
t
u
r
a
l
e
x
t
e
n
s
i
o
n
s
e
r
v
i
c
e
s
.
L
i
v
e
s
t
o
c
k
s
h
o
u
l
d
b
e
r
e
i
n
t
r
o
d
u
c
e
d
t
o
a
l
p
i
n
e
g
r
a
z
i
n
g
a
r
e
a
s
(
b
u
t
u
n
d
e
r
s
t
r
i
c
t
c
o
n
t
r
o
l
)
i
n
o
r
d
e
r
t
o
e
l
i
m
i
n
a
t
e
w
e
e
d
p
o
p
u
l
a
t
i
o
n
(
r
e
s
u
l
t
i
n
g
f
r
o
m
f
o
r
m
e
r
S
o
v
i
e
t
g
r
a
z
i
n
g
p
r
a
c
t
i
c
e
s
)
a
n
d
a
s
a
w
a
y
o
f
r
e
h
a
b
i
l
i
t
a
t
i
n
g
o
r
i
g
i
n
a
l
c
o
m
m
u
n
i
t
i
e
s
a
n
d
u
l
t
i
m
a
t
e
l
y
o
f
p
r
o
t
e
c
t
i
n
g
b
i
o
d
i
v
e
r
s
i
t
y
W
a
t
e
r
p
o
l
l
u
t
i
o
n
L
i
v
e
s
t
o
c
k
i
n
a
c
o
n
f
i
n
e
d
a
r
e
a
p
r
o
d
u
c
e
h
i
g
h
c
o
n
c
e
n
t
r
a
t
i
o
n
o
f
c
o
n
c
e
n
t
r
a
t
i
o
n
o
f
m
a
n
u
r
e
.
H
i
g
h
n
u
t
r
i
e
n
t
l
o
a
d
i
n
g
i
n
r
u
n
o
f
f
w
a
t
e
r
s
l
e
a
d
i
n
g
t
o
p
o
o
r
w
a
t
e
r
q
u
a
l
i
t
y
a
n
d
t
h
r
e
a
t
t
o
h
u
m
a
n
h
e
a
l
t
h
(
E
.
c
o
l
i
)
.
I
n
t
r
o
d
u
c
e
e
f
f
e
c
t
i
v
e
w
a
s
t
e
m
a
n
a
g
e
m
e
n
t
;
d
e
s
i
g
n
a
n
d
i
m
p
l
e
m
e
n
t
a
l
t
e
r
n
a
t
i
v
e
t
o
c
o
n
f
i
n
e
d
q
u
a
r
t
e
r
s
.
R
e
s
i
d
u
a
l
I
m
p
a
c
t
A
s
s
u
m
i
n
g
F
u
l
l
M
i
t
i
g
a
t
i
o
n
:
N
O
N
E
R
i
s
k
:
M
O
D
E
R
A
T
E
Page  90
K
y
r
g
y
z
R
e
p
u
b
l
i
c
A
B
M
P
r
o
j
e
c
t
E
n
v
i
r
o
n
m
e
n
t
a
l
I
m
p
a
c
t
A
s
s
e
s
s
m
e
n
t
D
R
A
F
T
F
e
b
r
u
a
r
y
2
0
0
4
7
8
T
a
b
l
e
C
7
L
a
n
d
P
u
r
c
h
a
s
e
S
i
g
n
i
f
i
c
a
n
c
e
o
f
O
v
e
r
a
l
l
P
o
t
e
n
t
i
a
l
I
m
p
a
c
t
:
H
I
G
H
P
o
t
e
n
t
i
a
l
I
m
p
a
c
t
s
C
a
u
s
e
s
C
o
n
s
e
q
u
e
n
c
e
s
M
i
t
i
g
a
t
i
o
n
R
e
q
u
i
r
e
d
R
e
m
a
r
k
s
B
i
o
d
i
v
e
r
s
i
t
y
l
o
s
s
L
a
n
d
s
p
u
r
c
h
a
s
e
d
f
o
r
a
g
r
i
c
u
l
t
u
r
e
a
r
e
r
i
c
h
i
n
b
i
o
d
i
v
e
r
s
i
t
y
.
L
o
s
s
o
f
f
l
o
r
a
a
n
d
f
a
u
n
a
a
n
d
p
o
s
s
i
b
l
y
s
p
e
c
i
e
s
e
n
d
e
m
i
c
t
o
K
R
.
L
a
n
d
n
o
t
a
l
r
e
a
d
y
b
e
i
n
g
u
s
e
d
f
o
r
a
g
r
i
c
u
l
t
u
r
e
a
n
d
w
h
i
c
h
h
a
s
w
a
t
e
r
s
h
e
d
o
r
b
i
o
d
i
v
e
r
s
i
t
y
v
a
l
u
e
s
s
h
o
u
l
d
n
o
t
b
e
c
o
n
v
e
r
t
e
d
t
o
a
g
r
i
c
u
l
t
u
r
e
.
L
o
a
n
s
c
o
u
l
d
b
e
r
e
j
e
c
t
e
d
i
f
l
a
n
d
p
u
r
c
h
a
s
e
a
n
d
a
g
r
i
c
u
l
t
u
r
e
w
i
l
l
l
e
a
d
t
o
p
u
r
c
h
a
s
e
o
f
e
c
o
l
o
g
i
c
a
l
l
y
s
e
n
s
i
t
i
v
e
a
r
e
a
s
o
r
t
o
n
o
n
-
s
u
s
t
a
i
n
a
b
l
e
p
r
a
c
t
i
c
e
s
.
L
o
s
s
o
f
l
i
v
e
l
i
h
o
o
d
L
a
n
d
s
m
a
y
b
e
p
r
i
v
a
t
e
o
r
s
t
a
t
e
h
e
l
d
b
u
t
c
u
r
r
e
n
t
l
y
s
u
p
p
o
r
t
i
n
g
s
u
b
s
i
s
t
e
n
c
e
f
a
r
m
e
r
s
.
P
o
v
e
r
t
y
a
n
d
d
e
p
e
n
d
e
n
c
e
o
n
t
h
e
S
t
a
t
e
.
L
a
n
d
s
c
u
r
r
e
n
t
l
y
r
e
q
u
i
r
e
d
f
o
r
s
u
b
s
i
s
t
e
n
c
e
f
a
r
m
i
n
g
s
h
o
u
l
d
r
e
m
a
i
n
a
s
s
u
c
h
u
n
l
e
s
s
c
o
m
p
e
n
s
a
t
i
o
n
i
s
s
u
f
f
i
c
i
e
n
t
t
o
g
u
a
r
a
n
t
e
e
i
m
p
r
o
v
e
d
a
n
d
s
u
s
t
a
i
n
e
d
l
i
f
e
s
t
y
l
e
.
F
a
r
m
e
r
s
w
i
l
l
m
a
k
e
t
h
e
d
e
c
i
s
i
o
n
t
o
s
e
l
l
o
n
t
h
e
i
r
o
w
n
.
N
o
o
n
e
i
s
g
o
i
n
g
t
o
g
i
v
e
t
h
e
m
a
d
v
i
c
e
o
n
h
o
w
t
o
m
a
n
a
g
e
t
h
e
i
r
m
o
n
e
y
.
S
t
a
t
e
s
h
o
u
l
d
l
o
o
k
a
f
t
e
r
t
h
e
s
m
a
l
l
s
u
b
s
i
s
t
e
n
c
e
f
a
r
m
e
r
a
n
d
n
o
t
s
e
l
l
o
f
f
l
a
n
d
s
u
p
o
n
w
h
i
c
h
h
e
i
s
d
e
p
e
n
d
e
n
t
.
R
e
s
i
d
u
a
l
I
m
p
a
c
t
A
s
s
u
m
i
n
g
F
u
l
l
M
i
t
i
g
a
t
i
o
n
:
N
O
N
E
R
i
s
k
:
M
O
D
E
R
A
T
E
Page  91
K
y
r
g
y
z
R
e
p
u
b
l
i
c
A
B
M
P
r
o
j
e
c
t
E
n
v
i
r
o
n
m
e
n
t
a
l
I
m
p
a
c
t
A
s
s
e
s
s
m
e
n
t
D
R
A
F
T
F
e
b
r
u
a
r
y
2
0
0
4
7
9
T
a
b
l
e
C
8
T
r
a
c
t
o
r
s
S
i
g
n
i
f
i
c
a
n
c
e
o
f
O
v
e
r
a
l
l
P
o
t
e
n
t
i
a
l
I
m
p
a
c
t
:
M
O
D
E
R
A
T
E
T
O
H
I
G
H
P
o
t
e
n
t
i
a
l
I
m
p
a
c
t
s
C
a
u
s
e
s
C
o
n
s
e
q
u
e
n
c
e
s
M
i
t
i
g
a
t
i
o
n
R
e
q
u
i
r
e
d
R
e
m
a
r
k
s
S
o
i
l
a
n
d
w
a
t
e
r
p
o
l
l
u
t
i
o
n
C
o
n
t
a
m
i
n
a
t
i
o
n
f
r
o
m
m
a
c
h
i
n
e
f
u
e
l
s
a
n
d
l
u
b
r
i
c
a
n
t
s
.
L
o
s
s
o
f
s
o
i
l
p
r
o
d
u
c
t
i
v
i
t
y
;
l
o
s
s
o
f
c
r
o
p
p
r
o
d
u
c
t
i
o
n
.
L
o
s
s
o
f
p
o
t
a
b
l
e
w
a
t
e
r
.
G
o
o
d
p
r
a
c
t
i
c
e
s
t
o
b
e
c
a
r
r
i
e
d
o
u
t
b
y
e
q
u
i
p
m
e
n
t
o
p
e
r
a
t
o
r
s
.
A
g
r
i
c
u
l
t
u
r
a
l
m
a
c
h
i
n
e
r
y
s
h
o
u
l
d
b
e
k
e
p
t
i
n
g
o
o
d
r
e
p
a
i
r
a
n
d
f
u
e
l
s
a
n
d
l
u
b
r
i
c
a
n
t
s
s
t
o
r
e
d
a
n
d
h
a
n
d
l
e
d
i
n
a
p
p
r
o
p
r
i
a
t
e
l
y
d
e
s
i
g
n
e
d
a
r
e
a
s
.
T
h
i
s
i
s
a
m
i
n
o
r
i
m
p
a
c
t
a
n
d
a
w
a
r
e
n
e
s
s
t
o
o
p
e
r
a
t
o
r
s
t
o
r
e
f
u
e
l
u
n
d
e
r
s
a
f
e
c
o
n
d
i
t
i
o
n
s
i
s
a
l
l
t
h
a
t
w
o
u
l
d
b
e
r
e
q
u
i
r
e
d
.
A
g
r
i
c
u
l
t
u
r
e
e
x
t
e
n
s
i
o
n
s
e
r
v
i
c
e
c
a
n
e
d
u
c
a
t
e
f
a
r
m
e
r
s
,
a
s
w
e
l
l
a
s
l
o
a
n
o
f
f
i
c
e
r
s
.
A
i
r
p
o
l
l
u
t
i
o
n
.
C
O
2
r
e
l
e
a
s
e
s
f
r
o
m
m
a
c
h
i
n
e
r
y
.
C
o
n
t
r
i
b
u
t
i
o
n
t
o
g
r
e
e
n
h
o
u
s
e
g
a
s
s
e
s
a
n
d
g
l
o
b
a
l
w
a
r
m
i
n
g
.
.
e
n
s
u
r
e
a
l
l
f
o
s
s
i
l
f
u
e
l
e
n
g
i
n
e
s
a
r
e
e
f
f
i
c
i
e
n
t
a
n
d
w
e
l
l
m
a
i
n
t
a
i
n
e
d
.
M
i
t
i
g
a
t
i
o
n
w
i
l
l
b
e
d
i
f
f
i
c
u
l
t
.
S
o
i
l
c
o
m
p
a
c
t
i
o
n
H
e
a
v
y
m
a
c
h
i
n
e
r
y
.
E
r
o
s
i
o
n
a
n
d
s
e
d
i
m
e
n
t
a
t
i
o
n
;
l
o
s
s
o
f
w
a
t
e
r
.
E
n
s
u
r
e
e
q
u
i
p
m
e
n
t
o
f
a
s
i
z
e
t
h
a
t
s
u
i
t
a
b
l
e
f
o
r
s
o
i
l
c
o
n
d
i
t
i
o
n
s
.
L
a
r
g
e
f
a
r
m
s
r
e
q
u
i
r
e
l
a
r
g
e
m
a
c
h
i
n
e
r
y
a
p
p
r
o
p
r
i
a
t
e
f
o
r
t
h
e
m
a
g
n
i
t
u
d
e
o
f
t
h
e
j
o
b
.
R
e
s
i
d
u
a
l
I
m
p
a
c
t
A
s
s
u
m
i
n
g
F
u
l
l
M
i
t
i
g
a
t
i
o
n
:
L
O
W
R
i
s
k
:
H
I
G
H
Page  92
K
y
r
g
y
z
R
e
p
u
b
l
i
c
A
B
M
P
r
o
j
e
c
t
E
n
v
i
r
o
n
m
e
n
t
a
l
I
m
p
a
c
t
A
s
s
e
s
s
m
e
n
t
D
R
A
F
T
F
e
b
r
u
a
r
y
2
0
0
4
8
0
T
a
b
l
e
C
9
L
a
n
d
P
r
e
p
a
r
a
t
i
o
n
S
i
g
n
i
f
i
c
a
n
c
e
o
f
O
v
e
r
a
l
l
P
o
t
e
n
t
i
a
l
I
m
p
a
c
t
:
M
O
D
E
R
A
T
E
T
O
H
I
G
H
P
o
t
e
n
t
i
a
l
I
m
p
a
c
t
s
C
a
u
s
e
s
C
o
n
s
e
q
u
e
n
c
e
s
M
i
t
i
g
a
t
i
o
n
R
e
q
u
i
r
e
d
R
e
m
a
r
k
s
S
o
i
l
e
r
o
s
i
o
n
P
r
e
p
a
r
a
t
i
o
n
d
u
r
i
n
g
r
a
i
n
s
;
c
u
l
t
i
v
a
t
i
o
n
a
g
a
i
n
s
t
t
h
e
c
o
n
t
o
u
r
;
l
o
n
g
f
a
l
l
o
w
p
e
r
i
o
d
s
f
o
l
l
o
w
i
n
g
p
l
o
u
g
h
i
n
g
.
L
o
s
s
o
f
t
o
p
s
o
i
l
a
n
d
p
r
o
d
u
c
t
i
v
i
t
y
;
l
o
s
s
o
f
s
o
i
l
m
o
i
s
t
u
r
e
;
s
t
r
e
a
m
s
e
d
i
m
e
n
t
a
t
i
o
n
;
a
q
u
a
t
i
c
e
c
o
s
y
s
t
e
m
m
o
d
i
f
i
e
d
;
m
o
d
i
f
i
e
d
h
y
d
r
o
l
o
g
i
c
a
l
r
e
g
i
m
e
;
f
l
o
o
d
i
n
g
a
n
d
d
r
o
u
g
h
t
c
o
n
d
i
t
i
o
n
s
i
n
c
r
e
a
s
e
d
.
C
o
n
t
o
u
r
p
l
o
u
g
h
i
n
g
r
e
q
u
i
r
e
d
.
O
p
t
i
m
a
l
p
l
o
u
g
h
i
n
g
s
c
h
e
d
u
l
e
s
t
o
e
n
s
u
r
e
m
i
n
i
m
a
l
t
i
m
e
f
o
r
e
x
p
o
s
e
d
s
o
i
l
.
O
r
g
a
n
i
c
a
g
r
i
c
u
l
t
u
r
a
l
p
r
a
c
t
i
c
e
s
a
d
o
p
t
e
d
(
e
.
g
.
s
h
a
l
l
o
w
t
i
l
l
i
n
g
a
n
d
m
i
n
i
m
u
m
t
i
l
l
a
g
e
)
.
S
h
o
u
l
d
b
e
c
o
n
d
u
c
t
e
d
i
n
c
o
n
j
u
n
c
t
i
o
n
w
i
t
h
o
t
h
e
r
g
o
o
d
h
u
s
b
a
n
d
r
y
p
r
a
c
t
i
c
e
s
i
n
c
l
u
d
i
n
g
m
a
i
n
t
e
n
a
n
c
e
o
f
c
r
o
p
p
i
n
g
r
e
s
i
d
u
e
s
(
i
.
e
.
n
o
b
u
r
n
i
n
g
)
.
C
o
o
r
d
i
n
a
t
e
w
i
t
h
a
g
r
i
c
u
l
t
u
r
a
l
e
x
t
e
n
s
i
o
n
f
i
e
l
d
s
e
r
v
i
c
e
s
.
R
e
s
i
d
u
a
l
I
m
p
a
c
t
A
s
s
u
m
i
n
g
F
u
l
l
M
i
t
i
g
a
t
i
o
n
:
L
O
W
R
i
s
k
:
H
I
G
H
Page  93
K
y
r
g
y
z
R
e
p
u
b
l
i
c
A
B
M
P
r
o
j
e
c
t
E
n
v
i
r
o
n
m
e
n
t
a
l
I
m
p
a
c
t
A
s
s
e
s
s
m
e
n
t
D
R
A
F
T
F
e
b
r
u
a
r
y
2
0
0
4
8
1
T
a
b
l
e
C
1
0
O
t
h
e
r
f
a
r
m
i
m
p
l
e
m
e
n
t
s
P
o
t
e
n
t
i
a
l
O
v
e
r
a
l
l
I
m
p
a
c
t
:
L
O
W
–
M
O
D
E
R
A
T
E
P
o
t
e
n
t
i
a
l
I
m
p
a
c
t
s
C
a
u
s
e
s
C
o
n
s
e
q
u
e
n
c
e
s
M
i
t
i
g
a
t
i
o
n
R
e
q
u
i
r
e
d
R
e
m
a
r
k
s
S
a
m
e
a
s
i
n
T
a
b
l
e
C
9
R
e
s
i
d
u
a
l
I
m
p
a
c
t
A
s
s
u
m
i
n
g
F
u
l
l
M
i
t
i
g
a
t
i
o
n
:
L
O
W
–
M
O
D
E
R
A
T
E
R
i
s
k
:
H
I
G
H
(
t
r
a
d
i
t
i
o
n
a
l
f
a
r
m
i
n
g
t
e
c
h
n
i
q
u
e
s
a
r
e
n
o
t
l
i
k
e
l
y
t
o
c
h
a
n
g
e
)
Page  94
K
y
r
g
y
z
R
e
p
u
b
l
i
c
A
B
M
P
r
o
j
e
c
t
E
n
v
i
r
o
n
m
e
n
t
a
l
I
m
p
a
c
t
A
s
s
e
s
s
m
e
n
t
D
R
A
F
T
F
e
b
r
u
a
r
y
2
0
0
4
8
2
T
a
b
l
e
C
1
1
S
m
a
l
l
e
q
u
i
p
m
e
n
t
P
o
t
e
n
t
i
a
l
O
v
e
r
a
l
l
I
m
p
a
c
t
:
N
O
N
E
P
o
t
e
n
t
i
a
l
I
m
p
a
c
t
s
C
a
u
s
e
s
C
o
n
s
e
q
u
e
n
c
e
s
M
i
t
i
g
a
t
i
o
n
R
e
q
u
i
r
e
d
R
e
m
a
r
k
s
N
O
T
A
P
P
L
I
C
A
B
L
E
R
e
s
i
d
u
a
l
I
m
p
a
c
t
A
s
s
u
m
i
n
g
F
u
l
l
M
i
t
i
g
a
t
i
o
n
:
N
O
N
E
R
i
s
k
:
N
O
N
E
T
a
b
l
e
C
1
2
G
r
a
i
n
d
r
y
i
n
g
e
q
u
i
p
m
e
n
t
P
o
t
e
n
t
i
a
l
O
v
e
r
a
l
l
I
m
p
a
c
t
:
L
O
W
P
o
t
e
n
t
i
a
l
I
m
p
a
c
t
s
C
a
u
s
e
s
C
o
n
s
e
q
u
e
n
c
e
s
M
i
t
i
g
a
t
i
o
n
R
e
q
u
i
r
e
d
R
e
m
a
r
k
s
H
i
g
h
u
s
e
r
o
f
e
l
e
c
t
r
i
c
a
l
e
n
e
r
g
y
H
e
a
t
r
e
q
u
i
r
e
d
f
o
r
g
r
a
i
n
d
r
y
i
n
g
.
E
n
e
r
g
y
c
o
n
s
u
m
p
t
i
o
n
r
e
q
u
i
r
i
n
g
u
s
e
o
f
m
o
r
e
f
o
s
s
i
l
f
u
e
l
s
.
N
o
t
k
n
o
w
n
R
e
s
i
d
u
a
l
I
m
p
a
c
t
A
s
s
u
m
i
n
g
F
u
l
l
M
i
t
i
g
a
t
i
o
n
:
L
O
W
R
i
s
k
:
H
I
G
H
Page  95
K
y
r
g
y
z
R
e
p
u
b
l
i
c
A
B
M
P
r
o
j
e
c
t
E
n
v
i
r
o
n
m
e
n
t
a
l
I
m
p
a
c
t
A
s
s
e
s
s
m
e
n
t
D
R
A
F
T
F
e
b
r
u
a
r
y
2
0
0
4
8
3
T
a
b
l
e
C
1
3
I
r
r
i
g
a
t
i
o
n
e
q
u
i
p
m
e
n
t
a
n
d
i
r
r
i
g
a
t
i
o
n
m
a
i
n
t
e
n
a
n
c
e
P
o
t
e
n
t
i
a
l
O
v
e
r
a
l
l
I
m
p
a
c
t
:
H
I
G
H
P
o
t
e
n
t
i
a
l
I
m
p
a
c
t
s
C
a
u
s
e
s
C
o
n
s
e
q
u
e
n
c
e
s
M
i
t
i
g
a
t
i
o
n
R
e
q
u
i
r
e
d
R
e
m
a
r
k
s
W
a
t
e
r
l
o
s
s
e
s
E
x
t
r
a
c
t
i
o
n
o
f
g
r
o
u
n
d
w
a
t
e
r
;
e
x
t
r
a
c
t
i
o
n
o
f
s
u
r
f
a
c
e
w
a
t
e
r
.
L
o
s
s
o
f
w
a
t
e
r
t
o
o
t
h
e
r
c
u
r
r
e
n
t
a
n
d
p
o
t
e
n
t
i
a
l
u
s
e
r
s
;
m
o
d
i
f
i
c
a
t
i
o
n
o
f
a
q
u
a
t
i
c
h
a
b
i
t
a
t
.
W
a
t
e
r
s
h
a
r
i
n
g
p
l
a
n
t
o
e
n
s
u
r
e
e
q
u
i
t
a
b
l
e
d
i
s
t
r
i
b
u
t
i
o
n
;
N
o
e
x
t
r
a
c
t
i
o
n
f
r
o
m
i
m
p
o
r
t
a
n
t
a
q
u
a
t
i
c
h
a
b
i
t
a
t
s
.
W
a
t
e
r
s
h
a
r
i
n
g
p
l
a
n
w
i
l
l
b
e
c
h
a
l
l
e
n
g
i
n
g
t
o
p
r
e
p
a
r
e
a
n
d
i
m
p
l
e
m
e
n
t
L
o
s
s
o
f
s
o
i
l
p
r
o
d
u
c
t
i
v
i
t
y
S
a
l
i
n
i
z
a
t
i
o
n
,
w
a
t
e
r
l
o
g
g
i
n
g
.
L
o
s
s
o
f
p
r
o
d
u
c
t
i
v
e
l
a
n
d
.
A
p
p
r
o
p
r
i
a
t
e
d
r
a
i
n
a
g
e
s
y
s
t
e
m
i
n
s
t
a
l
l
e
d
a
n
d
o
p
e
r
a
t
i
o
n
a
l
a
c
t
i
v
i
t
i
e
s
d
e
s
i
g
n
e
d
t
o
e
l
i
m
i
n
a
t
e
c
a
u
s
e
s
o
f
i
m
p
a
c
t
s
.
R
e
s
i
d
u
a
l
I
m
p
a
c
t
A
s
s
u
m
i
n
g
F
u
l
l
M
i
t
i
g
a
t
i
o
n
:
L
O
W
-
M
O
D
E
R
A
T
E
R
i
s
k
:
M
O
D
E
R
A
T
E
T
a
b
l
e
C
1
4
V
e
h
i
c
l
e
s
P
o
t
e
n
t
i
a
l
O
v
e
r
a
l
l
I
m
p
a
c
t
:
L
O
W
P
o
t
e
n
t
i
a
l
I
m
p
a
c
t
s
C
a
u
s
e
s
C
o
n
s
e
q
u
e
n
c
e
s
M
i
t
i
g
a
t
i
o
n
R
e
q
u
i
r
e
d
R
e
m
a
r
k
s
A
i
r
p
o
l
l
u
t
i
o
n
C
O
2
e
m
i
s
s
i
o
n
s
C
o
n
t
r
i
b
u
t
i
o
n
t
o
g
l
o
b
a
l
w
a
r
m
i
n
g
.
E
f
f
i
c
i
e
n
t
e
n
g
i
n
e
s
a
n
d
c
o
n
s
e
r
v
a
t
i
o
n
o
f
u
s
e
.
N
o
t
l
i
k
e
l
y
t
h
a
t
e
f
f
i
c
i
e
n
t
e
n
g
i
n
e
s
w
i
l
l
b
e
u
s
e
d
a
n
d
c
o
n
s
e
r
v
a
t
i
o
n
w
i
l
l
n
o
t
b
e
a
p
r
i
o
r
i
t
y
.
R
e
s
i
d
u
a
l
I
m
p
a
c
t
A
s
s
u
m
i
n
g
F
u
l
l
M
i
t
i
g
a
t
i
o
n
:
L
O
W
R
i
s
k
:
H
I
G
H
Page  96
K
y
r
g
y
z
R
e
p
u
b
l
i
c
A
B
M
P
r
o
j
e
c
t
E
n
v
i
r
o
n
m
e
n
t
a
l
I
m
p
a
c
t
A
s
s
e
s
s
m
e
n
t
D
R
A
F
T
F
e
b
r
u
a
r
y
2
0
0
4
8
4
T
a
b
l
e
C
1
5
F
a
r
m
b
u
i
l
d
i
n
g
s
f
o
r
s
t
o
c
k
,
m
a
c
h
i
n
e
r
y
a
n
d
c
h
e
m
i
c
a
l
s
P
o
t
e
n
t
i
a
l
O
v
e
r
a
l
l
I
m
p
a
c
t
:
L
O
W
P
o
t
e
n
t
i
a
l
I
m
p
a
c
t
s
C
a
u
s
e
s
C
o
n
s
e
q
u
e
n
c
e
s
M
i
t
i
g
a
t
i
o
n
R
e
q
u
i
r
e
d
R
e
m
a
r
k
s
R
e
s
i
d
u
a
l
I
m
p
a
c
t
A
s
s
u
m
i
n
g
F
u
l
l
M
i
t
i
g
a
t
i
o
n
:
L
O
W
R
i
s
k
:
L
O
W
T
a
b
l
e
C
1
6
S
t
o
r
a
g
e
f
a
c
i
l
i
t
i
e
s
(
f
u
e
l
,
g
r
a
i
n
a
n
d
o
t
h
e
r
p
r
o
d
u
c
e
)
P
o
t
e
n
t
i
a
l
O
v
e
r
a
l
l
I
m
p
a
c
t
:
L
O
W
P
o
t
e
n
t
i
a
l
I
m
p
a
c
t
s
C
a
u
s
e
s
C
o
n
s
e
q
u
e
n
c
e
s
M
i
t
i
g
a
t
i
o
n
R
e
q
u
i
r
e
d
R
e
m
a
r
k
s
L
o
s
s
o
f
p
r
o
d
u
c
t
i
v
e
l
a
n
d
.
I
m
p
r
o
p
e
r
l
o
c
a
t
i
o
n
o
f
b
u
i
l
d
i
n
g
s
.
R
e
d
u
c
e
d
i
n
c
o
m
e
f
r
o
m
l
o
w
e
r
t
o
t
a
l
c
r
o
p
p
r
o
d
u
c
t
i
o
n
.
L
o
c
a
t
i
o
n
o
f
b
u
i
l
d
i
n
g
s
o
n
s
i
t
e
s
w
i
t
h
l
o
w
p
r
o
d
u
c
t
i
v
i
t
y
;
e
f
f
i
c
i
e
n
t
d
e
s
i
g
n
t
o
m
i
n
i
m
i
z
e
s
p
a
c
e
r
e
q
u
i
r
e
d
.
T
h
i
s
i
s
n
o
t
l
i
k
e
l
y
t
o
b
e
a
m
a
j
o
r
c
o
n
s
i
d
e
r
a
t
i
o
n
.
W
a
t
e
r
p
o
l
l
u
t
i
o
n
.
L
e
a
k
a
g
e
o
f
f
u
e
l
a
n
d
c
h
e
m
i
c
a
l
s
i
n
t
o
s
u
r
f
a
c
e
a
n
d
g
r
o
u
n
d
w
a
t
e
r
.
P
o
l
l
u
t
i
o
n
o
f
g
r
o
u
n
d
a
n
d
s
u
r
f
a
c
e
w
a
t
e
r
l
e
a
d
i
n
g
t
o
c
o
n
t
a
m
i
n
a
t
e
d
d
r
i
n
k
i
n
g
w
a
t
e
r
a
n
d
i
r
r
i
g
a
t
i
o
n
w
a
t
e
r
a
s
w
e
l
l
a
s
a
f
f
e
c
t
i
n
g
a
q
u
a
t
i
c
e
c
o
s
y
s
t
e
m
s
.
C
o
n
s
t
r
u
c
t
i
o
n
t
o
i
n
c
l
u
d
e
i
m
p
e
r
m
e
a
b
l
e
f
l
o
o
r
i
n
g
a
n
d
b
u
n
d
s
t
o
p
r
e
v
e
n
t
r
u
n
o
f
f
.
R
e
s
i
d
u
a
l
I
m
p
a
c
t
A
s
s
u
m
i
n
g
F
u
l
l
M
i
t
i
g
a
t
i
o
n
:
L
O
W
R
i
s
k
:
L
O
W
Page  97
K
y
r
g
y
z
R
e
p
u
b
l
i
c
A
B
M
P
r
o
j
e
c
t
E
n
v
i
r
o
n
m
e
n
t
a
l
I
m
p
a
c
t
A
s
s
e
s
s
m
e
n
t
D
R
A
F
T
F
e
b
r
u
a
r
y
2
0
0
4
8
5
T
a
b
l
e
C
1
7
P
r
i
m
a
r
y
p
r
o
c
e
s
s
i
n
g
S
i
g
n
i
f
i
c
a
n
c
e
o
f
O
v
e
r
a
l
l
P
o
t
e
n
t
i
a
l
I
m
p
a
c
t
s
:
M
O
D
E
R
A
T
E
–
H
I
G
H
P
o
t
e
n
t
i
a
l
I
m
p
a
c
t
s
C
a
u
s
e
s
C
o
n
s
e
q
u
e
n
c
e
s
M
i
t
i
g
a
t
i
o
n
R
e
q
u
i
r
e
d
R
e
m
a
r
k
s
S
e
e
T
a
b
l
e
s
f
o
r
a
g
r
o
-
p
r
o
c
e
s
s
i
n
g
(
A
n
n
e
x
B
)
R
e
s
i
d
u
a
l
I
m
p
a
c
t
A
s
s
u
m
i
n
g
F
u
l
l
M
i
t
i
g
a
t
i
o
n
:
N
O
N
E
R
i
s
k
:
H
I
G
H
T
a
b
l
e
C
1
8
F
e
n
c
i
n
g
m
a
t
e
r
i
a
l
s
S
i
g
n
i
f
i
c
a
n
c
e
o
f
O
v
e
r
a
l
l
P
o
t
e
n
t
i
a
l
I
m
p
a
c
t
s
:
M
O
D
E
R
A
T
E
T
O
H
I
G
H
P
o
t
e
n
t
i
a
l
I
m
p
a
c
t
s
C
a
u
s
e
s
C
o
n
s
e
q
u
e
n
c
e
s
M
i
t
i
g
a
t
i
o
n
R
e
q
u
i
r
e
d
R
e
m
a
r
k
s
S
o
c
i
a
l
d
i
s
r
u
p
t
i
o
n
E
x
c
l
u
s
i
o
n
o
f
c
e
r
t
a
i
n
p
e
o
p
l
e
o
r
g
r
o
u
p
s
f
r
o
m
l
a
n
d
t
o
w
h
i
c
h
t
h
e
y
h
a
v
e
h
a
d
t
r
a
d
i
t
i
o
n
a
l
a
c
c
e
s
s
e
i
t
h
e
r
f
o
r
u
s
e
o
r
f
o
r
p
a
s
s
a
g
e
.
P
r
o
l
o
n
g
e
d
l
e
g
a
l
p
r
o
c
e
d
u
r
e
s
a
n
d
i
l
l
f
e
e
l
i
n
g
s
w
i
t
h
i
n
c
o
m
m
u
n
i
t
y
.
C
o
n
s
u
l
t
a
t
i
o
n
w
i
t
h
a
f
f
e
c
t
e
d
g
r
o
u
p
s
o
r
p
e
o
p
l
e
;
W
h
e
r
e
r
e
q
u
i
r
e
d
,
e
s
t
a
b
l
i
s
h
m
e
n
t
o
f
e
a
s
e
m
e
n
t
c
o
n
d
i
t
i
o
n
s
.
T
h
i
s
i
s
n
o
t
l
i
k
e
l
y
t
o
b
e
a
p
r
o
b
l
e
m
.
P
u
b
l
i
c
p
a
r
t
i
c
i
p
a
t
i
o
n
e
x
e
r
c
i
s
e
s
h
o
u
l
d
i
d
e
n
t
i
f
y
a
n
y
p
o
t
e
n
t
i
a
l
p
r
o
b
l
e
m
s
.
R
e
s
i
d
u
a
l
I
m
p
a
c
t
A
s
s
u
m
i
n
g
F
u
l
l
M
i
t
i
g
a
t
i
o
n
:
N
O
N
E
R
i
s
k
:
L
O
W
Page  98
K
y
r
g
y
z
R
e
p
u
b
l
i
c
A
B
M
P
r
o
j
e
c
t
E
n
v
i
r
o
n
m
e
n
t
a
l
I
m
p
a
c
t
A
s
s
e
s
s
m
e
n
t
D
R
A
F
T
F
e
b
r
u
a
r
y
2
0
0
4
8
6
T
a
b
l
e
C
1
9
F
u
e
l
,
l
u
b
r
i
c
a
n
t
s
,
e
t
c
.
S
i
g
n
i
f
i
c
a
n
c
e
o
f
O
v
e
r
a
l
l
P
o
t
e
n
t
i
a
l
I
m
p
a
c
t
s
:
H
I
G
H
P
o
t
e
n
t
i
a
l
I
m
p
a
c
t
s
C
a
u
s
e
s
C
o
n
s
e
q
u
e
n
c
e
s
M
i
t
i
g
a
t
i
o
n
R
e
q
u
i
r
e
d
R
e
m
a
r
k
s
S
o
i
l
c
o
n
t
a
m
i
n
a
t
i
o
n
I
m
p
r
o
p
e
r
s
t
o
r
a
g
e
a
n
d
h
a
n
d
l
i
n
g
o
f
f
u
e
l
s
a
n
d
l
u
b
r
i
c
a
n
t
s
;
i
m
p
r
o
p
e
r
d
i
s
p
o
s
a
l
o
f
w
a
s
t
e
l
u
b
r
i
c
a
n
t
s
.
L
o
s
s
o
f
s
o
i
l
p
r
o
d
u
c
t
i
v
i
t
y
.
L
o
s
t
r
e
v
e
n
u
e
.
P
r
o
p
e
r
s
t
o
r
a
g
e
a
n
d
h
a
n
d
l
i
n
g
o
f
f
u
e
l
;
c
o
n
t
a
i
n
m
e
n
t
o
f
f
u
e
l
c
o
n
t
a
i
n
e
r
s
w
i
t
h
i
n
c
o
n
c
r
e
t
e
b
u
n
d
e
d
a
r
e
a
;
p
r
o
p
e
r
d
i
s
p
o
s
a
l
o
f
w
a
s
t
e
l
u
b
r
i
c
a
n
t
s
.
W
a
t
e
r
p
o
l
l
u
t
i
o
n
I
m
p
r
o
p
e
r
l
y
d
i
s
p
o
s
e
d
o
f
u
s
e
d
l
u
b
r
i
c
a
n
t
s
a
n
d
i
m
p
r
o
p
e
r
h
a
n
d
l
i
n
g
o
f
f
u
e
l
s
a
n
d
l
u
b
r
i
c
a
n
t
s
f
i
n
d
t
h
e
i
r
w
a
y
i
n
t
o
s
u
r
f
a
c
e
a
n
d
g
r
o
u
n
d
w
a
t
e
r
s
o
u
r
c
e
s
.
L
o
s
s
o
f
d
o
m
e
s
t
i
c
a
n
d
i
r
r
i
g
a
t
i
o
n
w
a
t
e
r
s
u
p
p
l
i
e
s
;
i
l
l
n
e
s
s
t
o
h
u
m
a
n
s
a
n
d
l
i
v
e
s
t
o
c
k
;
l
o
s
t
r
e
v
e
n
u
e
;
a
l
t
e
r
e
d
a
n
d
d
a
m
a
g
e
d
a
q
u
a
t
i
c
e
c
o
s
y
s
t
e
m
s
.
P
r
o
p
e
r
s
t
o
r
a
g
e
a
n
d
h
a
n
d
l
i
n
g
o
f
f
u
e
l
;
c
o
n
t
a
i
n
m
e
n
t
o
f
f
u
e
l
c
o
n
t
a
i
n
e
r
s
w
i
t
h
i
n
c
o
n
c
r
e
t
e
b
u
n
d
e
d
a
r
e
a
;
p
r
o
p
e
r
d
i
s
p
o
s
a
l
o
f
w
a
s
t
e
s
l
u
b
r
i
c
a
n
t
s
.
R
e
s
i
d
u
a
l
I
m
p
a
c
t
A
s
s
u
m
i
n
g
F
u
l
l
M
i
t
i
g
a
t
i
o
n
:
N
O
N
E
R
i
s
k
:
L
O
W
–
M
O
D
E
R
A
T
E
Page  99
K
y
r
g
y
z
R
e
p
u
b
l
i
c
A
B
M
P
r
o
j
e
c
t
E
n
v
i
r
o
n
m
e
n
t
a
l
I
m
p
a
c
t
A
s
s
e
s
s
m
e
n
t
D
R
A
F
T
F
e
b
r
u
a
r
y
2
0
0
4
8
7
T
a
b
l
e
C
2
0
V
e
t
e
r
i
n
a
r
y
s
e
r
v
i
c
e
s
S
i
g
n
i
f
i
c
a
n
c
e
o
f
O
v
e
r
a
l
l
P
o
t
e
n
t
i
a
l
I
m
p
a
c
t
s
:
H
I
G
H
P
o
t
e
n
t
i
a
l
I
m
p
a
c
t
s
C
a
u
s
e
s
P
o
t
e
n
t
i
a
l
C
o
n
s
e
q
u
e
n
c
e
s
M
i
t
i
g
a
t
i
o
n
R
e
q
u
i
r
e
d
R
e
m
a
r
k
s
H
u
m
a
n
i
l
l
n
e
s
s
I
n
g
e
s
t
i
o
n
o
f
m
e
a
t
p
r
o
d
u
c
t
s
c
o
n
t
a
i
n
i
n
g
h
o
r
m
o
n
e
s
a
n
d
o
t
h
e
r
c
h
e
m
i
c
a
l
s
.
L
o
s
t
w
o
r
k
a
n
d
i
n
c
o
m
e
.
O
r
g
a
n
i
c
m
e
t
h
o
d
s
o
f
l
i
v
e
s
t
o
c
k
h
u
s
b
a
n
d
r
y
c
o
u
l
d
b
e
u
s
e
d
;
m
i
n
i
m
a
l
a
p
p
l
i
c
a
t
i
o
n
o
f
o
n
l
y
n
e
c
e
s
s
a
r
y
d
r
u
g
s
.
O
n
l
y
a
p
p
r
o
v
e
d
d
r
u
g
s
a
n
d
h
o
r
m
o
n
e
s
s
h
o
u
l
d
b
e
u
s
e
d
b
u
t
e
v
e
n
t
h
e
s
e
c
o
u
l
d
h
a
v
e
s
o
m
e
l
o
n
g
t
e
r
m
,
a
n
d
y
e
t
u
n
k
n
o
w
n
,
e
f
f
e
c
t
s
o
n
h
u
m
a
n
s
.
S
o
i
l
a
n
d
w
a
t
e
r
c
o
n
t
a
m
i
n
a
t
i
o
n
.
I
n
s
e
c
t
i
c
i
d
e
s
u
s
e
d
i
n
d
i
p
t
a
n
k
s
.
C
o
n
t
a
m
i
n
a
t
e
d
s
o
i
l
a
n
d
w
a
t
e
r
n
o
t
u
s
e
a
b
l
e
f
o
r
c
u
l
t
i
v
a
t
i
o
n
P
o
t
a
b
l
e
w
a
t
e
r
o
r
w
a
t
e
r
f
o
r
i
r
r
i
g
a
t
i
o
n
i
s
c
o
n
t
a
m
i
n
a
t
e
d
;
d
o
w
n
s
t
r
e
a
m
a
q
u
a
t
i
c
e
c
o
s
y
s
t
e
m
s
a
f
f
e
c
t
e
d
.
P
r
o
p
e
r
c
o
n
t
a
i
n
m
e
n
t
a
n
d
d
i
s
p
o
s
a
l
o
f
d
i
p
t
a
n
k
l
i
q
u
i
d
s
t
o
a
v
o
i
d
s
o
i
l
a
n
d
w
a
t
e
r
c
o
n
t
a
m
i
n
a
t
i
o
n
.
R
e
s
i
d
u
a
l
I
m
p
a
c
t
A
s
s
u
m
i
n
g
F
u
l
l
M
i
t
i
g
a
t
i
o
n
:
N
O
N
E
R
i
s
k
:
L
O
W
Page  100
Kyrgyz Republic ABM Project                      Environmental Impact Assessment                               
DRAFT                                         February 2004
88
 
