QIRCULATING COPY
TO BE RETURNED TO REPORTS DESK
u e  bnpy                          CIRCULATING COPY
RILE       C  OPy                        TO BE RETURNED TO REPORTS DESK
DOCUMENT OF INTERNATIONAL BA-NK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Not For Public Use
Report No. P-1644a-BR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
CONPANHIA SIDERURGICA PAULISTA - COSIPA
WITH THE GUARANTEE
OF THE
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
FOR A
STEEL EXPANSION PROJECT
July 10, 1975
This report was prepared for official use only by che Bank Group. It may not be published, quoted
or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept responsibility for the
accuracy or completeness of the report.



,16 ' £Z~fIS                                   OOO=C000OOX Tco,C
ZlDo$sn=                                           a 
LCi- StwID   =                        ~~~~~~i$sn
) oiiama             =                        -.un ',ou;anmy
(6CL61 '9Z 9unP e° SV)



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE
PRESIDENT TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
COMPANHIA SIDERURGICA PAULISTA-COSIPA
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
FOR A STEEL EXPANSION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to Companhia Siderurgica Paulista-COSIPA (COSIPA) with the guarantee of the
Federative Republic of Brazil for the equivalent of US$60 million to help
finance a project for expanding COSIPA's raw steel production capacity from
2.3 to 3.5 million tons per year. The loan would have a term of 15 years,
including 4 years of grace, with interest at 8-1/2% per annum. The Government
of Brazil would charge COSIPA a guarantee fee of 1-1/2% per annum on the
outstanding amount of the Bank loan, bringing the cost of the loan to COSIPA
to 10% per annum. The loan would be made simultaneously with a loan of US$40
million from the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB).
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An economic report, entitled "Economic Position and Prospects of
Brazil" (355a-BR), dated June 20, 1974, was distributed to the Executive
Directors on July 3, 1974. Country data sheets are attached as Annex I. An
economic mission visited the country in October/November 1974 and its report
is in preparation.
3.        The Brazilian economy grew by 9.6% in 1974 continuing the rapid
pace which began in 1968. The average rate of growth of about 10% over the
period 1967-74 has resulted in a 60% increase in per capita income, a 130%
increase in manufacturing output and a 350% increase in the value of exports.
During much of this period, with carefully designed fiscal and monetary
policies, the Government was successful in gradually reducing the rate of
inflation. Some overheating of the economy developed in 1973. WThile initial-
ly the price effects of this were contained by administrative action, there
was a fairly sharp increase in prices during the first half of 1974 as a
result of the relaxation of controls and higher import prices. Inflation in
1974 was about 29%, compared to an annual average of 18% in 1970-73.
4.        Recent international economic developments have caused a sharp
deterioration of Brazil's balance-of-payments performance. The fourfold
increase in the price of crude oil (adding some US$2 billion to the import
bill), the steep rise in the price of most imported raw materials, as well
as the hardening of terms of external financial credits, made management of
the external sector very difficult in 1974. Further, these external factors
caught Brazil at the time when its economy was overheated and growth of import
demand was very high because of limitations on domestic capacity in key sectors
coupled with inventory accumulation. The current account deficit which



averaged 1', $1 bilJl i in     i ^r    of GDP, widened to about US$7 billion
or 7% of GYP in 19"   ;-J- -ing the -i;.zeable differential between import
growth (about 1U0O,^) anu eyo; or,:   ( iroughly 30%). The bulk of the deficit
was financed by .- arge inr.r-.se it .-he inflow of external financial credits
(about US$3. b:'l.`:ion oni a uet basis).  However, starting in September 1974
the tight m-ernational. mrlrkee; f-or long-term funds brought about a slowdown
in the fL-sv of fia ,cial  rei Vs and there was a moderate drawdown of reserves
(about US$1 billioan) in t-' latter part of the year.  Nevertheless, Brazil
began 1975 with reserves of 2 raasonahly comfortable US$5.7 billion.
5.        Measures to cope witb c7ie new external situation began in March
1974, when a new government calm- into office. The first efforts of the new
economic team were directedi at restoring control of aggregate demand to reduce
the current 8ccount deficit uF the balance of payments to more manageable
levels and to halt the acceleration of inflation.  The main instruments used
to achieve these goals were the implementation of a more restrictive monetary
and fiscal program, tLe imposition of higher import duties and acceleration
of the "crawling peg" excr:ange rate adjustments. Indications of a tapering
off of the rate of industrial expansion and of inflation since the third
quarter of 1974, as well as of a decline in imports in early 1975, suggest
that the Government polic-ies have begun to take hold.
6.        The Governutent is committed to a substantial reduction of the
balance-of-payments c-urrent account deficit in 1975.  To this end, it intends
to continue monetary restraint, a balanced budget and a realistic exchange
rate policy, and to reduce stockpiles of imported intermediate goods accumu-
lated by public enL~-rprises during 1974.  The balance-of-payments outlook for
1975 is more favorable because prospects for most Brazilian exports continue
to be good, a slowdown in import price increases is expected and an increase
in domestic oil production is likely, thanks to earlier discoveries of off-
shore deposits in some Northeast states. The Government's plan to reduce the
trade deficit to about US$2.5 billion in 1975, compared to US$4.6 billion in
1974, should be attainable if imports can be kept at the same level as in
1974. However, the expected decline in the trade deficit in 1975 will be
partly offset by a substantial increase in interest and amortization payments
as a result of the large external borrowing contracted during 1974. The
current account deficit would be approximately US$5.4 billion. With expected
long-term capital flow, US$4.8 billion would remain to be financed through a
combination of financial credits and utilization of reserves.
7.        In recent years, Brazil lIas become more closely integrated into the
world economy and :its growth has become more dependent upon and vulnerable to
changes in the world economic situation.  The slowdown in the rate of growth
of the world economy7 could have an adverse impact on prices of Brazilian pri-
mary exports and on the rate of growth of its exports of manufactures. World
economic conditions will probably not permit Brazil to grow during 1975-80
at the 10% pace attained in the preceding years. In fact, considerably slower
growth is likely during 1975-76 with the very steep decline in OECD economic
activity. However, a growth path averaging 6% per annum still seems feasible
over the 1975-80 period. This pace of growth would result in an annual average



- 3 -
current account deficit of US$4.6 billion (US$3.5 billion in 1974 prices).
In financing this deficit, Brazil is likely to look more than ever to multi-
lateral lenders, not only because loans from other sources on good terms may
be somewhat less available than in the past but also because multilateral
lenders can act as catalysts to help mobilize other sources of financing. It
is estimated that to finance the projected growth path, the average annual
net inflow of medium- and long-term capital (that is, capital other than
direct investments and financial credits) required for the 1975-80 period
will be substantial, about US$1.8 billion, or three times the average for
the 1970-74 period. On the other hand, the direct import needs of most
public investment projects are relatively low, reflecting the ability of the
domestic capital goods industry to compete successfully under international
competitive bidding and the low direct foreign exchange component of many
projects with strong social impact. Hence, an appreciable part of official
external financing would have to be made available to cover domestic expendi-
tures if Brazil is to achieve its growth targets.
8.        By the end of 1974, Brazil's total external debt (public and private)
reached US$17.4 billion, of which two-thirds or US$11.6 billion, was in the
form of financial credits. Despite the large increases in the level of
indebtedness, Brazil's external liquidity steadily improved up to 1974.
Extension of the average term of financial credits and virtual elimination
of short-term credits had a favorable impact on debt structure. Together
with a rapid increase in exports, this resulted in a decline in the total
debt service ratio from 44% in 1971 to 31% in 1974. The public debt service
ratio for 1974 is estimated at around 17%, which is in line with that of other
countries at a similar stage of development. Further, net foreign exchange
reserves as of the end of May 1975 were still large, about US$4.6 billion,
equivalent to some four months of the expected 1975 imports of goods and
non-factor services. If an export growth rate of around 17% per year in
dollar terms (compared to 30% in 1970-74) can be maintained over the 1975-80
period and if average maturities on new financial credits gradually improve
from six to eight years, the total debt service ratio in 1980 can be expected
not to exceed the level prevailing in the 1969-73 period (about 38%). The
ratio for public debt alone would remain at the present level, around 17%.
Nonetheless, the fact remains that Brazil's external debt service obligations
are high. However, the large foreign exchange reserves accumulated over the
past several years ensure that Brazil will have the liquidity to meet its
debt service obligations in the short term, while the country's record of
high caliber financial management provides grounds for confidence in the
maintenance of creditworthiness over the longer run.
9.        There has been a remarkable broadening and deepening of the country's
productive base and of its infrastructure in recent years, as well as a con-
siderable strengthening of its external sector. However, despite its recent
growth and vast potential, Brazil is still a country with a very unequal dis-
tribution of income and extensive absolute poverty. The present Government
acknowledges the gravity of the country's income distribution problem and
accepts the responsibility for its alleviation. While like the previous
Government it believes that a high rate of growth is necessary to increase
the incomes of the poor, it does not believe that the "trickle down" effects
of rapid growth are enough and is in the process of shaping a new positive



policy which could be labeledl as "redistribution along with growth." To this
end, in addition to pursuing some of the social programs initiated by its
predecessor, the Government is also working on new measures for improving
income distribution. These can be classified into three broad areas: (a)
regional development; (b) provision of social services; and (c) wage policy.
10.       As to regional development policy, the Goverrment has formulated
a program known as POLONORDESTE for rural development in the Northeast.    This
program, which envisages investment expenditures of about US$700 million during
1975-79, is designed to raise the productivity and incomes of small farmers
in the Northeast through, inter alia, formulation and execution of integrated
rural development projects, including changes in land tenure. POLONORDESTE
is based on the assumption that the rural Northeast cannot be regarded as a
homogenous whole and, therefore, uniform standardized programs are inadequate.
Active consideration is being given to a major modification in the state
value added tax system to redistribute fiscal resources from the richer to
the poorer states, in order to give the latter the fiscal resources which
they badly need to accelerate social programs, particularly in education.
As to the provision of social services, the Government has created a new
Ministry of Social Security in order to consolidate its social benefit programs
and to extend these programs to new groups in the population. It is also
planning to strengthen the nutrition program which, under the old Government,
got off to a poor start. Greater emphasis is being given by BNH (the National
Housing Bank) to low-income housing, whose beneficiaries will enjoy better
financial terms than in the past. BNH is also developing a site and services
program to reach parts of the population even lower down the income scale.
In agriculture, the recently reorganized rural extension agency (EMBRATER)
will expand and strengthen its activities directed specifically toward the
small-scale farmer; and the newly established federal agriculture research
institution (EMBRAPA) is defining its program to include a selection of crops
and farm systems which will ensure that small-scale farms benefit from research
efforts. Overall, the Government's recently approved public investment pro-
gram for 1975-77 gives high priority to education, health, agriculture and
regional development, which account for about 30% of total public investment.
Finally, the Government intends to use wage policy to improve income distribu-
tion or at least to avoid its further deterioration. It has already revised
the formula governing the adjustment of the union wage scale and has introduced
an 8-10% increase in the real minimum wage.
PART II - BANK OPERATIONS IN BRAZIL
Bank Operations
11.       By May 31, 1975, Brazil had received 54 loans from the Bank
amounting to US$2,282.5 million, of which 34 had not been fully disbursed.
During FY65-69, disbursements averaged only US$10 million per year, increasing



- 5 -
to an average of US$136 million per year during FY1970-74, reaching US$225
million in FY74, and US$187 million in the first nine months of FY75. Dis-
bursements will continue to increase during the next few years. Annex II
contains a summary statement of Bank loans as of May 31, 1975 and notes on
the execution of ongoing projects.
12.       Bank lending to Brazil was very active in FY72, when seven loans
were approved totalling US$437 million, including three loans totalling US$192
million for the Stage II expansion of the steel industry. In FY73, six loans
amounting to US$188 million and, in FY74, three loans totalling US$242 million
were approved. In FY75, five loans to Brazil totalling US$436 million have
been approved, including a US$95 million loan to Companhia Siderurgica
Nacional-CSN (CSN) for its Stage III steel expansion, and a US$23 million loan
for an agricultural development project in the lower Sao Francisco Valley,
in the Northeast of Brazil. We are working with the Brazilians on the prepara-
tion of an integrated rural development project in the Northeast state of
Rio Grande do Norte, an agricultural research program, a nutrition proiect, a
second agro-industries project, a small- and medium-sized industry credit
project, a secondary and feeder road project, a project in support of the
establishment of a non-flat steel enterprise, a project to rehabilitate
and expand the Sao Paulo state railway enterprise and an electric power
distribution project in the Northeast.
13.       Brazil's external public debt outstanding and disbursed at the end
of 1974 totalled US$9.1 billion, and of this amount the Bank held 9.6%. The
Bank's share of the service on this debt was about 4.3%. If present trends
continue as expected, the Bank's share in total public debt outstanding would
increase to 12% by 1980. The Bank's share of public debt service would rise
to about 6% while its share of Brazil's total external debt service would
remain at the present level of 2.7%.
IFC Operations
14.       IFC has committed more financial resources to Brazil than to any
other country. Since 1957, IFC has made 26 commitments to Brazil, totalling
US$252.9 million, of which US$32.5 million has been cancelled, US$16.4 million
repaid and US$126.9 million sold. Of the balance of US$77.0 million, US$54.5
million represents loans and US$22.5 million, equity. A summary of IFC's
investments up to May 31, 1975, is given in Annex II.
Lending Strategy
15.       In its lending to Brazil, the Bank has sought to help the Govern-
ment achieve a number of important development objectives, which are inter-
dependent and complementary. One of these objectives is to help Brazil ease
the foreign exchange constraint on its development, a constraint that has
become more critical since the increase in petroleum prices, by financing
projects designed to increase Brazil's export capacity and, where economical,



- 6 -
to substitute domestic production for imports. The latter is the principal
aim of the steel expansion program, which the proposed loan to COSIPA and the
companion loan to CSN, which was approved recently, will support. The addi-
tional 2.6 million tons of finished steel products per year which will be
produced by those two companies by 1981, will save Brazil about US$1 billion
in imports (in 1974 prices). The balance of payments will also be aided by
the proposed agro-industries program which is oriented toward exports
-- the supply'of major quantities of food-stuffs to the rest of the world.
Much of the investment in the transport sector -- railways, ports and
highways -- is designed to facilitate the smooth and economical flow of
exports.
16.       Another of our lending objectives in Brazil is to support insti-
tutional development and policy reform, designed inter alia to help maxi-
mize public savings and ensure that they are used economically. Our lend-
ing in the steel sector is giving the Government support in following a
comprehensive and rational plan for the development of the national steel
industry. It has also helped the borrower enterprises to improve their
management and organization.
17.       Another major objective of Bank lending to Brazil is the identi-
fication and support of projects designed to increase productivity and in-
comes in the lowest income segments of the population, to broaden the
economic opportunities open to those groups and to alleviate human misery.
Project preparation efforts in this area have been intensified, and we hope
to present an increasing number of loans with this objective. We are ac-
tively associated with the preparation of new projects in the fields of
rural development, water supply and sewerage, and site and services. A
project designed to assist Brazil in formulating a national nutrition pro-
gram has been appraised. A particular effort is being made to help Brazil
develop effective integrated rural development projects to increase the
productivity of the small farmer in the Northeast, the poorest section of
the country. Furthermore, a project is in preparation to support agricul-
tural research in the Northeast (with emphasis on the technology available
to small farmers) and to strengthen the federal mechanism for coordinating
and supervising agricultural research. In general, the more efficient use
of public savings should enable the public sector to devote more resources
to the social sector.
18.       A final objective of Bank lending to Brazil is to provide part
of the very large volume of medium- and long-term capital inflows that
Brazil has needed and will continue for some years to need in order to sustain
rapid growth and achieve its employment creation and regional development
objectives. In some sectors, especially in electric power and steel, the
Bank's participation has helped Brazil obtain additional bilateral resources
in greater amounts and on more favorable terms. Our lending to COSIPA, for
example, is being accompanied not only by the loan of US$40 million from IDB,
but also by loans totalling an estimated US$254 million from equipment sup-
plying countries.



- 7 -
PART III - THE STEEL SECTOR
Bank Group Participation in the Steel Sector
19.       The proposed loans for the Stage III expansion programs of CSN
and COSIPA would be the Bank's fourth and fifth loans for the development
of Brazil's steel sector. The Bank and IDB will not participate in
financing the Stage III expansion of USIMINAS, a former borrower, which
includes a large amount of equipment to be ordered from the same suppliers
that won orders under the Stage II program. Since bilateral credits are
readily available for this equipment, Bank/IDB support for USIMINAS has not
been requested. Nevertheless, while appraising the proposed loans for CSN
and COSIPA, the Bank appraisal mission also examined USIMINAS' new expansion
project, since it forms an integral part of the national Stage III program.
The mission was satisfied that USIMINAS' Stage III expansion project is
economically justifiable and compatible with the Stage III expansion projects
of CSN and COSIPA.
20.       The Bank's association with the Brazilian steel industry began in
1965 when it made a US$420,000 technical assistance grant to the Government
for a study to assess the gap between the supply and demand of steel products
in Brazil in the period 1966-72 and make recommendations on the most econo-
mical expansion program. The study concluded that Brazil's comparative
advantage in producing steel and the prospective growth of domestic demand
justified a substantial expansion of steel-making capacity. It also concluded
that priority should be given to bringing CSN, COSIPA and USIMINAS to balanced
annual capacities of about 3.5-4.0 million raw steel tons each. Shortly
thereafter, the Government requested Bank support for the Stage I expansion
program, but the Bank did not participate and suggested that the Government
seek financing through bilateral channels.
21.       Significant delays in launching Stage I program and the rapid in-
crease in the consumption of steel with the recovery of the economy after
1967 led the Government to give the highest priority to the coordination of
the steel sector and the implementation of an expansion program for the
1970s, in the hope that this would forestall the need for massive im-
portation of steel products. In June 1970, the Government established
the Conselho Nacional da Industria Siderurgica (CONSIDER), a steel coor-
dinating agency with executive powers. CONSIDER, with the help of consult-
ants, drew up the Stage II expansion program, which called for CSN, USIMINAS
and COSIPA, the three large companies that comprise the flat sector of the
industry, to increase their respective steel making capacity from 1.7, 1.0
and 1.0 million tons per annum to 2.4, 2.4 and 2.3 million tons per annum,
with additional rolling and finishing facilities. The Government requested
assistance from the Bank and IDB in financing this expansion because it
wanted Bank support in securing additional external financing on favorable
terms and because the presence of the Bank would permit the companies to
reduce investment costs significantly through procurement of equipment on



- 8 -
the basis of international competition. Accordingly, in 1972, the Bank and IDB
made loans totalling US$320 million, consisting of US$192 million from the Bank
and US$128 million from the IDB. The Bank's contribution consisted of three
loans; US$64.5 million to COSIPA, US$64.5 million to CSN and US$63.0 million to
USIMINAS. As already noted, the Bank has also been asked to help finance a
large new private-sector plant for non-flat products to be located in the State
of Minas Gerais. Appraisal of that project is scheduled for later this year.
22.       The Brazilian steel industry has also been supported by IFC which
made investments in two major non-flat steel producers; the first to Agos
Villares, S.A. for US$9.9 million and the second to Companhia Siderurgica da
Guanabara for US$73.5 million.
The Stage II Expansion Program
23.       Progress in the implementation of the Stage II expansion program
has been good and completion is scheduled for 1976, taking into account an
average delay of about six months. The relatively close adherence to the
original schedule must be considered a major achievement, in view of the
difficult equipment supplying conditions which prevailed over the past two
years. By the end of December 1974 about 75% of all equipment orders were
placed, after international competitive bidding following Bank guidelines
for Bank/IDB financed items, and a modified procedure which takes into ac-
count credit terms, for bilaterally financed items. Particularly noteworthy
are the low price levels at which the major equipment was bid and contracted.
This factor enabled the companies to keep the overrun on total project costs
to within 40% of the original estimates despite far greater increases in the
cost of civil works and erection, ocean freight and engineering and adminis-
tration of expansion. Brazilian suppliers and sub-suppliers have obtained
about 16% of total orders placed, or about 30% of orders placed with Bank/IDB
financing. Their performance in terms of quality of workmanship and adherence
to delivery schedules has been satisfactory. Similarly, all civil engineer-
ing, construction and erection work have been carried out successfully by
Brazilian contractors.
Brazilian Steel Industry
24.       The steel industry in Brazil is of comparatively recent origin.
Belgo-Mineira in the State of Minas Gerais was the first major producer start-
ing up in the 1920s. Before CSN began operations in 1946, domestic steel
production was less than 300,000 tons per year or less than half of the
domestic demand at that time. Since then, production has increased rapidly.
In 1974, although handicapped by shortage of imported coking coal, the
Brazilian steel industry produced 7.6 million raw steel tons, and made Brazil
the sixteenth largest steel producer in the world. The principal steel mills
are located in the area bounded by the cities of Sao Paulo, Rio de Janeiro,
Vitoria and Belo Horizonte. Within this area are also the main sources of
raw material except coal as well as Brazil's major steel-consuming industries.
25.       In 1974, 45% of the raw steel produced was processed into flat
products and the remaining 55% into non-flat products. CSN, COSIPA and



- 9 -
USIMINAS produced virtually all the flat products. Non-flat steel was produced
by 40 companies (in addition to CSN), of which the ten largest accounted for
2.8 million tons or about 75% of total capacity. The remaining 30 companies
are all below 150,000 tons in capacity and work mostly on the basis of scrap
metal.
Steel Consumption and Supply
26.       Consumption of steel products in Brazil exceeded one million tons of
raw steel equivalent for the first time in 1947 and by 1963 had increased to
about 3.5 million tons.  The next few years of economic uncertainty resulted
in a decline of steel consumption, but by 1967, it increased to 3.8 million
tons. Since then consumption has increased steadily, outstripping even the
remarkable development of the Brazilian steel industry.
Production and Apparent Consumption of Steel
(In million tons)
Year     Flat Products      Non-Flat Products                Total
App.                   App.             App.    Raw Steel
Prod.   Cons.      Prod.       Cons.     Prod.   Cons.   Equivalent
1967      1.3     1.2        1.4         1.6       2.7    2.8         3.8
1968      1.7     1.7        1.7         1.8       3.4    3.5        4.6
1969      1.9     2.0        1.9         2.0       3.8    4.0        5.2
1970      1.9     2.1        2.1         2.1       4.0    4.2        5.6
1971      2.2     2.7        2.4         2.6       4.6    5.3         7.3
1972      2.6     2.8        2.6         2.7       5.2    5.5         7.5
1973      2.7     3.7        2.8         3.1       5.5    6.8         9.1
1974*     2.6     5.2        3.1         3.9       5.7    9.1        12.2
*Estimated.
27.       The high rate of economic growth in Brazil during 1970-74 resulted
in a much greater increase in steel consumption than previously forecast.
The average annual growth rate of apparent steel consumption (production
plus imports less exports) during 1970-73 was 21% per annum for flat products
and 14% per annum for non-flat products. Since import restrictions have not
curbed consumption of steel in recent years, apparent consumption is judged
to reflect real demand. In 1973, apparent consumption reached the 1975
consumption level forecast during the appraisal of the Stage II projects.
The increase in consumption of flat products can be attributed mainly to
growth in durable and non-durable consumer goods production (especially
automobiles) and heavy industry including shipbuilding. Growth in construction
and large infrastructure investments contributed to the increase in consumption
of non-flat products. With the steel industry producing at full capacity,
Brazil still had to rely on increasing amounts of imports during this period:
0.5, 0.8, 0.7 and 1.5 million tons, respectively, for 1970, 1971, 1972 and
1973.



- 10 -
28.       Preliminary data for 1974 indicated an apparent steel consumption
of 9.1 million tons of flat and non-flat products. Of this total, imports
are estimated to have been 2.6 million tons of flat products and 0.9 million
tons of non-flat products. It is known that the global shortage of steel
products which lasted until late 1974 induced Brazilian industry to stock-
pile large amounts of imported steel during 1974. Exports accounted for
less than 2.5% of production in 1974 and for the most part constituted ful-
fillment of previous sales commitments and an effort to maintain a presence
in certain markets of potential importance.
The Market
29.       As part of the appraisal of the Stage III projects, Bank staff
prepared an estimate of the growth in demand for flat steel products through
1981 (see Appraisal Report, Annex I). According to this estimate, which is
based on a probable growth rate of 12% per annum for flat steel products,
the demand for flat steel products would be 8.6 million tons in 1980. This
estimate is 1.6 million tons less than the demand forecast of 10.2 million
tons of flat steel products established in the Second National Development
Program which was based on a national economic growth target of 10% per
annum. The lower projection of demand made by the Bank staff reflects the
less favorable short-term outlook for Brazil's economic growth resulting
from the petroleum price increase and the slow-down in world economic acti-
vities.
30.       Under the Stage III expansion program, production capacity for flat
steel products would be raised to 9.0 million tons per annum by 1980. The
timing and scope of the expansion program is well justified, even on the
basis of the lower demand projections made in the Bank. First, allowance
must be made for a possible delay in the implementation of the program. Some
lead time is necessary to bring equipment up to full capacity. Furthermore,
some excess capacity is necessary from the point of view of maintenance and
efficient production programming at the factory level. In terms of indivi-
dual companies, the efficiency of Stage III equipment would be such that CSN
would be able to operate at a profit at 53% of capacity even on the basis of
the relatively low assumed steel prices. Finally, one of the stated objec-
tives of the Government is to export 10% of the Brazilian steel production.
However, unless the Stage III expansion were implemented on time and the dom-
estic demand for steel were very low in 1980, Brazil would have only a very
small exportable surplus of either flat or non-flat products. If a larger
surplus did in fact arise, temporarily, there should be no difficulty in
finding export markets, since the selling price of Brazilian steel products
is projected to be fully competitive with prices of US and European producers.
Institutional Aspects
31.       Over the past two years the Government has refined and improved
its organization for planning and financing the steel industry. As stated
earlier, CONSIDER was established in 1970 to prepare the National Steel



- 11 -
Program that was the basis of the Stage II expansion projects, and to arrange
the necessary foreign and local financing. In September 1973, the Government
created Siderurgia Brasileira S/A-SIDERBRAS (SIDERBRAS), a holding company
intended to be responsible for new public sector companies and public sector
contributions to private projects. The new Government which took office
in March 1974 decided that all public sector companies, both new and existing
would be placed under SIDERBRAS, and designated SIDERBRAS to make the necessary
detailed plans and financing arrangements in order to implement the long-range
steel sector expansion plans outlined by CONSIDER. The Board of SIDERBRAS is
appointed by the Minister of Industry and Commerce and consists of the
President, the Director Superintendent, Director of Finance and Director of
Raw Materials and Marketing. The day-to-day operations of SIDERBRAS are
handled by a staff of some 20 engineers, financial analysts and economists,
most of whom transferred from CONSIDER to SIDERBRAS when the latter was
created in 1973. The staff of SIDERBRAS has been placed under a heavy work
load involved in carrying out the enormous steel expansion program, but has
been performing in a competent manner. Staff of the Bank and IDB, who have
maintained continuity since the preparation of Stage II projects, have pro-
vided much needed guidance and consultation during the difficult initial
phases of the preparation of the Stage III projects.
32.       In August 1974, the Government expanded the scope of CONSIDER to
include overall planning and coordination of the non-ferrous sector as well
as the iron and steel sector. Working relationships between CONSIDER (now
Conselho de Nao Ferrosos e de Siderurgia) and SIDERBRAS are good. The two
entities will cooperate closely in the preparation of a new National Steel
Plan for the period 1975-85, which will be a comprehensive document covering
all aspects affecting the development and operation of the Brazilian steel
sector, both public and private, and will determine the scope, location and
timing of the Stage IV expansion program (see Section 3.06 of the draft
Guarantee Agreement).
PART IV - THE PROJECr
33.       A report entitled "Appraisal of COSIPA Steel Expansion Project -
Stage III" (No. 803-BR dated July 3, 1975) is being circulated separately to
the Executive Directors. The main features of the proposed project and loan
are summarized in Annex III. The project was appraised by joint IBRD/IDB
missions in May/June 1974 and September 1974. Negotiations with COSIPA and
the Government were held in Washington from June 11, 1975 to June 16, 1975.
COSIPA was represented by a team headed by Mr. Pedro de Souza, General
Superintendent of Expansion.
The Borrower
34.       COSIPA was founded in 1953 as a private company but since 1957 has
been controlled by Banco Nacional do Desenvolvimento Economico (BNDE). The
Company commenced its integrated steel production in November 1965. As of



- 12 -
December 31, 1974, COSIPA's share capital was Ci'1,752.8 million (US$335.8
million) of which about 87% was held by BNDE, 1i2 by the State of Sao Paulo
and the remaining 1% by private, local and foreign shareholders, all divided
into 64% common and 36% preferred shares. Through 1976, the State of Sao
Paulo will continue to invest in COSIPA, through purchase of shares, an amount
equal to 50% of its turnover tax (ICM) receipts on the company's operations
and is thus expected to increase its shareholding in COSIPA to around 20% by
1977. The shares held by BNDE will shortly be transferred to SIDERBRAS.
35.       COSIPA's fully integrated steel production plant is located at
Cubatao, a town of about 50,000 inhabitants some 20 km from the port of
Santos and some 70 km from Sao Paulo. The site is conveniently connected
with the principal markets for flat products (Sao Paulo, Rio de Janeiro and
Belo Horizonte) by railway lines and roads. The plant is also well connected
with major sources of raw materials; by railway for iron ore, by road and
railway for dolomite and limestone; and by its own port for coking coal.
The plant site is relatively flat but restricted in area, and COSIPA has
purchased a large tract of land close to the existing site, where new facili-
ties beyond the Stage III expansion can be constructed.
36.       The Company has two subsidiaries, Mineracao Ferro e Manganes, S.A.
(MFM) and COSIPA-Processamento de Dados Ltda.(CPD). MFM, acquired in 1964,
supplies COSIPA with all its limestone and dolomite at competitive prices
and, in cases of emergency, can furnish part of its iron ore needs. Almost
all (98%) of MFM's share capital is held by COSIPA and its Board of Directors
is composed of top executives of COSIPA. CPD, which is owned by COSIPA (80%)
and MFM (20%), was created in 1972 to undertake computer and data processing
work mainly for COSIPA, and to a lesser extent, for other organizations in
the area.
37.       In order to improve the effectiveness of COSIPA's organization and
prepare it to cope with the expanded volume of production, the Company in
1972 appointed Booz, Allen & Hamilton International, Inc. (BAHINT) to carry
out various studies and recommend necessary organizational changes at all
levels of the administration. These studies have been completed and the
recommended modified procedures have been installed in the lower and medium
levels with good results. At the senior management level, BAHINT's proposal,
which has been discussed and accepted by the Board of COSIPA, is to create
an internal board consisting of the President of COSIPA and five top executives
to be elected by the shareholders. The reorganization of the senior manage-
ment requires the approval of COSIPA's shareholders. SIDERBRAS, as the new
majority shareholder of COSIPA, has informed the Bank about the measures that
it will cause COSIPA to take at the next shareholders' meeting. We have
reviewed these measures and are satisfied that they would further strengthen
COSIPA's senior management.
38.       COSIPA has a comprehensive technical assistance agreement with
Nippon Steel Corporation (NSC) of Japan, which is providing the Company with
the necessary back-up for the successful operation of its plant and imple-
mentation of the large expansion program.



- 13 -
39.       Currently, COSIPA has about 7,600 employees.   The Company has not
had strikes in the past six years and labor turnover has been low. Since
1966, the Company's first year of integrated production, COSIPA has been able
to reduce its employment by more than 2,200 persons and simultaneously more
than double its output. After completion of the ongoing Stage II expansion,
labor productivity will increase to about 12 man-hours per ton of finished
steel which is in line with industry productivity levels in the early 1970s
in such countries as Japan (12 man-hours per ton); the US (12.2); and
Germany (15.6). By 1982, when Stage III will be in full production, COSIPA's
labor force is expected to increase further to about 14,100 persons. With an
expected output of 2.8 million tons per year (TPY) of finished products,
labor productivity should improve to around 10 man-hours per ton of finished
product. It should, however, be recognized that these figures are not fully
comparable, since COSIPA, on account of its product mix, does not have the
same amount of labor-intensive finishing facilities as are found in many
steel mills in other countries or, for example, in CSN.
40.       Due to the general shortage of steel in Brazil during the past
several years, the steel producers have been enjoying a sellers' market.
Despite these favorable conditions, however, and in anticipation of a more
competitive position, COSIPA has begun to strengthen its marketing functions.
The Company is conducting studies on how to diversify sales to different
sectors, fabricate part of COSIPA's production within the Company, system-
atically develop transport connections to customers, including coastal ship-
ping of heavy plates to shipyards, and in general to improve future sales
programming and production planning.
41.       Total sales of the Company increased from 473,000 tons of finished
steel in 1970 to 723,000 tons in 1974 or by somewhat more than 11% annually.
In contrast to net losses of US$6.7 million and US$5.6 million in 1970 and
1971, respectively, the Company realized a net profit of US$18.8 million in
1974. The earlier losses resulted from low domestic steel prices, high
financial charges and poor plant management. By 1974, these problems had
been mostly overcome. COSIPA plans to increase its present annual sales by
almost 1 million tons of finished products by 1977 as a result of the Stage
II expansion of production capacity and by a further 950,000 tons by 1982,
when the production facilities from Stage III are expected to be in full
operation.
42.       The debt equity ratio of COSIPA is expected to improve from 58:42
in 1975 to 32:68 by 1983 as a result of the increased cash generation after
the completion of the Stage III project. This conservative capitalization
will enable the Company to finance further expansion. The current ratio is
expected to increase from 1.2:1 in 1975 to 2.1:1 by 1980. After the com-
pletion of Stage III, the current ratio is expected to increase to 3.5:1 by
1983, if projected surplus funds were to be included in current assets. It
can be assumed that these funds would be used for further expansions. In
any event COSIPA would be required to maintain a current ratio of 1.1:1 and



- 14 -
SIDERBRAS and BNDE would promptly furnish funds when needed (see Section 5.09
of the draft Loan Agreement and Sections 4(b) and 4(c) of the draft Project
Funds Agreement).
43.       COSIPA's financial position should allow payment of reasonable
dividends. The Company agreed that it will not declare cash dividends on
common shares if, after payment of such dividends, the current ratio were
to fall below 1.3:1 (see Section 5.08 of the draft Loan Agreement). Also,
COSIPA will not issue new preferred shares if by doing so the total value of
preferred shares were to exceed the total value of common shares (see Section
5.10 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Project Description
44.       The project consists of:   (i) a new pier and additional loading
and unloading facilities; (ii) additional raw materials handling equipment;
(iii) a third sinter plant; (iv) a second BOF shop with two 120-ton vessels
and two continuous slab casting machines; (v) remotoring of the finishing
stands of the hot strip mill; (vi) an additional slab reheat furnace for the
4,100 mm plate mill together with an additional cooling bed and normalizing
furnace; (vii) a new pickling line; (viii) a new 5-stand tandem cold reduction
mill; (ix) a new temper mill; (x) lines for coil inspection, shearing and
electrolytic cleaning; and (xi) associated maintenance and auxiliary facil-
ities including a new roll shop for the cold mill, high and low pressure
boilers, one turbogenerator with substation and a fourth oxygen plant.
45.       The new facilities will increase the capacity of the plant from 2.3
to 3.5 million TPY of raw steel, reduce production costs, and improve product
quality. As already pointed out in the appraisal of Stage II, the new facil-
ities will complement and make full use of some of the investments being
made as part of the previous expansion, such as No. 2 blast furnace, No. 5
coke oven battery and the plate mill. Relative to the added production to
be obtained, the Stage III program will therefore require the installation
of less equipment.
Engineering and Project Execution
46.       In the past three to four years, COSIPA has developed a competent
organization for the planning and execution of expansion projects. The
engineering and procurement for Stage II was undertaken by the Company's
Superintendency of Expansion, assisted by NSC and Arthur G. McKee & Co. of
the United States.
47.       COSIPA intends to continue with its present expansion organization
and to take an increasing share of the responsibility for implementing Stage
III. NSC will carry out the engineering of all major production facilities
and give temporary assistance on procurement, supervision of erection and
start-up, in addition to the services to be rendered by the equipment sup-
pliers. Experienced Brazilian engineering and contracting firms will be



- 15 -
entrusted with the design of the auxiliary installations, foundations and
buildings to a larger extent than has been the case in the ongoing project.
There is no doubt that COSIPA's experienced team is able to plan, monitor
and control the progress of the Stage III activities, which are now getting
underway.
48.       Engineering and procurement action has commenced.   Orders for the
equipment to be financed by the Bank/IDB and bilateral agencies are expected
to be placed during the first half of 1976. The last installations are
scheduled for completion by the middle of 1979 in time to permit the pro-
jected increase in production and sales of around 13% (as compared to 1978).
The delivery and construction times are based on information provided by
potential equipment suppliers and are considered achievable.
Cost Estimates and Financing Plan
49.       The total cost of the project, as estimated in March 1975, is
US$1,228.8 million equivalent with an estimated foreign exchange component
of US$558.2 million equivalent. Capital cost estimates for equipment are
based on quotations obtained from suppliers during 1974 and were updated
by COSIPA to the end of 1974. Capital costs for civil construction and
erection, engineering, procurement, administration and pre-operating expenses
were estimated on the basis of the most recent cost experience for the on-
going expansion. The soft sub-soil over much of the site requires extensive
piling and foundation work. This and other construction difficulties encoun-
tered during Stage II have been allowed for as far as applicable in the Stage
III estimates. Contingencies have been estimated on the basis of price esca-
lation forecast for equipment and civil works (16% for 1975, 14% for 1976 and
12% per annum thereafter) plus physical contingencies of 10% on equipment
and 15% on civil works.
50.       COSIPA plans to obtain a total of US$354 million equivalent from the
Bank, IDB and bilateral financing sources. The remainder of the total financ-
ing requirement of US$1,092 million will be defrayed from COSIPA's internal
cash generation, additional contributions to their equity holdings of SIDERBRAS
and the State of Sao Paulo and loans from BNDE and from Agencia Especial de
Financiamento Industrial (FINAME) managed by BNDE.   The Bank and IDB loans,
totalling US$100 million equivalent, will be applied to finance a list of
equipment, parts and materials on a 60/40 sharing basis between the banks
as in the Stage II loans. The equipment to be financed includes steel making
and associated equipment, equipment for the improvement and expansion of
existing rolling and finishing facilities and auxiliary equipment including
material and structures (see Schedule 1 of the draft Loan Agreement). The
loan would not finance construction and installation (including civil works)
costs, which will be financed from Brazilian sources.
51.       Most of the equipment, parts, and materials not on the Bank/IDB list
will be bid competitively among the suppliers from the countries providing
bilateral credit and from Brazil, with the financing terms being taken into
account in bid evaluation. Of the estimated US$607 million cost of these



- 16 -
items, COSIPA plans to obtain financing from equipment supplying countries
for US$254 million and the remainder from local resources. So far, Austria,
Belgium, Canada, Finland, France, Germany, 1taly,Japan, Romania, Spain,
Sweden, Switzerland, United Kingdom and USA have indicated interest in par-
ticipating in this scheme.
52.       The Bank loan would be made to COSIPA at 8-1/2% interest per annum
for 15 years including 4 years of grace. COSIPA would in addition pay a
guarantee fee of 1-1/2% per annum to the Government, bringing the cost of
the Bank funds to COSIPA to 10%, which approaches the rate which COSIPA would
have to pay in the market. The IDB loan will be made at 8% interest per
annum for 15 years including 4 years of grace. Commitment charges will be
3/4% per annum for the Bank and 1-1/4% per annum for IDB. In addition,
IDB charges a flat inspection and supervision fee equal to 1% of the loan
amount.  The terms of the bilateral credits have not been finalized but are
expected to be for 13 to 15 years, including 4 years of grace, at an average
interest rate of 9% per annum. The BNDE and FINAME loans are expected to
have an average nominal interest rate of 6% per annum, plus monetary correction,
and to be made for 15 years including 4 years of grace.
53.       IDB's Board approved its loan in the amount of US$40 million on
December 12, 1974. The signing and effectiveness of that loan are contingent,
respectively, on approval and effectiveness of the proposed Bank loan. The
effectiveness of the Bank loan would be contingent upon the effectiveness of
the IDB loan (see Section 7.01(a) of the draft Loan Agreement).
54.       As in the case of CSN, COSIPA has been approached by foreign private
banking groups of international standing, regarding the possibility of loan
financing at medium term to supplement the proposed Bank loan. Such financing
would be in addition to the Bank loan and in substitution for some of the
borrowing which COSIPA would otherwise undertake within Brazil. We have
informed the prospective lenders, as well as COSIPA, that we would be prepared
to recommend to the Executive Directors our association with them or other
co-lenders, if this would result in better terms for the Borrower than it
could otherwise obtain in international markets and if the loan agreements
were concluded not later than six months after the approval of the Bank's
loan. The form that this association might take is described in my memoran-
dum to the Executive Directors of May 29, 1975 relating to the CSN loan
(R75-103/1). If and when such a co-financing operation materializes we will
return to the Executive Directors with full details regarding the proposed
private loans and appropriate recommendations for amendments in the Bank Loan
Agreement.
Disbursement and Procurement
55.       The Bank and IDB loans would be jointly disbursed in a 60:40 propor-
tion against appropriate documentation for the CIF cost of imported goods or
the ex-factory cost of locally manufactured goods. No disbursement would
be made for expenditures made prior to the signing of the Loan Agreement.
The estimated schedule of disbursement is given in Annex III.



- 17 -
56.       Procurement of the equipment to be financed by the Bank and IDB
would follow the Bank's Guidelines. Bids containing Brazilian components
totalling at least 50% of the bid value would be allowed a margin of pre-
ference of 15%, or the applicable import duty, whichever is less; and the
same margin would be allowed for identifiable Brazilian components of bids
for equipment packages with less than 50% Brazilian components. Since
Brazilian firms are becoming more competitive, and because the Bank/IDB list
of equipment contains equipment for which there is local manufacturing
capability, we estimate that the Brazilian firms may win up to 60% of the
bids. On that basis, and allowing for the fact that Brazilian equipment and
steel structures on the average are estimated to have an import content in
terms of value in materials and components of 40%, Bank financing would be
attached to local expenditures of about US$20 million equivalent. However,
the total expected foreign exchange cost of the project (US$558 million) is
much greater than the total foreign financing (US$354 million) so that sub-
stantial Brazilian resources will be used to cover foreign exchange expendi-
tures.
Ecology
57.       Brazilian pollution control regulations are still in the early stage
of development. When specifying the new facilities to be installed in both
Stage II and Stage III, the Company proceeded on the premise that air and
water pollution control should be in line with US practices or Brazilian
regulations, whichever are the more stringent. The cost of the pollution
control equipment is included in the cost of the project and is estimated to
account for approximately 2% of total equipment costs, as compared to about
5% for Stage II. The reduction is due to the fact that many of the environ-
mental devices needed for the project were already installed as part of Stage
II. The Company would be committed to install adequate air, water and noise
pollution controls, including suitable measurement devices acceptable to the
Bank, and also monitor emissions to maintain them within acceptable limits
(see Section 4.07 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Economic Return
58.       The project will help eliminate massive imports of flat rolled steel
products. COSIPA's selling prices are on the whole slightly below European
domestic prices for similar products. Current CIF import prices are somewhat
higher than domestic prices and it is expected that upon completion of the
project the Company could meet substantially lower import prices and still
earn an acceptable financial return. Based on projected long-term import
prices for steel products over the assumed 18 year life of the assets, the
project's rate of return to the economy is estimated to be 16%. Net foreign
exchange savings resulting from the Project are estimated at about US$230
million per year by 1982.



- 18 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
59.       The draft Loan Agreement between Companhia Siderurgica Paulista -
COSIPA and the Bank, the draft Guarantee Agreement between the Federative
Republic of Brazil and the Bank, the draft Project Funds Agreement between
SIDERBRAS, BNDE and the Bank, the Report of the Committee provided for in
Article III, Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement and the text of a
draft resolution approving the proposed loan are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately. Features of the draft Loan, Guarantee and
Project Funds Agreements of special interest are referred to in paragraphs
32, 42, 43, 53 and 57 of this report.
60.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
61.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
July 10,1975



ANNtEX I
Fags 1 of 3 P.C.s
8    h15 ma 2                                     l%o     i.(mid-1972)ft                                    4     abl    M
socuL =MCAM ~  ~     ~     ~     ~    Pe    alf obi ln
Refsrsore Countries
UP MM CAPT? US (ATla 8*82) /I                                                 6104             750 A       760        2 ,320 
DMMGRA.pHC
MMrW!th rat. (P.r thoomad)                                      42?          38  h.15 I.                  21 1~.        19.2 A
Cmode doeth rate (per thousand)                                 12          10        ~        97a        lo 72         6.6 7~
Xofsnt martal.1ty rate (peir thmaisd live births)              180         110                61 7.       1.0 YE       12.1. Z
Lif. expatanoo  at birth Cpa.'.)                                s0          61 If..           65 7.       70 N         72
rome r.prodectia    a.1                                        2.6         2.6                           1    v       10
Mge struotar. (prmsrt)
0-.Il                                                        4.3         4.2 /             46/         284        24.0 /b
is-a                                         ~~     ~     ~~~~~~~52.  55 7i  50         63/         68.8x
65 .id over                                                    33                                                   ?2
Ace Dna-&.7 Pao QL0.9                                          0.                                             __06/
Fancil  pLum,img. Ila of aomsptor-. emuativ, (those.)           ..          250
E.. of users (S of sr'iad anmm)                          1.
RM     Sho      for. (thom  ds")                              22,700       29,600 41        13,OD        1,100 If     53,200 /ac
PWraonLqp sOW1yod In Wlmltm54                              441              1.0          17 7?      19.1
bmssmtW    unempoyed inaiiot.-24t                                                                        s'7T       1.1.
0om   or.maC.   ineo.. reosivd by highest 50                28/          33/A             36 /1       21/An
ftroant of natimals lcom. roI vd by bighoet 20W                 51.4         62AY             64 1. 4T17
lsremtw of national Lomas. s..ivd by lm..t 20Wt                  1.           3 
Paossot of nationalgi  oma r.oeivad by loima 4.0W               12 
pw au   pr ortld  -.m                                      . .      3,300     0      1,570       3,560           24.0
Population pm hospital bed                      275         260              930          160 /a        80
ftr ompits ialoria supply a. % or reqmir.menta 5                102         109              flO          107           0
Psi' oqitt protein apply , tota  (pm. Ps dapT          ~         61          64.              65           96           76
Of ddb    Mimai mk PsIas                                       38          39               28          61.           45
heti raft 1-k "W' 4                                               .          .                           1.3           1.0 A
g m         abool Gorlimant 'tIm                       100   ~     130 &&           l4Z          1I            0
Ye.r. Of a         provided, first and asoond lso-l             13                           10112        128
Voostatioa  'mltn"    -a % of ".o. gohool *ni'ollmnt             19          17               24./         22 L         20
Adult Uitersy rate %                                              i 1                         81.B         91           9,9 /a.a
mom       Em. of pesospei' ram    (..rban)                         ..         1.0               2.2 4         .1.0 If
Perosms ooconplad wdts mibhat pipad mtsr                         .           67 '4b            61 /.oN     .             5/iL.t
Aseoss. fo .l.octrioity (.asS of total population)               ..          17 4"            5
Paroent of ftral popsitim. ocomoted to slsotrioity                            84LU
re mmivere psi' l00Dpopulation                                 66          61 /a           301 /a       507 /s       658 /a
P...mog.r oars P., l00 population                                 7          297              28           1.-  2 7?   117 Z
ZIlsotri. po-,  aonmq.tion (khP.i.po.)                          328         5441.            662.         836 Y      3,909/a
Uss_prit mr-mptiom p.o. kg p.r yms                              3,3    .3                        7        7 - .:.     i9.6 7.
Eotes, Figares ref., aith., to th. latast periods or to                                        ofoii  f  vroa  t.atS,, ou l  ve0.*tl~aa nd
isw latest yeas.. totest periods rmfsr in principle to             disribtoio   by age mid meo     mbnl      o.ai.
the Year. 1956-60 or 1966-70; tbs latstaiyrmnpr-                &   po~tl   stadards (o-.mofrwmmts) for siX mountrissam sa stab-
aipls to 1960 amd 1970.                  7        pi                liobad by usm& Ioosmi Isearoh Service provide for a mnm
Lk Th. F- Capit.a GP ..tiesta is at aarhot pri.m. fir               alomno    of 60 greae of total prtotei  p.r daY, a&d 20 Urme of
y.-. other than 1960, calelted by' the ~5    oomovrvimm         "I      od P.". protein, of ohist 10 grem  abni h ait-1
L*cholAmn as ths 1972 World Bank Atl.s.                        proteto    l. standard    are mmaht loser then those of 75
4L Aborng. ibe       of daog.targ pa. OM= of roproduotir$           e' of to.tal PrOtein and 23 gor.s. of a-i-al protein as an
Mm -                                            &-orda~~~~~~~~~~ for the moo-id, proposed by PAO in the Third Vsrld Food
4I Population grwth rates rer for the d.oades aiin     in           Sorre.orddetras                                     fbi.'m
1960 anod 1970.                                             4  Sms stdiss ha" suggestedtt r.d             hraeofcirn
4L RBtio of pqpulatlm. ondsr 15 sod 65 and over to popial-          ages 1 thron*h 1. my be owed as5first sPPronimati- toda of
timn of ags. 15-64. for ago dspandu.cy retin and to labor       Malnutrition.
forcos of ages 15-61 fmr ecosnoc dependenc   rstlo.         4   Poeroteg earalled of wnrruspondins populaton of sobool 5gm
i PAO reforamoe standards represent pbysiologLoa1 rs                as defined for each comntrY.
qu.irs.smits for normal sotivity and bealth, taking
La   1972;1      1971;   &   1960-72;   4    Urban and mbuo-ban smoes of sdvtoistratlve osntere of ounicipalities and dietriits;
-  /6  Icalltisoof 2,50 or moe;  4  Etisate;  4   1973;  4h   Cities (sit) having 30,OD   or more inhabitiants;
~  tsoodimgIndia. joole po.leton;     B asd on a aamplo tabulation of osnams retuorS;    A    Roononically aotlOe
;4oolatonj -a      R   honahlds;  /   1969;  4   19671 /o    Hospital personnel;   4E   1968;  &    Definition cotnon;
Jr   Urban;       E stlaste based on maqile to' .Iation of oerw.e o-otiro.  Ibt& refer to dosilings; _/t   lnside or ontoids;
Ia   inolodiog semi-psrosnt dasllings;     41  1.970-75; /v    Dtat  refr to honsing units;   a     1965-70;  /Z   aroos
;nrollesnt hchb includes overag   etdenta;    4    The not enrolloosot ratios in 19,71 sor  84.870 18% for basic and
Seeo.odr7 eoosution rspeotively;   /aa    15 years and over; /eb    Inside 0sy;    Ac   ftamd ona20 percenOt saoPle
tob.lation of census roturne..
*  This oparva sith thm Bank Atlas figure of 096530 for 1972. Ths ALlaS fig... does not rofloCt recoot revision in
national a.cont. shich has reslted in 208 increase     in setiatmo of 009.
~' Japso baa beam selected -as an objective counts7' since tie 8ras1il,m Go"rnemot has shown. Partic..l- inteimat in  aPan 's
dvsvlopsantsl eoperience; also, uhs tso gov.rm'staen isv. cooducted joint studies to identify poOsibl. futurm ecwonai
problems of Brasil on th. basis or th.exp4erience of Jspan.
R6 icY llt, 1975



ANNEX I
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DATA                                                   Page 2 of 3
(In millions of U.S. dollars)
Actual          Estimated     Projected      Average Annual Growth Rates         As percent of GDY
1971     1972     1973     1974     1975    1980    1970-74    1974-76    1976-80     1970     1974      1980
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS Li                    Amounts in 1973 prices and exchage ratoes
Gross domestic product             62,710   69,608   77,891   85,369   88,357   121,700     11.0       4.2        7.0      100.6     100.6    100.7
Gains from terms of trade (+)        - 609   - 598      -      - 469    - 965     - 819       .                            - 0.6     - 0.6    - 0.7
Gross domestic income               62,101  69,010   77,891   84,900  105,278   120,881     11.0       3.7        7.1      100.0     100.0    100.0
Imports (inul. NFS)                 5,199    6,357    7,577   10.073    9,183    11,264     24.0      -5.6        5.7        7.6      11.9      9.3
Exports (import capacity)           4,098    5,218    6,596    5,987    6,705    10,784     10.2      10.2       10.6        7.2       7.1     8.9
Resoarce gap                        1,101    1,139      981    4,086    2,478       480       .         .          .         0.4       4.8      0.4
Consumption                        50,437   54,547   61,529   66,578   69,020    91,586     9.7        3.0        6.5       82.2      78.4     75.8
Investment                         12,765   15,602   17,343   22,408   20,910    29,775     22.0       0.5        7.1       18.2      26.4     24.6
Domestic savings                   11,664   14,463   16,362   18,322   18,432    29,295     16.4       6.7        8.9       17.8      21.6     24.2
National savings                    11,078  13,784   15,655   17,722   17,482    27,933     17.0       5.8        9.0       16.9      20.9     23.1
MERChANDISE TRADE                             Annual data at current prices                                                  As percent of total
Imports
Capital goods                      1,241   1,734    2,143    3,108    3,569     7,522     31.0      14.3       16.7      42.8       24.8     36.1
Intermediate goods (escl.fuels)   1,210    1.451    2,233    5,091    4,636     7,343    57.0       -5.4       12.6      35.2       40.6     35.3
Fuels and related materials         316      449      727    2,812    3,022     4,344     63.0       5.6        8.5       9.4       22.4     20.9
of which:  Petroleum               251     344      605    2,495    2,650     3,711     71.0       4.3        8.1       6.9       19.9     17.8
Cossumption goods                   478      598    1,089    1,519    1,221     1,610     42.0     -11.0        6.7      15.0       12.1      7.7
Total merchandise imports (fob)   3,245    4,232    6,192   12,530   12,448    20,819     50.0        1.9      12.5     100.0      100.0    100.0
Emports
Primary products (excl. fuels)    2,315    3,063    4,718    5,606    6,987    13,142     25.0      17.0       14.4      84.8       70.4     61.2
Fuels and related materials          19       36       52       65       70       101     55.0       7.4        7.7                  0.8      0.5
of which:  Petroleum                8       16       16       30       30        40       .          .         ,        0.4        0.4      0.2
Manufactured goods                  570      892    1,429    2,297    2,793     8,231     55.0       22.5      24.0      14.8       26.8     38.3
Total merchandise exports (fob)    2,904   3,991    6,199    7,968    9,850    21,474     31.0       18.6      17.7     100,0      100.0    100.0
Merchandise trade indices                               1973=100
Eaport price index                   67       73      100      134      140       201     18.4       4.6        8.2
Import price index                   77       82      100      145      158       216     14.3       7.9        6.4
Terms of trade index                  87      89      100       93       88        93
Export volume index                   71      88      100       96      113       172     10.0       13.7       8.8
VALUE ADDED BY SECTOR /2               Annual data at 1973 prices and exchange rates                                        As percent of GDP
Agriculture                          8,850    9,212   9,535   10,346   10,760    13,995      6.8        4.5       5.5      14.6       15.1     14.3
Industry and mining                 15,875   18,066  20,776   22,480   23,222    32,805     12.0        4.2        7.7     32.7       32.8     33.6
Services                            25,554  28,532   32,140   35,620   36,860    50,777     11.1       4.3        7.0      52.7       52.1     52.1
Total                               50,279  55,810   62,451   68,446   70,842    97,577     11.0        4.2        7.0    100.0      100.0    100.0
PUBLIC FINANCE                         Annual data at 1973 prices and exchange rates
(Federal Government)
Current receipts                   6,168    7,316   8,629    9,757   10,399    15,540     16.9        6.2       9.0       9.4       11.5     12.8
Current expenditures               3,553   3,558    4,227    4,577    5,032     7,107      8.5        9.1       6.9       5.9        5.4      5.9
Budgetary saving                   2,615   3,758    4,402    5,180    5,367     8,433     28.0       3.5        11.0      3.5        6.1      7.0
Other public saving                3,393    3,669   4,832    5,825    6,348    10,510     15.5        9.0       10.7      5.0        6.9      8.7
Public sector fixed investment     6,404   8,037    8,705    9,667   10,344    15,198     15.8        7.5       8.0       9.8       11.4     12.6
us$ million
DETAIL ON PUBLIC SECTOR             at 1973 prices and ER
INVESTMENT PROGRAM                       1971-74 7. of Tota
Social Sectors                           4,504       11.3
Agriculture                                 187       0.5
Industry and Mining                      6,060       15.2
Power                                    5,499       13.8
Transport and Commnunications             7,384      18.6
Regional development                     1,441        3.6
Other /3                                 14,712      37.0
Total expenditure                       39,787      100.0
FINANCING
Public sector savings                 33,674       84.6
Foreign borrowings (net)               5,762       14.5
Domestic borrowings                      351        0.9
Total financing                        39,787     100.0
LABOR FORCE AND OUTPUT PER WORKER                Total labor force                 Value added per worker (1970 prices & exc. rates)
In millions      1 of total        1960-70     is U.S. dollars     % of average        1960-70
1960    1970    1960    1970    Crowth rete     1960      1970     1960    1970     Growth rate
Agriculture                          12.2    13.1   54.0    44.4         0.7          --        402      --       33        --
Industry                              3.0    5.3    13.3    18.0         5.8          --      2,222      --     182         --
Service                               7.4   11.1    32.7    37.6         4.1          --      1.706      --     140         --
Total                                27,6    29.5  100.0   100.0         3.1          --      1,220      --     l00         --
not applicable
not available
L   The national accounts data were revised in September 1974 to reflect data obtained in the 1970 census. GDP in 1970 has been revised upward
by about 20%, mainly in the industrial sector. Revisions of the data for years prior to 1970 still have not been completed.
/2 Net domestic product at factor cost,
/3 Includes financial investment.
May 14, 1975



ANNEX I
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE AND DEBT                                          Page 3 of 3
(In millions of U.S. dollars at current prices)
Actual             Estimated                                   Projected
1971      1972      1973       1974      1975      1976      1977       1978       1979       1980       1985
SUMMARY BALANCE OF PAYMENTS             3,175     4,272     6,596      8,568    10,614    12,116    14,001     16,422     19,507     23,274     52,488
Exports (incl. NFS)                   4,028     5,205     7,577     14,585    14,536    15.228    16,854     18,683     20,965     24,308     50 264
Imports (incl. NFS)                  - 853     -  933    - 981      -6,017    -3,922    -3,112    -2,853     -2,261     -1,458     -1,034      2,224
Resource balance (X-M)
Interest (net)                       - 302     - 359, - 514         -  650    -1,273    -1,469    -1,747     -2,009     -2,272     -2,503     -3,053
Direct investment income             -  166    - 202     - 220      -  240    -  270    - 304     - 342      -  384     - 432      - 486      - 877
Workers' remittance                      -         -         -          -         -         -         -          -          -          -          -
Current Transfers (net)                  14         5        27         23        40        50        50         50         50         50         50
Balance on current account           -1,307    -1.489    -1,688     -6,885    -5.425    -4.835    -4,892     -4,604     -4,113     -3,974     -_1656
Private direct investment               168       318       940        845       940     1,035     1,135      1,275      1,435      1,615      2,908
Medium- and long-term loans
Disbursements                         835     1,099     1,376      1,800     2,025     2,226     2,443      2,654      3,004      3,397      6,218
-Repayments                         - 441     - 525     - 670      -  720    - 779     -  745    -  793     - 868      -1,062     -1,282     -2,867
Net disbursements                       394       574       706      1,080     1,245     1,481     1,650      1,786      1,942      2,115      3,351
Financial credits
Disbursements                       1,442     3,396     3,151      5,017     3,819     4,509     5,054      5,258      5,386      5,587      1,524
-Repayments                         - 641     - 860     -1,058     -1,300    -1,579    -2,190    -2,946     -3,715     -4.130     -4,500     -4,404
Net disbursements                       801     2,536     2,093      3,717     2,240     2,319     2,107      1,543      1,255      1,080     -2,880
Capital transactions n.e.i.             504       626       377        194             -         -          -               -          -          -
Change in reserves (-=increase)      - 560     -2,565    -2,428      1,049     1,000        -         -          -      - 519      - 836      -1,723
GRANT AND LOAN COMMITMENTS                                                                                                 Actual              Estimated
1971       1972       1973       1974
DEBT AND DEBT SERVICE
Medium- and long-term loans                                                     Public debt outstanding
IBRD                                  256       455       199                   and disbursed               4,122      5,509      6,496      9,096
IDB                                   133       180       250                 Interest on public debt         211        296        440        619
Governments                           199       249       270                 Repayment on public debt        608        758        953      1,081
Suppliers                             324       350       775                 Total public debt service(gross)819      1,054      1,393      1,700
Bonds                                  -         -         80                 Other debt service (gtosa,      607        820      1,175      1,570
Loans n.e.i.                          121       100       110        _        T otal debt service (net)!    1,384      1,744      2,242      2,670
Total medium- and long-term loans     1,033     1,334     1,684         --
Burden on export earnings (%.)
EXTERNAL PUBLIC DEBT                   Actual debt outstanding on March 31, 1974
Public debt service              25.8       24.7       20.6       17.4
Disbursed only             Percent Total debt service                43.6       40.8       34.0       31.2
IBRD                                              708                   10.0    TDS + Invest. Inc.               48.8       45.6       37.3       34.0
IDB                                               252                    3.6
Governments                                     1,830                   25.8    Average Terms on
Suppliers                                       1,008                   14.2
Bonds                                             149                    2.1    Int. as 7. prior year DO & D      6.0        7.2        8.0        9.5
Financial credits                               2,875                   40.5    Amort. as 7. prior year DO & D   17.4       18.4       17.3       16.6
Public debt n.e.i,                                273                    3.8
Total public debt                               7,095                  100.0    IBRD debt outs. & disbursed     347        484        647        872
IBRD as % public debt 0 & D       8.4        8.8       10.0        9.6
IBRD as % total debt 0 % D        5.2        5.0        5.1        5.0
IBRD as % public debt service     4.2        4.8        5.0         4.3
IBRD as % total debt service      2.5        2.9        2.9        2.7
/1 Gross debt service less interest earned on reserves.                                                                       May 14, 1975



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 9
THE STATUS OF BANK "TROUP OPERATIONS IN BRAZIL
A. SUMMARY STATaIENT OF LOANS
May 31, 1975
Loan                                                      Amount Less
No.    Year              Borrower              Purpose   Cancellations   Undisbursed
(US$ Million)
Twenty         Loans fully disbursed                         373.2
403    1965    Centrais Eletricas de Furnas
Estreito I                   Power          57.0           0.2
404    1965    Centrais Eletricas de Sao
Paulo - Xavantes             Power          19.8           0.8
1/
47h    1966    Centrais Eletricas de Furnas
Estreito II                  Power          39.0           1.1
565    1968    Centrais Eletricas de Furnas
Porto Colombia               Power          22.3           1.5
566    1968    Centrais Eletricas de Minas
Gerais - Volta Grande        Power          26.6           1.6
656    1970    Banco do Nordeste do Brazil     Industry       25.0          4.2
676    1970    Brazil                         Roads          100.0          1.3
677    1970    Centrais Eletricas de Furnas
Marimbondo                    Power          80.0         20.h
728    1971    Centrais Eletricas do Sul do
Brasil - Salto Osorio        Power           70.0         30.5
755    1971    Brazil                         Education       8.4           5.8
756    1971    Brazil                         Ports          45.0          38.7
757    1971    Superintendencia de Agua e     Water
Esgotos da Capital           Supply        22.0           16.2
758    1971    Companhia Metropolitana de     Pollution
Saneamento de Sao Paulo      Control        12.0           8.8
786    1971    Rede Ferroviaria Federal       Railways       46.o           5.5
1/ In two tranches.



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 9
Loan                                                      Amount Less
No.    Year               Borrower             Purse     Cancellations   Undisbursed
(UST Million)
787    1971    Mineracoes Brasileiras
Reunidas                      Industry      50.0           1.6
797    1972    Companhia Siderurgica
Nacional                      Industry      64.5           20.5
812    1972    Usinas Siderurgicas de Minas
Gerais                       Industry       63.0           21.7
813    1972    Brazil                          Roads         89.0           16.6
828    1972    Companhia Siderurgica Paulista Industry       64-5           29.9
829    1972    Centrais Eletricas de Minas
Gerais, S.A. - Sao Simao     Power          60.0          40.1
853    1972    Brazil                         Land Settlement 6.7            6.6
854    1972    Brazil                          Roads         51.0           16.2
857    1972    Banco do Brasil, S.A.           Grain Storage 30.0           18.2
868    1972    Brazil                          Livestock     26.0            8.5
887    1973    Light -Servicos de Eletricidade Power         20.0           19.5
923    1973    Centrais Eletricas de Furnas -
Itumbiara                     Power        125.0         123.7
924    1973    Brazil                        Agro-Industries 54.0           48.4
1008   1974     Cia.Hidro Eletrica do Sao
Francisco -Paulo Afonso IV    Power         81.0          81.0
1009   1974     Banco Nacional de Habitacao    Water Supply  36.0           36.o
1067   1974     Brazil                         Education     23.5           23.5
1074   1975    Rede Ferroviaria Federal,S.A.   Railways     175.0          175.0
1075   1975    Brazil                          Roads        110.0          110.0
Total                                      2,1W7           933.6
of which has been repaid to Bank and       2b79
others
Total now outstanding                      1,896.6
Amount sold                   35.7
of which has been repaid   10.3             25.4
Total naw held by Bank                     1,471.2
Total undisbursed                                          933.6
'So IDA credits have been made to Brazil



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 9
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (AS OF MAY 31, 1975)
Year                               Obligor                                           Type of Business                     Amount in US$ million
Loans    Equity    Tota1
1957                  Sieens do Brasil Cia. de Eletricidade                          Electrical Equipment                 2.00         -     2.00
1958                  Olinkraft, S.A. Celulose e Papel                               Pulp and Paper                       1.20         -     1.20
1958                  D,L.R. Plasticos do Brasil, S.A.                              Automotive Parts                      0.45        -     0.45
1958                  Willys-Overland do Brasil, S.A.
Industria e Comercio                                         Motor Vehicles                       2.45         _     2.45
1959                  Companhia Mineira de Cimento Portland, S.A.                   Cment                                 1.20         -     1.20
1959                  Champion Celulose, S.A.                                        Pulp                                 4.00         -    4.00
1966/1968/
1972                  Acos Villares, S.A.                                            Steel                                8.00      1.93     9.93
1966/1969             Papel e Celulsse Catarinense, S.A.                             Pulp and Paper                       4.06      3.13     7.19
1967/1972             Ultrafertil, S.A. - Industria e Comercio de
Fertilizantes                                                Fertilizers                          8.22      3.03    11.25
1969                  Petroquimica Uniao, S.A.                                       Petrochemicals                       5.50      2.88     8.38
1970                  Polislefinas, S.A. Industria e Comercis                        Petrocheicals                        5.50      2.88     8.38
1971                  Oxiteno, S.A. Industria e Comercio                             Petrochemicals                       4.60      1.44     6.04
1971                  Industria do Celuloas Borregaard, S.A.                         Pulp                                 4.90         -     4.90
1972/1975             Companhia de Cioento Nacional de Minas                         Cment                               29.13      3.20    32.33
1973/1974             Companhia Siderurgica da Guanabara - COSIGUA                   Steel                               67.00      6.50    73.50
1973                  Capital Market Development Fund - FUMCAP                       Capital Market Development           5.00         -     5.00
1973                  Empresa de Desenvolvimento de Recursos                         Nickel Mining and
Minerais - CODEMIN, S.A.                                       Refining                          26.00      4.40    30.40
1974                  Industrias Villares, S.A.                                      Elevators and Industrial
Equipment                           6.00        -     6.00
1974                  Fabrica de Tecidos Tatuape, S.A.                               Textiles                            31.00              31.00
1975                  Capuava Carbonos Industriais Ltd.                              Carbon Black                         6.18      1.08     7.26
Total Gross Comsitments                                                                           222.39     30.47   252.86
Less Cancellations, Terminations, Repayments and Sales                                             167.85     7.98   175.83
Total Comittments Now Held by IFC                                                                   54-.54   22.49    77.03
Total Undisbursed                                                                                   55.03      2.142  57.45



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 9
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
(As of June 30, 1975)
There are now 32 effective Bank loans under disbursement:
Loan No.
403/474   Estreito Hydroelectric Project:   US$57 and US$39 million loans
of February 26, 1965 and December 19, 1966; Closing Date:
December 31, 1976. The project is completed and the loan
is almost fully disbursed. Equipment costs were substantially
below estimates.  The original Closing Date was April 1, 1971.
404       Xavantes Hydroelectric Project:   US$22.5 million loan of
February 27, 1965; Closing Date:   June 30, 1975.  The original
project was completed in early 1971 (after a delay of about 18
months).  The project had been amended to include the installa-
tion of equipment for an associated transmission line. In March
1972, US$2.7 million was cancelled from the remainder of the
loan. Ordering and the proposed delivery of the latter equipment
were delayed, but the loan is now expected to be fully disbursed
by April 30, 1975. The original closing date was December 31,
1969.
565       Porto Colombia Hydroelectric Project:   US$22.3 million loan
of October 23, 1968; Closing Date: December 31, 1975. Changes
in the project layout and design have increased substantially
the local cost, which will be covered by ELETROBRAS, without,
however, significantly affecting the economic justification
for the project. Construction work is completed. The Closing
Date of the project was postponed from March 31, 1975, the
original date, to December 31, 1975 to allow for disbursement
of retention payments.
566       Volta Grande Hydroelectric Project:   US$26.6 million loan of
October 23, 1968; Closing Date: June 30, 1976. The project
was delayed six months by spillway foundation difficulties.
This problem and price escalation greater than estimated
increased powerhouse construction cost by 72%, but, as the
original cost was very low, the resulting cost per kW of
generating capacity is still attractive. The project is
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the acti^n being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 9
virtually completed and the fourth and last generating unit
is expected to be in commercial operation shortly. The
Closing Date of the project was postponed A second time to
June 30, 1976 to permit payments to continue on several
purchases already placed. The original Closing Date was
January 31, 1975.
656       Industry:  US$25 million loan of February 16, 1970 to Banco
do Nordeste do Brasil (BNB); Closing Date: December 31, 1975.
The loan has been fully committed. The Terminal Date for sub-
mission of subprojects, originally June 30, 1972 and postponed
to June 30, 1973, was postponed a second time to June 30, 1974
to give BNB an opportunity to submit subprojects in an advanced
stage of preparation. Accordingly, the Closing Date, originally
June 30, 1974 has been postponed a second time to December 31,
1975. Slow utilization of the loan was due mainly to BNB's
unusually burdensome security conditions on subloans and its
emphasis on larger scale projects, for which financing from
other than World Bank funds has been available.
676       Second Highway Construction Project:   US$100 million loan of
May 25, 1970; Closing Date: July 31, 1975. Construction is
over 95% complete and the overall quality of construction and
supervision is satisfactory. There have, however, been sub-
stantial cost increases on some contracts, so that the total
construction cost of the project is now estimated to be above
the appraisal estimate, excluding contingencies, but still
within the appraisal estimate including contingencies. The
execution of some contracts has been seriously delayed by
inclement weather conditions and project changes. Disburse-
ments under the loan are behind the appraisal schedule, due
to a late start of the project, but have improved during the
last two years. The original Closing Date was July 31, 1974.
677       Marimbondo Hydroelectric Project:   US$80 million loan of May 25,
1970; Closing Date: May 31, 1977. Construction work is proceeding
on schedule. The cost of increased excavation and concrete work
resulting from poor rock foundation and increased equipment cost
will result in an increase over the original cost estimate of
US$42 million or 15%. This does not significantly affect the
economic justification for the project.
728       Salto Osorio Hydroelectric Project:   US$70 million loan of April 5,
1971; Closing Date: May 31, 1977. The construction of the Salto
Osorio hydroelectric plant is progressing satisfactorily. A cost
overrun of about US$72 million, due to increased equipment and
construction costs, is foreseen, but this does not significantly
affect the economic justification of the project. The cost overrun
is being financed by loans from ELETROBRAS and a commercial bank.
The construction of the transmission system, delayed to allow a
re-examination of ELETROSUL's market, is proceeding with corres-
ponding modifications.



ANNEX II
Page 6 to 9
755       Education Project:   US$8.4 million loan of June 21, 1971; Closing
Date: December 31, 1975. Progress on the construction and equip-
ment of the project schools is now proceeding satisfactorily.
However, the project implementation is behind the original schedule
due to initial delays.
756       Santos Port Project:   US$45 million loan of June 21, 1971; Closing
Date: June 30, 1979. Execution of the project is now proceeding
satisfactorily, although there have been further delays and cost
overruns which will be financed by the Borrower. DNPVN, with the
assistance of management consultants, has been improving port
operations in Santos. The National Port Development Study financed
under the project is nearly completed. The Government is studying
legislation which would convert DNPVN from a Government agency to
a public corporation.
757       Sao Paulo Water Supply Project:   US$22 million loan of June 21,
1971; Closing Date:  June 30, 1976.   The project suffered initial
delays caused by the State of Sao Paulo not furnishing the required
counterpart funds which are now included in the state budget. The
Government has consolidated all the water and sewerage companies
in the state into a single company, SABESP, and a loan assumption
agreement with the new company was concluded on December 18, 1974.
During the last four months progress has been slow but improvements
are expected with new management of the company which took office
recently. The original Closing Date was June 30, 1975.
758       Sao Paulo Pollution Control Project:   US$15 million loan of June 21,
1971; Closing Date: June 30, 1976. A review of the original
design resulted in its modification to exclude the discharge of
raw sewage including a treatment facility. Bidding procedures are
in progress for other portions of the project. As a result of the
modifications in the project, the loan amount has been reduced to
US$12 million. The Government has consolidated all the water and
sewerage companies in the state into a single company, SABESP, and
a loan assumption agreement with the new company was concluded
December 18, 1974. Progress of the project is expected to improve
with new management which took office recently. The original
Closing Date was June 30, 1975.
786       Railway Project - MBR:   US$46 million loan of August 25, 1971;
Closing Date: September 30, 1975. Implementation of the project
is generally satisfactory but behind schedule. Derailments on the
central line and technical problems at the MBR loading and unload-
ing sites curtailed some traffic flows, but with improvements under
way in track rehabilitation, bridge strengthening and siding



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 9
lengthening, traffic has reached the monthly target level by the
end of March 1975. Except for the construction of the Jaceaba
workshop, the project is expected to be completed by the Closing
Date.
787       MBR Iron Ore Project:   US$50 million loan of August 25, 1971;
Closing Date: December 31, 1976. The project was completed on
schedule, in November 1973, and has been operating satisfactorily
since. The delay in completion of the railway project limited
output to about 80% of capacity in 1974. A 20% overrun in capital
costs resulted primarily from a change in scope of the project.
797       CSN Steel Expansion Project:   US$64.5 million loan of February 8,
1972; Closing Date: July 1, 1976. The latest cost estimate is
US$570 million, an increase of about 32% over the appraisal estimate
due to design evolution, unforeseen site works and increases in
local construction costs. The project is now 65% complete and is
about three months behind the appraisal schedule.
812       USIMINAS Steel Expansion Project:   US$63 million loan of April 11,
1972; Closing Date: June 1, 1976. The latest cost estimate is
US$800 million, an increase of about 40% from the appraisal estimate
due primarily to design evolution and increases in local construc-
tion costs. The project is 70% complete and is about six months
behind the original schedule.
813       Third Highway Construction Project:   US$89 million loan of April 11,
1972; Closing Date: June 30, 1976. Construction works are more
than 80% completed, but are slightly behind schedule; the estimated
total contract cost is slightly above the appraisal estimate. The
feasibility studies and detailed engineering financed under the
loan were started later than planned, but are now completed at
a cost substantially below the appraisal estimate. Disbursements
are lagging behind the appraisal forecast, but have improved during
the past year and are now expected to be completed by the original
Closing Date of the loan.
828       COSIPA Steel Expansion Project:   US$64.5 million loan of June 14,
1972; Closing Date: January 15, 1977. The latest cost estimate is
US$668 million, an increase of about 40% over the appraisal estimate
due primarily to increased local construction costs. This will not
significantly affect the economic justification of the project.
The project is now 60% complete and proceeding according to schedule
829       Sao Simao Hydroelectric Project:   US$60 million loan of June 14,
1972;. Closing Date: September 30, 1979. The contract for the civil
works was awarded to an Italian-Brazilian consortium in May 1973,
and the project is proceeding according to schedule. An anticipated
9% cost overrun is being covered by local borrowing.



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 9
853       Alto Turi Land Settlement Project:   USS6.7 million loan of July 24,
1972; Closing Date:  December 1, 1978.   COLONE has prepared revised
farm development plans whose credit component, to be financed by
public financial institutions, will be significantly higher than
originally estimated, although still low in comparison to other
settlement projects. Administrative delays in the release of public
funds for farm credit and COLONE working capital requirements and
difficulties in recruiting project staff delayed the start of
project execution. Settlement, however, has now begun and the
project should be completed in 1978 as envisaged.
854       Fourth Highway Construction Project:   US$51 million loan of
August 4, 1972; Closing Date: December 31, 1976. Construction
is more than 60% completed but behind schedule. However,
disbursement is expected to be completed by the Closing Date.
The estimated total contract cost is slightly above the appraisal
estimate.
857       Grain Storage Project:   US$30 million loan of September 27, 1972;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979. After some initial difficulties
with the appraisal of subprojects, the project is now well underway.
In September 1974, the Bank and the Borrower agreed on a revised
indexing system to ensure that sub-borrowers are charged a positive
real interest rate. However, in April 1975 the Government adopted
a national grain storage financing program involving subsidized
interest rates. This may significantly affect the progress of the
project.
868       Interim Second Livestock Project:   US$26 million loan of December 19,
1972; Closing Date: June 30, 1977. The project is proceeding
normally. The loan has been fully committed and is expected to be
disbursed as scheduled.
887       Power Distribution Project:   US$20 million loan of April 16, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30, 1976. Principally due to difficulties
encountered in preparing bidding documents and delays in deliveries
of equipment and materials, the project is behind schedule. The
Borrower intends to accelerate procurement significantly this year
and disbursements are expected to be completed by the Closing Date.
923       Itumbiara Hydroelectric Project:   US$125 million loan of August 1,
1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1982. Contracts for both the
concrete and earth works have been awarded and procurement of
main equipment is on schedule. Commissioning of the first
generating unit is scheduled for March 1980, four months behind
original schedule due to delay in awarding of the civil works
contracts.



ANNEX II
Page 9 of 9
924     Agro-Industries Credit Project: US$54 million loan of August 1,
1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1976. The loan became effective
on March 11, 1974. The demand for credit is strong and the parti-
cipating banks are expected to complete commitment of project funds
by the end of 1975.
1008    Paulo Afonso IV Hydroelectric Power Project: US$81 million loan
of June 17, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1978. This loan
became effective on April 15, 1975. A Bank mission recently
reviewed the progress of the preparation and implementation of
plans for resettlement of the 9,700 families to be displaced by
the Sobradinho reservoir. These plans are now at an advanced stage
of preparation, and construction of new towns to house the urban
portion of the population has begun. The rural population is to be
offered the opportunity of resettlement in a promising new agricultural
area in the Corrente River region in the western part of the State of
Bahia. Those who prefer to remain near their present houses will be
resettled in new villages on the edge of the future reservoir.
1009    Minas Gerais Water Supply Project: US$36 million loan of June 17,
1974; Closing Date: August 15, 1977. The loan was declared
effective on January 9, 1975. The State Water Supply Company
changed its name from Companhia Mineira de Agua e Esgotos (COMASP)
to Companhia de Saneamento de Minas Gerais (COPASA-MG). The project
is progressing on schedule.
1067    Second Education Project: US$23.5 million loan of December 27,
1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1979. This loan became effective
on April 17, 1975.
1074    Second Railway Project: US$175 million loan of January 17, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979. This loan became effective on
June 17, 1975.
1075    Fifth Highway Project: US$110 million loan of January 17, 1975;
ClosiDe: December 3         979.  This loan became effective on
May I5, 1975.
In addition, the following two Bank loans were approved by the Executive
Directors but not yet signed:
Lower Sao Francisco Polders Project: US$23 million loan
CSN Steel Expansion Project - Stage III: US$95 million loan



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
BRAZIL
COSIPA Stage III
Steel Expansion Project
Borrower            Companhia Siderurgica Paulista
Amount              US$60.0 million.
Terms               Payable in 15 years including 4 years of grace at 8-1/2%
interest. Guarantee fee of 1-1/2% per annum payable to
Brazil.
Project
Description         Expansion of COSIPA's production facilities from about
2.3 to 3.5 million metric tons of raw steel per year
to produce about 2.8 million tons of flat products. The
new facilities will include a new pier and additional
loading and unloading facilities, additional raw materials
handling equipment, a third sinter plant, a second BOF
shop with two 120-ton vessels and two continuous slab
casting machines, remotoring of the finishing stands of
the hot strip mill, an additional slab reheat furnace
for the 4,100 mm plate mill together with an additional
cooling bed and normalizing furnace, a new pickling
line, a new 5-stand tandem cold reduction mill, a new
temper mill, lines for coil inspection, shearing and
electrolytic cleaning, and associated maintenance and
auxiliary facilities including a new roll shop for the
cold mill, high and low pressure boilers, one turbo-
generator with substation and a fourth oxygen plant.
Estimated
Cost            :    (In US$ million equivalent)
Category             Foreign      Local      Total
Equipment and Steel Structures   351.6      159.4      511.0
Engineering                       15.8       15.8       31.6
Administration                      -        31.6       31.6
Pre-operating Expenses             9.8       22.8       32.6
Construction and Installation     23.3      209.3      232.6
Physical Contingencies            40.5       51.8       92.3
Price Contingencies              117.2      165.2      282.4
Working Capital                     -        14.7       14.7
Total Project Cost          558.2      670.6    1,228.8
Interest During Construction      61.4      156.2      217.6
Total Financing Required         619.6      826.8    1,446.4



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
Financing           (In US$ million equivalent)
Equity
Capital Increase            340.0
Cash Generation              49.6
Sub-total                389.6
Foreign Debt
IBRD                         60.0
1DB                         40.0
Bilateral                   254.3
Sub-total               354.3
Local Debt
BNDE/FINAME                 702.5
TOTAL                       1,446.4
Estimated
Disbursements        (In US$ million equivalent)
Fiscal Year       Annually       Cumulative
76             1.9             1.9
77            17.6            19.5
78            34.5            54.0
79             3.1           57.1
80             2.9            60.0
Procurement
Arrangements        Equipment and materials to be financed by the recommended
Bank loan would be procured on the basis of interational
competitive bidding under the Bank procurement guidelines.
Bids containing Brazilian components totalling at least
50% of the bid value would be allowed a 15% margin of
preference, or the applicable import duty, whichever is
less; the same margin would be allowed for identifiable
Brazilian components of bids for equipment packages with
less than 50% Brazilian component.
Rate of
Return               16%
Appraisal
Report              Report No. 803-BR,dated July 3, 1975.



IBR D-3893R
46'                                  440                                     42°      NOVEMBER 1974
RON ORE      SARZEDO        - RAILWAY - 908 KM.                                  B R A Z I L
BRUMADINHO     - RAILWAY - 887 KM.
ALBERTO FLORES - RAILWAY - 880 KM.
ITABIRITO      - RAILWAY -831 KM.             COSI PA,        LOCATION             OF    PLANT
CASA DE PEDRA  - RAILWAY - 800 KM.
CONGONHAS      - RAILWAY - 794 KM,            AND       RAW        MATERIAL           SOURCES
DOLOMITE C)   ITARARE  - ROAD/RAILWAY  - 577 KM.
ITANGUA  - ROAD/RAILWAY  -465 KM.
ITAPEVA  - ROAD.iRAILWAY -448 KM.                              *      COSIPA PLANT
-~--n-4--RAILWAYS (BROAD GAUGE)
LIMESTONE I')  BRIG.                                                     ---4       RAILWAYS (NARROW GAUGE)
,9. vPoTOBlAS                    - ROAD/RAILWAY - 205 KM.                           Bo-       RIVER
20°                 I() Distance from SAMARITA to COSIPA, by road: 27 KM.  IRONO IO                   STATE BOUNDARIES
IRON R OE.P RO   ORE               ROADS                     .   200-
Brumadinho{P
Alberto Flores
IRNOEQ IRON ORE                         I
CasaL IRNde °PRedro  Itabirito    j.
-,  ,.                     Congonho s PIRON ORE
IRON OEConseiheiro Lofoiete
MANGANESE ORE                          E S P I R I T O
*~. .o      <M I N A S                       G E R A I S                    SANTO
Borboceno
220                                                              ..... .                                                            22'
.. ;_ __ R~~~~10                                        DE  J AN E IRO , - -
The boundarles .shown on  his map do ,o.t
imp!y  endorse--ent or ac-eptance  by  the :
Wo-ld flank and itsaffiliates
,.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~00               -.' .. 
S A O       P A   U l ODE JANEIRO *-                                                                                 B
_'7A.E,A  COVERED
SAO PAUL0O                                                                                  X    <     'E
Brig. Tobi      o                                                         0  20 40   60  80Z0 l                            e
Ita ngua.t.OMITE    ,     ,CapGrne          3,                                      KILOMiETERS 
Itopeva LO MIT
Itaror6      Samarit     OIA.                                            0    20    40    60    80 
DOLOMITE      AsOA SIN       o _ 60                                                   M I L E 5     8o              '-     \O
, -       ~~~~~46°                              44° '\ 



