CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1152 BR
Guarantee Agreement
(COSIPA Steel Expansion Project - Stage III)
BETWEEN
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
AND
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
DATED AUGUST 4, 1975


﻿CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1152 BR
Guarantee Agreement
(COSIPA Steel Expansion Project - Stage III)
BETWEEN
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
AND
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
DATED AUGUST 4, 1975


﻿GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated August 4, 1975, between FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC
OF BRAZIL (hereinafter called the Guarantor) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank
and Companhia Sider(irgica Paulista - COSIPA (hereinafter called the Borrower)
the Bank has agreed to make to the Borrower a loan in various currencies equivalent
to sixty million dollars ($60,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in
the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that the Guarantor agree to guarantee
the obligations of the Borrower in respect of such loan as hereinafter provided;
and
WHEREAS the Guarantor, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the
Loan Agreement with the Borrower and the Borrower's agreement to pay to the
Guarantor a fee of 1-1/2% per annum of the equivalent in Cruzeiros in currency
of the Guarantor on the disbursed balance outstanding on the Loan, has agreed
so to guarantee such obligations of the Borrower;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.0 1. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank
dated March 15, 1974, with the same force and effect as if they were fully set
forth herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements
being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in Section 1.02
of the Loan Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth.


﻿4
ARTICLE H
Guarantee; Provision of Funds
Section 2.01. Without limitation or restriction upon any of its other
obligations under the Guarantee Agreement, the Guarantor hereby unconditionally
guarantees, as primary obligor and not as surety merely, the due and punctual
payment of the principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and
the premium, if any, on the prepayment of the Loan and the punctual performance
of all the other obligations of the Borrower, all as set forth in the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.02. Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions of Section
2.01 of this Agreement, the Guarantor specifically undertakes:
(a)   to make, or cause to be made, available to the Borrower for the Project,
funds amounting to about $974,000,000 equivalent in the form of loans or equity,
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, to be disbursed as required for
the execution of the Project.
(b) whenever there is reasonable cause to believe that the funds available
to the Borrower, including those referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section, will
be inadequate to meet, prior to the Completion Date of the Project, the estimated
expenditures required for the carrying out of the Project, the Prior COSIPA Steel
Expansion Project or other ongoing programs of the Borrower, to make
arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank, promptly to provide the Borrower or cause
the Borrower to be provided with such funds as are needed to meet such
expenditures.
Section 2.03. The Guarantor undertakes that it will collect from the Borrower
the fee referred to in the second Whereas clause of this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Other Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making loans to, or with
the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in normal circumstances, special security
from the member concerned but to ensure that no other external debt shall have
priority over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of foreign
exchange held under the control or for the benefit of such member. To that end,
if any lien shall be created on any public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security


﻿5
for any external debt, which will or might result in a priority for the benefit
of the creditor of such external debt in the allocation, realization or distribution
of foreign exchange, such lien shall, unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso
facto and at no cost to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Guarantor, in creating or
permitting the creation of such lien, shall make express provision to that effect;
provided, however, that, if for any constitutional or other legal reason such
provision cannot be made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of
its political or administrative subdivisions, the Guarantor shall promptly and at
no cost to the Bank secure the principal of, and interest and other charges on,
the Loan by an equivalent lien on other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b)   The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any lien created on
property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely as security for payment of the
purchase price of such property; (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of
banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year after
its date; and (iii) any lien on commercial goods to secure a debt maturing not
more than one year after the date on which it is originally incurred and to be
paid out of the proceeds of sale of such commercial goods.
(c)   As used in this Section, the term  "public assets" means assets of the
Guarantor, of any political or administrative subdivision thereof and of any entity
owned or controlled by, or operating for the account or benefit of, the Guarantor
or any such subdivision, including gold and other foreign exchange assets held by
any institution performing the functions of a central bank or exchange stabilization
fund, or similar functions, for the Guarantor.
Section 3.02. The Guarantor covenants that it will not take, or cause or
permit any of its political subdivisions or any of its agencies or any agency of
any such political subdivisions to take, any action (including action which would
adversely affect the independent corporate structure of the Borrower) which would
prevent or interfere with the performance by the Borrower of its obligations
contained in the Loan Agreement and will take or cause to be taken all reasonable
action necessary or appropriate to enable the Borrower to perform such obligations.
Section 3.03. The Guarantor shall take or cause to be taken, all reasonable
action required to enable the Borrower to: (a) obtain, on reasonable terms, the
credit required under Section 3.01(b) of the Loan Agreement; and (b) apply the
proceeds of such credit to financing payments for goods and services required for
the Project but not financed under the Loan Agreement or the IDB loan contract
or out of the funds provided under the Project Funds Agreement or out of the
Borrower's own resources.


﻿6
Section 3.04. The Guarantor shall take or cause to be taken, all reasonable
action required for the prompt issuance to the Borrower of such import and other
permits and licenses as shall be necessary for the acquisition and importation of
goods and services required for the carrying out of the Project.
Section 3.05. The Guarantor shall take or cause to be taken, all reasonable
action required for coordinating the expansion of the steel production capacity
of the Steel Companies as required by its market conditions, its industrial
development needs and its export opportunities and, to that end, the Guarantor
shall take all necessary steps to enable the Steel Companies to carry out the planned
expansion of their steel production capacities to the extent justified by such
conditions and needs.
Section 3.06. The Guarantor shall:
(a) cause a new comprehensive National Steel Plan for the period 1975-1985
(covering all aspects affecting the development and operation, including pricing
and financial policies, of the steel industry in Brazil, both in the public and private
sector) to be prepared in close cooperation with CONSIDER and SIDERBRAS,
not later than June 30, 1976 or such other later date as shall be agreed with
the Bank; and
(b)   afford the Bank a r asonable opportunity for an exchange of views
on the components of said Plan as and when each component is completed.
Section 3.07. (a) The Guarantor and the Bank shall from time to time, at
the request of either party, exchange views through their representatives with regard
to the Guarantor's steel pricing policies and its plans for coordinated expansion
of the Brazilian steel industry.
(b)   Without limitation or restriction on the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section, the Guarantor agrees, as long as it exercises control over the setting
of prices of the Steel Companies, to establish maximum selling prices for the steel
products sold by the Steel Companies on the domestic market which would: (i)
allow the Steel Companies to earn an adequate return on funds invested in them,
meet their financial obligations and make a reasonable contribution to future
investment for expansion of capacity; (ii) be reasonably related to production costs
under conditions of efficient operation at reasonable levels of capacity utilization;
(iii) be reasonably competitive with the prices for such products in other major
steel producing countries; and (iv) once the foregoing conditions have been met,
share any further declines in the costs of production with Brazilian consumers
through reductions in steel prices in real terms.


﻿7
(c)  This Section is incorporated into the guarantee agreement between the
Guarantor and the Bank, dated June 14, 1972 and designated 828-BR, and replaces
Section 4.01 therein.
Section 3.08. The Guarantor shall cause SIDERBRAS and BNDE,
respectively, punctually to perform all of the covenants and agreements in the
Project Funds Agreement contained.
ARTICLE IV
Representative of the Guarantor; Addresses
Section 4.01. The Ministro da Fazenda of the Guarantor is designated as
representative of the Guarantor for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 4.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Guarantor:
Minist6rio da Fazenda
Edificio Minist6rio da Fazenda
Esplanada dos Minist6rios
Brasilia, Brazil
Cable address:                         Telex:
MINIFAZ                                NR31442
Brasilia
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                         Telex:
INTBAFRAD                              440098 (ITT),
Washington, D.C.                       248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿8
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
By /s/ Luiz Alberto Americano
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Adalbert Krieger
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean


