 IEG
                                                                                                Report Number: ICRR14731

                   ICR Review
                   Independent Evaluation Group




        1. Project Data:                                        Date Posted: 05/05/2015

               Country: India
             Project ID: P092735                                                     Appraisal                Actual
          Project Name: National Agricultural         Project Costs (US$M):                  257.34                257.34
                         Innovation Project
  L/C Number:                                          Loan/Credit (US$M):                    257.34                257.34
      Sector Board:        Agriculture and Rural       Cofinancing (US$M):
                           Development
           Cofinanciers:                               Board Approval Date :                                  08/04/2009
                                                                Closing Date:            08/31/2013           06/30/2014
           Sector(s):      Agricultural extension and research (91%); Central government administration (6%); General
                           information and communications sector (3%)
          Theme(s):        Rural services and infrastructure (29%); Rural policies and institutions (29%); Gender (14%);
                           Technology diffusion (14%); Administrative and civil service reform (14%)

Prepared by:               Reviewed by:            ICR Review                   Group:
                                                   Coordinator:
J. W. Van Holst            John R. Eriksson        Christopher David           IEGPS1
Pellekaan                                          Nelson

2. Project Objectives and Components:

 a. Objectives:
  The two Credit Agreements for the National Agricultural Innovation Project (NAIP), namely Credits 1461-IN and
1462-IN, stated the project's objective as "to contribute to the sustainable transformation of the Borrower’s agricultural
sector from primarily food self-sufficiency to one in which a market orientation is equally important for poverty
alleviation and income generation, and to accelerate the collaborative development and application of agricultural
innovations between public research organizations, farmers, the private sector and other stakeholders" (Schedule 2).

The Project Appraisal Document (PAD) stated the objective as "to contribute to the sustainable transformation of
Indian agricultural sector from an orientation of primarily food self-sufficiency to one in which a market orientation is
equally important for poverty alleviation and income generation. The specific objective is to accelerate the
collaborative development and application of agricultural innovations between public research organizations, farmers,
private sector and other stakeholders" (page 3).

The NAIP was blended with $7.34 million from the Global Environment Fund (GEF). The Global Environment
Objective (GEO) was "to support strengthening institutional and community capacity for sustainable land and
ecosystem management through approaches and techniques that combine innovative and indigenous techniques for
restoring and sustaining the natural resource base, including its biodiversity, while taking account of climate variability
and change" (GEF Grant Agreement).

For the purpose of this Review the Credit Agreement's version of the project's objective will be used.

b.Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
No

c. Components:
The PAD noted that the NAIP "pursued the further evolution of the Indian agricultural research system as supported
in the past by the National Agricultural Research Projects I and II and by the National Agricultural Technology Project
(NATP)" (page 3). This project's components can be summarized as follows:

Component 1: The Indian Council for Agricultural Research (ICAR) as the catalyzing agent for management of
change in the Indian National Agricultural Research System (appraisal estimate US$40.55 million; actual cost
US$85.13 million). This component supported the need for the "Indian agricultural innovation system to be flexible,
motivated, creative and in close correspondence with a fast changing world (PAD, page 4). The increase in costs for
this component increase financial support for strengthening the ICAR and increased training (ICR, para 2.2.3). The
intention set out in the PAD was to finance:
   Strengthening information, communication and dissemination systems for greater dialogue and interaction within
      the system and among the stakeholders;
   Enhancing public awareness capacity and improved knowledge sharing;
   Establishing business development models for technology incubation and commercialization;
   Assessing and adapting the current learning and capacity building (L&CB) and human resource development
      (HRD) initiatives, introducing models like e-learning, distance learning and developing training materials to
      prepare scientists and support staff with newly required skills and knowledge;
   Developing agricultural and research policy capacity, including the gender aspects and visioning skills, and
      strengthening impact assessment capacity; and
   Remodeling, advancing financial management and procurement for the ICAR (NAIP's implementation agency)
   Developing human resources, financial management systems (FMS), and management information systems
      (MIS)

Component 2: Research on production to consumption systems (appraisal estimate US$65.81 million; actual cost
US$46.05 million). The reduction in funds required to implement this component, despite the strong demand for the
establishment of consortia, was reallocated to Components 1 and 4. The specific objective of this component was to
establish market oriented collaborative research alliances for sustainable improvement of selected agricultural
production to consumption systems (PCS).
   This was to be achieved by encouraging different organizations (public, private, NGOs, farmers groups,
    international organizations established in India, etc.) which were involved in producing, harvesting, processing
    and marketing of a particular product, to join forces in a consortium framework and compete for funding aimed at
    improving the profitability and the sustainability of the product’s production to consumption system (PCS).
   About 15 consortia were to be selected from across the sub-sectors of Indian agriculture. The concept was that a
    few but well financed consortia would be able to galvanize greater interest from different production to
    consumption (PCS) partners, and enhance collaboration and openness which would be key to capturing
    integration and economies of scale benefits..
   There would be a two stage competitive application process; first in response to a widely published “Call for
    proposals”, “Concept Notes” would be prepared by several potential consortia. Second, after Concept Notes were
    approved by the Research Program Committee as qualifying for competition, a “Full proposal” including detailed
    cost estimates would be submitted by a more limited number of consortia.

Component 3: Research on sustainable rural livelihood security (appraisal estimate US$70.90 million; actual cost
US$54.49 million). Savings from this component were reallocated to Components 1 and 4. The core objective of this
component was the sustained improvement in the incomes and well-being of farm families in mainly rain fed, hill and
mountain, dryland, tribal dominated and coastal areas which had so far not benefitted from development.
   This was to be achieved by encouraging different organizations, both in the public and private sector with
    capacity to address specific issues in the concerned agricultural production systems to collaborate through
    forming consortia, and make these compete for funding aimed at enhancing productivity, profitability and
    sustainability.
   These consortia would bring together farmers and other client groups, agricultural service providers in research
    and extension, private sector companies involved in input provision, processing and marketing, NGOs, and
    participants in ongoing agricultural development projects.
   Through NAIP they would be provided with the incremental capacity to address urgent R&D issues in a holistic
    and integrated fashion.
   NAIP would finance both research and some development activities necessary for the uptake of research results.
    These activities were expected to focus on improvement of production systems, enhance natural resource
    management (with special emphasis on water), empower local communities, develop institutions, create rural
    employment opportunities, enhance household nutrition and food security and alleviate rural poverty.
   As part of this component GEF financed 3 sub-projects, each supporting one of the following themes - reversing
    land degradation, conserving biodiversity, and reducing climate change vulnerability.

Component 4: Basic and strategic research in the frontier areas of agricultural science (appraisal estimate US$49.04
million; actual cost US$71.67 million). Increased funding for this component was to provide additional funding for
research on promising sub-projects in frontier agricultural science (ICR, para 2.3.3). This component would support
focused research in well-defined areas of frontier science, with strong relevance Indian agriculture.
   Possible areas for research were identified through an intensive process of consultations among scientists from
    India and abroad. Collaboration of foreign scientific institutions or individual scientists with global leadership in
    the relevant areas of science would be encouraged, provided they spend the funds in India.
   Management of this component would be along the same lines as the management of components 2 and 3.
   Selection of research consortia would also follow a two stage process with final approval by the Research
    Program Committee. As a matter of exception the RPC may decide to select single institutes or consortia limited
    to two or three partners.

 d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:
 Project Costs: The total estimated project cost at appraisal was US$250 million. When completed (including
additional financing from a GEF grant) the total actual project cost was US$257.34 million.

Financing: The project's financing came from two IDA credits (US$140.5 million and US$59.5 million) and a grant
(US$7.34 million) from the GEF which was additional financing approved a few weeks after the NAIP was approved..
These amounts were all fully disbursed.

Borrower Contribution . At appraisal the borrower contribution was estimated at US$50 million and this was fully
disbursed. Discussions with the project team revealed that a Government contribution not measured in terms of
money was that numerous ICAR staff who contributed to the project's implementation were paid by ICAR and hence
not from project funds.

Dates: In March 2011, the closing date for the IDA credits were extended to June 30, 2014 compared with the
original closing date was December 31, 2012. The extension was for 18 months because of the larger than
anticipated applications from consortia and hence delays in the final selection. From approval April 18, 2006 to
closure June 30, 2014 the duration of the project was 8 years and 2 months. The original closing date for the GEF
was August 31, 2013. This was extended by 10 months to coincide with the amended IDA closing date. In
December 2013, because of an appreciation of the US dollar increased the value of the original project cost by the
equivalent of $10 million, a cancellation of $10 million was approved (ICR, para 1.9.1).

3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

a. Relevance of Objectives:
Rating - High

The India Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for 2005-2008 outlined how the World Bank Group proposed to build a
growing partnership with the Government of India (GoI) to help India meet the global Millennium Development Goals
(MDGs) including halving poverty by 2015. This project's objective of achieving food security through markets rather
than self sufficiency was highly relevant to the Bank's assistance strategy and it remained relevant to the Country
Partnership Strategies (CPS) for 2009-2012 during implementation and for 2013-2017 at the time the project was
completed when the overarching Bank strategy was poverty reduction and shared prosperity. As the ICR noted, "In
partnership with industries and entrepreneurs, the project supported private sector led growth and poverty reduction
by strengthening innovative agricultural research and development and transferring those to farmers, in particular
those in disadvantaged areas" (para 3.1.1).

Improved food security, based on efficient food markets rather than self sufficiency, was part of the Indian
Government's economic reforms in the early 1990s and pursued in the subsequent Five Year Plans. India's 10th Five
Year Plan aimed to double per capita income by 2012 and agricultural development, supported by the development
and dissemination of agricultural technologies, was to be a cornerstone for this Plan. The NAIP fostered an innovative
engagement with entrepreneurs and the private sector to transfer technologies to farmers and increase employment
opportunities in agricultural production and processing. These objectives were highly relevant to the Government's
                                                                 th       th
own development objectives and they remained so during the 11 and 12 Five Year Plans. The ICR added that
"GEF was also relevant in promoting sustainable agricultural development, by addressing climate change adaptation
in the agricultural sector" (para 3.1.1).

b. Relevance of Design:
Rating - Substantial

The results matrix in the PAD listed the results anticipated from the project's various components and provided a
sound basis for understanding the main elements of the project's results chain and how progress along the chain
would be measured. The monitoring of the results chain was reflected in the results matrices in the project's periodic
Implementation Status Reports (ISRs) and in the ICR's Data Sheet.

The project's activities were relevant to the project's development objectives. For example there were activities that
supported collaborative development of basic research capacity for the agricultural sector through support to
competitively selected consortia of research institutions. The project activities also fostered a market oriented income
generation approach, alliances aimed at improving production to consumption systems (value chains) linked to the
objective of poverty reduction for disadvantaged groups in rural areas. For example, the project supported Business
Planning Development Units (BPDUs) as well as the transfer of innovations and technologies to entrepreneurs chosen
on a competitive basis which in turn generated employment. This market orientation to achieving employment and
poverty reduction was a core feature of the project's activities and results.

The GEF grant funded activities that addressed biodiversity, land degradation and climate change adaptation. These
activities were all relevant to the project's development objectives. As noted on page 71 in Annex 10 of the ICR, the
GEF grant "targeted the most vulnerable and disadvantaged locations (salt affected coastal zones, tribal dominated
mountainous region, and drought prone dry-land agriculture) and marginal and poorer communities (tribal
communities, dry-land farmers and fishermen)".

 4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):
   The PDO for NAIP, namely "to contribute to the sustainable transformation of the Borrower’s agricultural sector
from primarily food self-sufficiency to one in which a market orientation is equally important for poverty alleviation and
income generation, and to accelerate the collaborative development and application of agricultural innovations
between public research organizations, farmers, the private sector and other stakeholders" has, for the purpose of
assessing the project's achievements, been unpacked into two sub-objectives.

The ICR asserts that the project achieved substantially more benefits than anticipated at appraisal due to (a) the
flexible design that accommodated the larger number of sub-projects than planned; (b) the active collaboration of the
ICAR in all aspects of the project including continuous and regular dialogue between ICAR management and the Bank
to ensure NAIP ownership and commitment; (c) adequate and timely support by the Bank on all emerging issues
related to financial management (FM), procurement and ICT; and (d) supportive innovations in market orientation and
knowledge management, in particular BPDUs and ICT-based knowledge management.

This Review will assess the extent to which the project's outputs and outcomes advance these two sub-objectives,
and the GEF objective.

Sub-Objective A: Contribute to the sustainable transformation of India 's agricultural sector from primarily food
self-sufficiency to one in which a market orientation is equally important for poverty alleviation and income
generation - Substantial.

Outputs

    The private agricultural research sector and NGO partners participated in value chain development and rural
     livelihood security enhancement in disadvantaged districts (ICR, para 3.2.2). These activities stimulated market
     linkages.
    Beyond research partnerships through consortia, the project actively engaged private partners in commercializing
     NAIP technologies (and some developed by NARS with no NAIP support), encouraging sustainable
     transformation and market orientation of India's agricultural sector.
    The project supported research and development of value chains for 273 production and processing technologies
     (exceeding the target of 75 technologies). These were transferred to almost 80,000 farmers (exceeding the target
     of 3,000 farmers).
    The ICR states that In NAIP areas there were substantial increases in production of linseed, red gram, turmeric,
     cardamom, and the highly prized “Kardaknath” poultry breed. For a project that has "market orientation" as one
     of its objectives it was clearly not appropriate to expect targets for the production of these crops.

Outcomes

    In targeted disadvantaged districts, the project transferred area specific agricultural and natural resource
     management technologies and generated an estimated additional 113,403 employment years (full time
     equivalent) over 4 years (exceeding the target of 9,000 employment years) for 176,519 targeted households in
     disadvantaged districts. The ICR noted that "While the results varied by sub-project, there was on average, an
     income increase of 165-percent" among targeted farmers in disadvantaged areas (paras 3.1.3 and 3.2.10).
    During 4 years of operation, Business Planning Development Units (BPDUs) supported 1,218 entrepreneurs of
     which 91 initiated new agribusinesses. It was estimated that these agribusinesses, with their products and
     services, created almost 220,000 jobs and benefitted 140,000 farmers (ICR, para 3.2.3). For the reasons already
     given above there were no targets for these outcomes in the private sector.
    The project provided about 9,700 targeted farmers with agricultural inputs and direct technology transfer; about
     90 percent of these farmers were spontaneous adopters via a demonstration effect. According to the final impact
     evaluation, which sampled 20 sub-projects the adoption was particularly high in maize, sorghum, mango, guava,
     saffron, ginger, flowers, and agro-forestry. Most of these farmers, both targeted and untargeted, were linked to
     47 new rural industries established by sub-projects (exceeding the target of 14 industries), through 32 producer
     companies. Over 5 years, the total value of production from these industries was Rs109 million (about US$1.8
     million). The most profitable industries were wood pulp, seafood curry export, fresh water fish processing,
     nurseries, and mango pulp export, which generated about 80 percent of the additional total production value
     (ICR, para 3.2.7).
    Sorghum production, milling, and other processing technologies increased net income of participating 1,050
     farmers by about 540 percent in kharif (rain fed) and 110 percent in rabi (winter) seasons in four years. Various
     sorghum based nutritional products were produced and branded, which was scaled up locally by private sector
     and nationally by GOI (Box 2 in Annex 2). The ICR concluded that "These achievements demonstrated
     sustainable transformation in market orientation at community level and beyond" (para 3.2.7).

Sub-Objective (b): Accelerate the collaborative development and application of agricultural innovations between
public research organizations , farmers, the private sector and other stakeholders - Substantial.

Outputs

    NAIP financed 200 consortia between public, private and other stakeholders compared with a target of 65. Of
     the 200 consortia selected, 139 were competitively selected and 61 were officially sponsored involving public and
     private partners, NGOs and international research institutes. The total of 200 consortia leaders were associated
     with 638 partners (ICR, para 3.2.2 and Annex 2, Table A2.1). These activities facilitated social mobilization and
     technology dissemination.
    The consortia (sub-projects) were implemented in all 29 states of India and 5 Union Territories (out of 7), thus,
     supported all low-income and special category states stipulated in the Country Partnership Strategy (ICR, para
     3.1.3).
    NAIP launched more than 1,155 communication campaigns through electronic and other media - achieving well
     above the target of 17 campaigns (ICR, para 3.2.2 and Annex 2, Table A2.5).
    At zonal and state levels, the NAIP scaled up entrepreneurship as well as commercialization by setting up 23
     BPDUs at selected ICAR institutes (exceeding the target of 5 BPDUs). These units filed 331 licenses for
     commercial technologies and more than 186 patent applications (total of 517 applications - which exceeded the
     target of 30). Almost 60 percent of license applications were in agriculture and horticulture, followed by livestock
     and agricultural engineering (ICR, para 3.2.3).
    The NAIP developed 485 agricultural innovations in frontier science, production, and processing (exceeding the
     target of 155). While the ICR did not define "agricultural innovation," it describes them as the most innovative,
     cutting-edge sponsored agricultural research generated by 61 consortia supported by the project. They included
     nanotechnologies (nano-sulphur and nano-cellulose synthesis, mentioned above and also described in Box 4 in
     Annex 2 of the ICR), diagnostic methods and vaccines (foot and mouth disease), establishment of 4 embryonic
     stem cell lines and cloning of buffalo (Garima-II was produced in August 2010 and gave birth to Mahima, the
     world's first calf born to a cloned buffalo, in January 2013), molecular breeding, genomics, and agro-biodiversity
     management. Approximately, 427 scientific papers were published in high impact international scientific journals -
     exceeding the target of 60 (ICR, para 3.2.6).
    In disadvantaged districts, NAIP transferred 409 local area specific technologies (exceeding the target of 300
     technologies) through an integrated farming system, which offered a package of production and conservation
     technologies in crops, horticulture, livestock, aquaculture, forestry, irrigation, and natural resource management
     (Box 3 in Annex 2 records the rice, fish, and poultry farming system and its impact in Tamil Nadu). 127 high
     impact technologies were adopted (exceeding the target of 80) by as many as 810,000 farmers (exceeding the
     target of 600,000). The extent of adoption per farm varied from 29 to 100 percent (ICR, para 3.2.8).
    More than 3,000 farmer groups, including 376 women self-help groups (SHGs), were formed by sub-projects
     (exceeding the target of 150).
    The overall achievements in agricultural innovations in 3 components were made possible by the project’s
     extensive capacity development programs in and outside of national agricultural research systems (NARS)
     institutions. More than 1,900 NARS scientists benefitted from highly technical training in frontier science, such as
     genetic marker assisted selection, fermentation technology, nanotechnology, genome resource conservation,
     carbon trading, neutraceuticals and allele mining.
    487 scientists participated in a demand-driven international training (surpassing the target of 420), 21 percent of
     whom were from state agricultural universities (SAUs). All trainees returned to work in India (ICR, para 3.2.11).

Outcomes
    As already noted, a hallmark of the project was the close collaboration between the Indian Agricultural Research
     Council and the various public and private agricultural research institutions throughout India.
    Business Planning Development Units (BPDUs) show cased NAIP technologies at the national level through an
     "Agri-Tech Investors Meet" in July 2013. (ICR, para 3.2.4). More than 400 private entities and scientists
     participated in the Meet, where 58 NAIP technologies were commercialized to 80 licensees, which was worth Rs.
     31.6 million (about US$527,000). The highest valued technologies were those developed by frontier agricultural
     science sub-projects, such as nano sulphur (Rs. 6 million - about US$100,000), nano-cellulose synthesis,
     characterization, and application in biodegradable polymer composites (Rs.5 million - about US$83,000), and
     non-structural protein based foot and mouth disease diagnosis (Rs.1.7 million - about US$28,000) - as recorded
     in the ICR, para 3.2.4.
    During project implementation, BPDUs (established in the parts of the ICAR and in some state agricultural
     universities) emerged as vehicles to foster market orientation in the agriculture sector because they also provided
     incentives to the supply-side of technologies and innovations. In less than 5 years, BPDUs generated Rs. 241
     million (about US$4 million) for NARS, from consultancy and license fees (detailed in Annex 2). The revenue was
     shared among research teams (scientists), BPDUs, and hosting ICAR institutes, which further encouraged
     innovations and contributed to achieving the overall project objective of sustainable transformation from food self
     sufficiency to a market orientation. The benefits of BPDUs were recognized by national and state governments,
     which provided Rs.160 million (about US$2.7 million) to 7 BPDUs. Box 1 in Annex 2 highlights some of the key
     achievements of the BPDU at the Indian Agricultural Research Institute (IARI) in New Delhi.

The GEF objective was : "to strengthen institutional and community capacity for sustainable land and ecosystem
management through approaches and techniques that combine innovative and indigenous techniques for restoring
and sustaining the natural resource base , including its biodiversity , while taking account of climate variability and
change" - Substantial.

Output

    GEF financed 3 consortia, engaging 18 institutions which also facilitated social mobilization and technology
     dissemination (ICR, Annex 2, Table A2.1) - which was the target.

Outcome

    GEF reached out to 33,902 farmers (exceeding the target of 2,500) and fishermen, who adopted coping
     mechanisms for climate variability and change by subscribing to ICT-based early warning and advisory services,
     through mobile telephone systems (m-Krishi for agriculture and m-Fisheries for fisheries). For example,
     m-Fisheries provided information on weather and potential fishing zones (PFZ) on fishermen’s mobile devices.
     As a result, their catch, and their potential income, increased by 25 percent, although there was no information in
     the ICR on sustainability. There was a substantial reduction in fishing trips and in diesel consumption with
     positive implications for their incomes (ICR, para 3.2.9).
    As a result the State Government saved about Rs69.9 million per year (about US$1.2 million) on the diesel
     subsidy. These services were developed through public-private partnerships. In developing m-Fisheries, the
     Indian National Center for Ocean Information Services (INCOIS), the US National Oceanic and Atmospheric
     Administration (NOAA), and the Indian Central Marine Fisheries Research Institute (CMFRI) provided relevant
     data for the fishing industry (ICR, para 3.2.9)
    The Tata Consultancy Services (TCS) developed a service package and also invested in a PFZ communication
     network. GEF supported the formation of 178 Self Help Groups (SHGs) and other farmer groups, which adopted
     practices to reverse land degradation or conserve biodiversity, while enhancing their livelihoods by promoting
     indigenous biodiversity and integrated farming systems (ICR, para 3.2.9).
    The ICR also noted that GEF support "brought 8,371 ha under sustainable land management practices that
     reversed land degradation" compared with a target of 10,000 ha (GEO Indicator #1).
    The GEF achievements (based on an independent ICR) are summarized in Annex 10 of the ICR for NAIP ).

 5. Efficiency:
  The PAD for NAIP made no estimate of the project's rate of return. The economic and financial analysis in the ICR
was drawn from an Impact Evaluation (IE) which based its analysis of the project's impact on a purposive stratified
sample of 58 sub-projects/consortia out of a total of 200 (about 30 percent of the total). The project beneficiaries
chosen in the sample were: scientists, researchers, entrepreneurs, extension workers, and/or farmers for
Components 1 and 4, and farmers or processors for Components 2 and 3. The main sources of information for the
analysis were interviews with sub-project/consortia leaders and partners, secondary information and feedback from
the PIU, interviews with participatory and non participatory beneficiaries, as well as the collection of relevant
information from the project's M&E documents. While the information collected was substantial, it is apparent that the
sub-projects/consortia chosen as the basis for the analysis of the project's impact were not a random sample.
On the basis of the information collected from the sample and other sources, the Impact Evaluation estimated
average net present values (NPVs). The NPVs (reflecting the present value of estimated future net benefits based on
benefits observed during the project's implementation) and the actual expenditures during implementation were used
to calculate the B/C ratios. The benefit cost (B/C) ratios were calculated using economic (shadow) prices and an
unknown discount rate. The calculation of the internal rates of return (IRRs) in the IE also used economic (shadow)
prices. The ICR used the IRRs from the IE but referred to them as ERRs. Only for Components 2 and 3 was there
any evidence in the Impact Evaluation (IE) that counterfactuals were considered (pages 128 and 132).

The results of the B/C and IRR analysis for the NAIP as well as for the GEF in the Impact Evaluation are summarized
in the table below.

Estimated B/C Ratios and Economic Rates of Return for NAIP Project Components and NAIP
  Item                                         Financial B/C       Economic B/C        ERR (%)
                                                   Ratio               Ratio
  Component 1: Support to ICAR Reform of              -                1.54             19.26
  Agricultural Research System
  Component 2: Research on Production and           2.12               2.15
                                                                                             a/
                                                                                        51.39
  Consumption Issues
  Component 4: Basic Strategic Research in            -                1.75             57.33
  Agricultural Science
  Component 3: Research on Rural                    2.02               1.45             43.34
  Livelihood Security
  NAIP Total                                        1.78               1.69             40.00
  Grand Total                                       1.79               1.73                -
  GEF                                               1.97               3.19                -
Source: ICR for NAIP, Annex 3, Table A3.3; a/ This ERR is taken from the IRR in the final Impact Evaluation and not the ICR where
the value is 50.08% on the basis that all rates of return information in the ICR was based on the final Impact Evaluation.

There are a number of significant gaps in the explanation of the methodology for the estimates of B/C ratios and IRRs
in the IE and the ICR, namely (a) neither the IE nor the ICR mentioned the discount rate or the time periods that were
used to calculate the NPVs or the IRRs; (b) it appears that the actual expenditures used were not their present values;
(c) there is no mention of B/C and IRR analysis without the project for Components 1 and 4; (d) there was no
sensitivity analyses for the B/C ratios or the rates of return; and (e) the economic analysis does not appear to account
for the costs of adopting new technologies in project costs and if that is correct the B/C ratios and IRRs are almost
certainly optimistic; .

These shortcomings in the analysis presented in the ICR (based on the IE), as well as the apparent omission of costs
of adoption of new technologies in the agricultural sector, suggest that the correct B/C ratios and IRRs could be lower
than those shown in the table above. The purposive sampling used for collecting information may have also
introduced biased results but the direction of the bias is not clear. Nevertheless, while IEG questions the veracity of
the economic analysis, it is well known that investment in agricultural research pays high economic dividends. Hence
the correct B/C ratios for the NAIP and the GEF, while almost certainly lower than those shown in the table above, are
highly likely to be well above 1.0 and the IRRs are also highly likely to be well above the opportunity cost of capital.

It was not possible to undertake an estimate of the project's administrative efficiency because of lack of data such as
(a) additional administrative costs after the number of consortia financed increased from the 65 expected to 200; and
(b) the costs of ICAR staff support during project implementation which were not covered by the project.

Overall, in light of the efficiency estimates for the Impact Evaluation and reported in the ICR, the project's efficiency is
rated as substantial.

 a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR)/Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the
    re-estimated value at evaluation :

                                    Rate Available?                            Point Value                        Coverage/Scope*

     Appraisal                            No

     ICR estimate                        Yes                                       40%                                     100%
                                             * Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.
 6. Outcome:
   The relevance of the project's objectives and its design were rated substantial. The efficacy of achieving the
sustainable transformation of India's agricultural sector from primarily food self-sufficiency to one in which a market
orientation is equally important for poverty alleviation and income generation (the first sub-objective), and the efficacy
of accelerating the collaborative development and application of agricultural innovations between public research
organizations, farmers, the private sector and other stakeholders (the second sub-objective) were both rated
substantial. The project's efficiency was also rated substantial. The project had only minor shortcomings for all these
criteria and its outcome was therefore rated as satisfactory.
  a. Outcome Rating: Satisfactory


 7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:
   According to the ICR the activities initiated under this project have to a large extent been mainstreamed to the
relevant Indian institutions and budgets have been allocated to ensure the continuity of tasks that fall under public
good domain. For the Indian Council for Agricultural Research (ICAR) funding had already been made available or
commitments had been made to finance institutional reforms as well as continued research and technology transfer
interventions for most of the sub-projects in the public domain (para 4.1).

For example, ICAR continues to finance frontier agricultural science research. The ICR states that "To strengthen
research in nanotechnology and 15 other key thematic areas, ICAR has established Consortia Research Platforms
and allocated US$83 million. It has also set up a National Fund for Basic, Strategic and Frontier Application
Research and financed 76 new cutting-edge research projects at a total cost of about US$43 million" (para 4.2). An
additional US$108 million was allocated to the National Fund. Where appropriate , financing of all new research
projects would follow the consortium mode and market orientation.

It is anticipated that funding from the privet sector will be adequate for applied research. The ICR notes that some
value chains would be self-sustaining, "approximately US$317 million was provided by the private sector or various
GOI schemes to sustain or scale up several value chain development sub-projects" (para 4.3). In addition a
sustainability fund of about US$ 1.25 million was established at project closure to maintain rural livelihood projects.
"The sustainability fund and support from other organizations such as banks and insurance companies as well as
SHGs, producer companies, and farmer groups are likely to sustain potentially viable interventions from the
sub-projects" (ICR, para 4.3).

The ICR underlined the sustainability of NAIP noting that it trained "a large number of scientists, researchers and
other specialists as well as in main streaming the establishment of PME cell in ICAR and PME units in other ICAR
institutes" (para 4.4). The ICAR will continue, to strengthen and promote capacity development programs and PME
and has already appointed two Assistant Director Generals for PME and HRD (ICR, para 4.4).

Finally, the ICR noted that the Government of India had requested a follow-on operation titled the National Agricultural
Education Project (NAEP). It is under preparation. The project would strengthen SAUs in lagging states, including
establishment of centers of excellence for teaching, research and extension. It would also strengthen and scale up
NAIP-initiated activities within and outside of NARS, such as skill and capacity development of scientists and
ICT-based knowledge management. NAEP would use the existing NAIP PIU for project preparation and management
(ICR, para 2.5.1).

   a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : Negligible to Low

 8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

 a. Quality at entry:
    NAIP was designed following the successful experience of earlier projects which financed innovative
agricultural research and commercialization, technology transfers to improve rural livelihoods in disadvantaged
districts, and NARS capacity building. These projects were implemented through a consortium approach in
collaboration with the private sector, NGOs, non-NARS universities, and international research institutions (ICR,
para B.1.2). In line with this structure M&E was well designed with two levels of responsibility - namely at the
consortium and project PIU levels.

The ICR acknowledged that project preparation and appraisal underestimated interest in participation in research
consortia. NAIP received 1,475 concept notes from which 200 were selected compared with a target of 65. This
resulted in an unexpectedly high administrative load and slowed down project implementation in its early phases.
The lack of engagement of stakeholders with NAIP and challenges to the results of competitive grants were two of
the three substantial risks for the project anticipated in the PAD. The third was the difficulty of financial
management of a decentralized project. The third will be addressed in Section 11 of this Review. The other two
problems were not encountered because the proposed risk mitigation measures were well implemented (see
PAD, page 13).

   Quality-at-Entry Rating:                     Satisfactory

 b. Quality of supervision:
    The Bank's supervision team carried out 14 implementation support missions during the project's five year
implementation period. It was implemented in two phases (consortium selection and sub-project implementation).
The Bank supervision team therefore conducted two mid-term reviews and rigorous project evaluations in May
2010 and in April 2012. The ICR noted that the Bank team had a continuous dialogue with ICAR management
and supported ICAR in accelerating consortia selection and improving the quality of sub-project implementation.
This was done "by introducing a consortium scorecard and ensuring relevant Bank experts to support sub-project
implementation, including an ICT expert in knowledge management" (para 5.1.2). The World Bank's New Delhi
supported overall project implementation and management, procurement, financial management, and the
implementation of safeguards.

Several national and regional workshops were organized to different aspects of the project. They increased
synergy and interactions among various component teams and consortia. The timing of major workshops was
aligned with Bank supervision missions to facilitate feedback from the Bank team. In addition, the Bank supported
two major activities ("Agri-Tech Investors Meet" and "Agri Innovation Conclave") which were organized to
showcase major NAIP innovations and technologies and obtain feedback from the beneficiaries and stakeholders
(see ICR, para 5.1.3).


   Quality of Supervision Rating :              Satisfactory

   Overall Bank Performance Rating :            Satisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

 a. Government Performance:
    As noted in Section 3b of this Review agricultural research, innovations, technology transfer, and adaptation
                                              t
for poverty alleviation were themes of the 12 Five Year Plan. Consequently the Government and ICAR extended
strong management support to this project. The Government regularly provided counterpart funds although there
were slight delays in releasing the funds in 2008/09 and 2013/14. The Government also enthusiastically
supported international training of research staff considering it critical for capacity development.

A reflection of the Government's strong management support was that the PIU was coordinated by a National
Director (ND) supported by National Coordinators (NCs) for each component, Finance, Procurement and
Administration Units. As the ICR noted, the PIU worked under the guidance of a National Steering Committee
(NSC) and Project Management Committee (PMC), both headed by the Director General, ICAR. The NSC met
10 times during project implementation and the PMC met 35 times. These Committees were supported by an
O&M Program Committee (O&MPC) for Component 1 and Research Program Committee (RPC) for Components
2, 3 and 4. Technical Advisory Groups (TAGs) were constituted one each for Components 2,3 and 4, for peer
reviewing of concept notes and full research proposals submitted as part of the competition process to ensure
quality through scientific and technical evaluation for final consideration by the RPC of sub-project proposals
under their respective Components. The O&MPC met 22 times and the RPC met 41 times (para 6) This was an
extraordinary management effort on the Government's part.

   Government Performance Rating                               Satisfactory

 b. Implementing Agency Performance:
    The Indian Council for Agricultural Research (ICAR) was the key implementing agency. According to the ICR,
there was also broad based commitment to the project throughout the National Agricultural Research System.
This substantially improved and accelerated NAIP implementation. The ICR noted that the "PIU staff in the ICAR,
particularly the component coordinators, provided substantial implementation support to each consortium in
collaboration with (the) M&E unit, such as consortium scorecard development and action plan implementation"
(para 5.2.2).

   Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                   Satisfactory

   Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                      Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

 a. M&E Design:
   The PAD stated that the project's M&E would be in three phases (Annex 3). First, project M&E consultants who
would be responsible for day-to-day M&E operations. Second, project monitoring and evaluation cells (PME cells)
would regularly monitor and report on the project’s physical and financial inputs and outputs, at the consortia level.
Third, the project’s internal monitoring was complemented by an independent final impact evaluation and case studies
(ICR, para 2.3.2).

The primary responsibility for M&E would be with the PIU, led by its National Director (ND) and assisted by the
national coordinators (NCs), and the finance and procurement officers. The PIU reported to the National Steering
Committee (NSC) and the Project Management Committee (PMC) on M&E issues and informed the Organization and
Management Planing Committee (O&MPC) and the Research Program Committee (RPC).

In addition, a Consortium Monitoring Unit (CMU) was established in each funded consortium. The CMU reported
directly to the Consortium Leader. The work program of the CMU will be developed in consultation with the National
Coordinator at the PIU and approved and cleared by the chairman of the CAC.

 b. M&E Implementation:
   During implementation, the increased number of consortia made M&E challenging. However, the ICR reported that
"the project collected and managed robust sub-project data from each consortium, and regularly updated the NAIP
MIS" (para 2.3.2). It is understood that the data were relevant, reliable and timely and used to support the
development of the consortium scorecard, tracking of progress towards agreed benchmarks, analyzing achievements,
and preparing biannual reports at the component level. The ICR also noted that "at the project level, data
aggregation and analysis across components were undertaken (such as increase in entrepreneurs or agricultural
services, and number of female beneficiaries) but could have been improved even further" (para 2.3.2). The task
team advised that an impact evaluation was prepared at the project's mid-term. It covered 58 sub-projects, 37 of
which were selected for detailed case studies: Ten sub-projects were chosen from Component 1, twelve from
Component 2, and nine from Component 3, and six from Component 4. In addition, there also were three
cross-cutting case studies on institutional pluralism, sustainability of Component 2 and 3 sub-projects, and
comparison between NAIP-financed sub-projects and non-NAIP sub-projects. These case studies were used for the
final impact evaluation at the end of the project.

 c. M&E Utilization:
   Substantial qualitative as well as quantitative data were collected and made available at component level, which
were analyzed and well documented. The ICR observed, however, that there "could have been more data aggregation
and analysis at the project level, and more interactions and cross learning among components" (ref ICR para 5.2.2).
The ICR refers to re-allocations of project funds in order to consolidate the project's achievements. There is no
evidence, however, that the re-allocations were based on information derived from the M&E system.

M&E Quality Rating: Substantial




11. Other Issues

a. Safeguards:
NAIP was a category B environment project. An Environment and Social Management Framework was prepared.
An Environmental Assessment and a Pest Management review were triggered. Safeguard implementation
requirements were monitored at consortium/sub-project level. The ICR reported that there was no major compliance
issues and the project's performance on safeguards was rated by the ICR as satisfactory.
 b. Fiduciary Compliance:
Financial management (FM) was identified as a substantial risk at appraisal because of the challenges posed by
decentralized FM activities because of the numerous geographically dispersed consortia. The PAD suggested that
risks would be mitigated by "Computerized on-line financial management system, linked with direct fund transfers to
participating organization;, certification of financial management capacity of consortia before first release of funds;
and capacity building". The ICR stated that "FM training was given to each consortium partner and FM capacity had
to be certified prior to first fund release" (para 2.4.1). According to the ICR "NAIP arranged two tracks in auditing.
ICAR institutions were audited by GOI’s Controller and Auditor General, while other stakeholders (SAUs, non-NARS
research institutions, private sector and NGO partners) were audited by private certified accountants" (para 2.4.2).
While there were no major delays in submitting audits, there were some questions on the disallowance by auditors of
expenditures of $550,000) in 2008/09 and 2009/10, and $420,000 in 2010/11. However, according to the ICR, these
matters were examined and satisfactorily resolved by the PIU (para 2,4,3). On balance FM performance was
satisfactory.

Procurement was also judged at appraisal as carrying substantial risks also because of the decentralized
procurement management by the numerous consortia. The ICR reported that the "PIU provided a detailed list of
frequently asked questions (FAQs) that complemented the procurement manual. It also prepared an overall project
procurement plan as a planning and monitoring tool and implemented capacity building programs, including training of
1,500 officials as a procurement focal person (trainer of training) to support consortium partners" (para 2.4.2).
Decentralized procurement transactions amounted to about $60 million but there were only 7 grievances related to
procurement during implementation and they were all satisfactorily addressed. Overall procurement performance was
satisfactory. The ICR does not mention any mis-procurement or procurement audits.

c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):
There were four positive unintended impacts of this project mentioned in the ICR.

Gender Coverage. The ICR reported that in connection with research on value chains and sustainable rural
livelihoods security about 30.7 percent of the direct beneficiaries were women. They included women farmers, SHG
members and entrepreneurs. About 42 percent were tribal women since most of the livelihoods component was
implemented in tribal areas. Tribal women were also involved in value chain activities (Annex 5, para 5)

Strong Involvement of Private Entrepreneurs . The processing technologies developed by the project were sufficiently
attractive to various entrepreneurs that they purchased licenses to use the technologies (ICR, para 3.5.10)

Potential Adaptation by Farmers of FrontierTechnologies . According to the ICR some of the technologies developed
by the consortia were transferred to 11,415 farmers (mentioned in Annex 2). Given that these sub-projects deal with
strategic research in frontier areas of agricultural science, potential impact on agricultural development is likely to be
very high (ICR, para 3.5.11).

Capacity Development of Young Scientists . The ICR noted that 364 students participated in innovative NAIP
research and development sub-projects, which helped complete their own research projects to obtain M.Sc. or Ph.D.
degrees (ICR, para 3.5.12).

d. Other:



12. Ratings:                               ICR                IEG Review                      Reason for
                                                                                       Disagreement/Comments
                     Outcome: Satisfactory               Satisfactory
          Risk to Development Negligible to Low          Negligible to Low
                     Outcome:

            Bank Performance: Satisfactory               Satisfactory

       Borrower Performance : Satisfactory               Satisfactory

                Quality of ICR:                          Satisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

13. Lessons:
 The ICR included four lessons from the project. In summary they were as follows:


    In an agricultural research and development project , the consortia approach has the potential for
     strengthening overall sub-project design, implementation, and outcomes. The consortium approach can
     increase pluralism, partnerships among institutions, decentralization, productivity, and quality of research.

    In undertaking multi -stakeholder research projects spread across a country such as India , substantial
     capacity building of participating institutions is necessary in sub -project implementation , fiduciary
     management and monitoring . By project design, rigorous FM and procurement training to each consortium
     partner was essential for expediting fund release and procurement activities.

    Commercialization of agricultural technologies and innovations in sustainable manner requires incentives
     among scientists and research institutions . NAIP established 23 Business Planning Development Units
     (BPDUs) to support commercialization of NAIP as well as NARS agricultural technologies by engaging both
     scientists and entrepreneurs in agri-business incubation at state and regional levels.

    ICT-based knowledge management platforms are key public goods investment , which enhance access to
     core research institutions and journals by national and international researchers . Farming and fishing
     communities can also benefit from electronic early warning and advisory services , where private sector can
     potentially play a significant role . Digitization and on-line access to research journals enabled national and
     international scientists to gain latest knowledge and developments in agricultural science.

14. Assessment Recommended?                  Yes      No




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:

The ICR was well organized, concise, candid and in compliance with OPCS guidelines. The ICR provided an
excellent overview, with considerable relevant detail, of the project's achievements. However the presentation of the
project's efficiency measures in Annex 3 (based on the final independent Impact Evaluation) reflected a lack of rigor
because it omitted providing important information on the assumptions used in the Impact Evaluation for estimating
B/C ratios and the internal rates of return. Nevertheless, overall the quality of the ICR was satisfactory.
a.Quality of ICR Rating : Satisfactory
