Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-7197-CD
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
OF SDR 22.2 MILLION
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF CHAD
April 12, 1999
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of September 14, 1998)
Currency Unit                 =              CFA franc (CFAF)
US$ 1.00                      =              CFAF 582.95
SDR 1.0                       =              US$ 1.35
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AFF                Abattoirs Frigorifiques de Farcha (National Slaughterhouse)
BDT                Banque de D6veloppement du Tchad (Development Bank of Chad)
BTCD               Banque Tchadienne de Credit et des Depots (Commercial Bank of Chad)
BICIG              Banque Internationale pour le Commerce et l'Industrie du Gabon (Commercial Bank)
CAS                Country Assistance Strategy
CNRT               Caisse National de Prevoyance Sociale (Social security agency)
CNPS               Caisse Nationale de Retraite du Tchad (Retirement/Pension fund)
COBAC              Commission Bancaire (Bank supervisory body in UDEAC)
COTONTCHAD         Societe Cotonniere du Tchad (Cotton processing and marketing company)
CPI                Consumer Price Index
DHS               Direction des Huileries et Savonneries (Oil and Soap division of Cotontchad)
ENAM              Ecole Nationale d'Administration et de Magistrature (National Administration School)
ESAF              Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
GDP               Gross Domestic Product
HIPC              Heavily Indebted Poor Countries
ICB               International Competitive Bidding
IDA               International Development Association
IFC               International Finance Corporation
IMF               International Monetary Fund
MIGA              Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency
ONHPV             Office National de l'Hydraulique Pastorale et Villageoise (Rural hydraulic equipment
Agency)
ONDR              Office National pour le Developpement Rural (Rural Development Agency)
PARP               Public Administration Reform Program
PER               Public Expenditure Review
PFP                Policy Framework Paper
SAC                Structural Adjustment Credit
SNER               Societe National de l'Entretien Routier (Road maintenance company)
SONASUT            Societe Nationale Sucriere du Tchad (National sugar company)
SOTEL TCHAD        Societe des Telecommunications du Tchad (Telecommunications company)
STEE               Societe d'Eau et d'Electricite (Water and electricity utility)
UDEAC              Union Douaniere et Economique de l'Afrique Centrale (Economic and Customs Union of
Central African States)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1-December 31
Vice President                     .        Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Director                   .        Serge Michailof
Sector Manager                     .        Luca Barbone
Task Team Leader                   :        Alain D'Hoore



REPUBLIC OF CHAD FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
THIRD STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
Table of Contents
Credit and program  summary .........................................i
I.   Political, Social and Economic Background ........................................l1
A. Political Context ....................................I
B. Economic and Social Context ....................................2
C. Prior Experience with Economic Reforms ....................................4
II.   The Current Adjustment Program  ..........................................4
A. Overview  and Program  Objectives .........................................4
B. Program  Implementation and Performance .......................................6
1.  Macroeconomic and financial performance .....................................6
II.  Privatization and Market Reform  Program ..................................                   10
III.  Public Administration Reform .................................                                13
III. The Proposed Credit ........................................                                               14
A. The Credit and its Rationale ...................................                                    14
B. Link to CAS ...................................                                                     18
C. Poverty Impact ...................................                                                  18
D. Benefits and Risks ...................................                                              18
E. Disbursement Procedures and Implementation Arrangements ...................... 19
IV.   Bank Group Operations .................................................                                   19
A. Bank Portfolio .............................................                                        19
B. IFCandMIGA .............................................                                           20
V.   Collaboration with the IMF and Other Donors                              ................................. 20
VI. Recommendations ..................................................                                          21
ANNEXES
I.    Economic Indicators
II.  Status of Bank Group Operations in Chad
III.    Portfolio Indicators
IV.  Letter of Development Policy
V.   Supplementary Data Sheet
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



Republic of Chad
Third Structural Adjustment Credit
Credit and Program Summary
Beneficiary:       Republic of Chad
Amount:            SDR 22.2 million (US$30 million equivalent)
Terms:             Standard IDA terms with 40 years maturity
Description:       The proposed operation supports Chad's adjustment program. The
program aims to restore critical public sector capacity, reorient
expenditures towards priority development sectors and facilitate
the operation of the private sector. Specific measures include
continued efforts at improving government revenues which are still
critically low; the preparation of civil service reform; a continued
switch in public expenditures towards priority sectors including
primarily education and health; the implementation of a pilot
reintegration program for demobilized soldiers; acceleration of
public enterprise reform, especially in the sugar sector and in the
electricity, water and telecommunications sectors.
Benefits:          The operation would contribute to the Governmnent's development
strategy. Direct benefits include stronger growth performance and
contributions to poverty alleviation, supported by macroeconomic
stability, enhanced rule of law, increased public services in social
sectors and infrastructure and a more favorable environment for
private sector growth.
Risks:             The operation is subject to several risks. The first is political.
Though the country has engaged in a political reconciliation
process that has culminated recently with the holding of a
constitutional referendum, presidential elections in 1996 and
legislative elections in early 1997, risks of unrest and localized
military challenges to the current government cannot be excluded.
Social opposition from the small but influential civil service unions
cannot be excluded, but the extensive consultation process used to
design the civil service reform strategy has been most helpful in
minimizing this risk so far. Finally, implementation capacity
weaknesses could cause implementation of the program to stall.
To mitigate this risk, the Government will continue to rely on the
IDA-financed Capacity Building for Economic Management
project.
i



Poverty category:    Poverty-focused operation, supporting policies that will contribute
to faster growth and a shift in public expenditures towards social
sectors. Macroeconomic and financial stabilization, efficiency
gains from privatization, lower utility prices and improved
services, and increased provision of public infrastructure will all
contribute to supporting private sector growth.  The shift in
expenditures towards social sectors, though still marginal in
relation to the enormous social deficits in Chad, is a direct
contribution to the fight against poverty.
Appraisal Report:    Not applicable
Estimated Disbursement:
The credit will be disbursed in one tranche following credit
effectiveness, and will follow the Bank's new simplified
disbursement procedures for structural adjustment operations.
ii



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED THIRD STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
OF SDR 22.2 MILLION (US$30 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE REPUBLIC OF CHAD
1.   I submit for your approval the following report and recommendation for a Third
single-tranche Adjustment Credit (SAC III) to the Republic of Chad for SDR 22.2
million, the equivalent of US$30 million. The credit would be on standard IDA terms,
with a maturity of 40 years.
2.    The proposed operation would be the last of three policy-based lending operations
envisaged in the February 1996 Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Chad. The first
operation was approved by the Board of IDA in February 1996, while the second was
approved by the Interim Trust Fund Committee in June 1997; both were fully disbursed
shortly after approval. The proposed Credit, in the amount of US$ 30 million, would be
disbursed in full upon effectiveness.
3.    The current CAS has four objectives: (i) restore critical public sector capacity;
(ii) focus public expenditures on development and poverty reduction; (iii) create a
favorable environment for private sector development; and (iv) promote the sustainable
use of natural resources. SAC III would directly support the first three objectives, and
help ease Chad's financial constraints in implementing economic reform.
4.    Like the two preceding operations, SAC III is a single-tranche adjustment credit.
The choice of single-tranche operations is consistent with the Bank's policy to support
medium-term reform programs when key directions are well identified, but the precise
design is subject to uncertainties in countries, like Chad in 1995, with limited economic
management capacity and the absence of track record. Each single-tranche Credit
rewards ex-post the implementation of policies agreed upon during preparation. This
report reviews the overall three-year program, and specific actions agreed upon under
SAC II.
I. POLITICAL, SOCIAL AND ECONOMIC BACKGROUND
A. Political Context
5.    From independence in 1960 to the early 1990s, Chad's political history was one
of chronic instability, marked by civil strife, external aggression, and open or latent
conflict between or within ethnic factions for control of political power. Several years
after embarking on an ambitious program of political and economic healing, Chad's
society, economy and institutions are still bearing the legacy of a history of conflicts.
1



6.    After taking power in December 1990, President Deby embarked on a program of
political reconciliation, and set a timetable for the installation of multi-party democratic
institutions. For a few years, the political situation remained tense even as, in 1993, a
National Conference adopted a constitutional Transition Charter and established an
interim legislature.
7.    Recent developments. From late 1995, the political reform agenda accelerated.
A Constitutional Referendum was held in March 1996, followed by presidential elections
in June. President Deby received 60 percent of the popular vote, and thus became the
first democratically elected President of Chad. Legislative elections took place in early
1997, and a National Assembly was installed in April 1997. In the spirit of political
reconciliation, and despite winning a majority in Parliament, the President's Party offered
the Assembly's chairmanship to a leading figure of the opposition, and brought members
from opposition parties to his cabinet.
8.   Despite this progress, Chad's political situation remains fragile. The political scene
remains fragmented, with over seventy political parties. Most armed opposition groups
have returned to Chad under the amnesty provisions of the National Reconciliation
Policy, and have either rallied the President's coalition or chosen peaceful ways to
conduct political opposition. The potential for civil strife remains present, however, as
evidenced in late 1997, when a small rebel group broke off negotiations with Government
and took up arms. A peace agreement was eventually reached in May 1998, but only
after clashes with the military had led to losses of civilian lives.
B. Economic and Social Context
9.   The Chadian economy is predominantly a rural-based, low-productivity, informal
economy. About three-fourths of the population is economically active. Agriculture and
livestock are the main productive activities, employing about 85 percent of the labor
force. Food crops still dominate agricultural production in both the Sudanian (southern)
areas of the country, where cash-earning production includes cotton and peanuts, and the
Sahelian (central) area, where people derive cash income from livestock, gum Arabic and
fishing. Agricultural productivity is low, and as a result, the primary sector accounts for
only 40 percent of GDP. A small industrial sector dominated by publicly owned agro-
industrial companies and utilities, accounts for about 20 percent of GDP. Services,
essentially informal (trade, personal services, transport), and government services,
account for the remainder.
10.   The fourth largest country in sub-Saharan Africa, and one of its least densely
populated, Chad faces fundamental structural impediments, such as its landlocked
geographical situation, a desert or semi-arid climate in most of the country, and an
extremely poor endowment in physical and human capital. On the other hand, its
agricultural and livestock potential is good, though it is unlikely to be realized if
infrastructure and human capital constraints are not lifted, and it has important mineral
and petroleum resources. A consortium of oil companies led by Exxon has discovered
large reserves of oil in the South of the country in the Doba area. A project is under
preparation for the exploitation of these reserves, which would give Chad an opportunity
2



to greatly improve its development prospects. Oil revenues are expected to start flowing
in 2002.
11.   In its first three decades since independence, Chad's growth potential has been
undermined by civil strife and insecurity. Political and structural factors have combined
to stifle private saving and investment, stunt the process of capital accumulation and
growth, and considerably weaken the Government apparatus. In contrast with many
other African countries, however, Chad has for a large part escaped the burden of major
policy distortions. Its foreign indebtedness is relatively small (about 50 percent of GDP
in net present value terms), and its people have developed an unusual degree of self-
reliance. On the other hand, the provision of essential public infrastructure and social
services has been severely curtailed, leaving the country with minimal road,
telecommunications, energy or water infrastructure, and a limited coverage of education
and health facilities.
12.   Chad has the lowest level and quality of electricity and telephone services in
Africa, and by far the highest prices. More fundamentally, it still lacks the most basic
infrastructure backbone for such services, lagging even behind its poor neighbors. Its
paved road network is probably the smallest in the world for a country of its size, with
only about 300 km of paved roads, and many regions of Chad remain isolated for several
months of the year during and after the rainy season.  Its telecommunications
infrastructure does not extend beyond the capital, N'Djamena, and most urban centers in
the country are deprived of basic urban, energy and water infrastructure. Voluntary
parent associations have attempted to supplement the lack of public supply of education
infrastructure and services. Almost half of all primary school teachers are hired, paid and
monitored directly by parents, but most of them are unqualified, resulting in low school
achievements.
13.   Incidence of Poverty. Chad's 7 million people live in one of the world's poorest
countries, with an average per-capita GDP of US$240. An estimated 80 percent live
under a dollar a day. Social indicators better illustrate the dramatic incidence of poverty
in Chad, both in scope and in depth. Life expectancy at birth is estimated at 55 years for
females, and 43 years for males. In 1996-97, child mortality was estimated at 194 per
thousand live births, one of the highest in Africa, while maternal mortality was estimated
at about 830 per 100,000 live births. Half the children aged between 3 to 5 exhibits
stunted physical growth; one child in seven under the age of 5 suffers from acute
malnutrition. Access to health services is severely limited. A recent survey indicated
that 50 percent of women in rural areas are 2 hours away or more from the nearest health
center. Vaccination coverage rates are extremely low: for example, only one child in ten
between the age of 12 to 24 months has received full vaccination coverage, but almost
half of them (44 percent) have not received any vaccination at all. This low national
average rate hides sharp urban-rural differences: the rates for urban and rural children are
respectively 17 and 51 percent. The literacy rate is extremely low, particularly for
women, at about 10 percent.
C. Prior Experience with Economic Reforms
3



14.   Chad initiated a fiscal stabilization program  in 1988, but macroeconomic
management rapidly faltered. Fiscal deficits were at first financed by the accumulation of
arrears to civil servants, domestic suppliers and foreign creditors, or by extra-budgetary
transfers from public enterprises or agencies. This quickly proved unsustainable, and the
fiscal crisis gradually brought the operation of government and administration to a virtual
standstill, generating social and political tensions. In 1992, for example, civil service
strikes led to the cancellation of an entire school year.
15.   By the time of the devaluation of the CFA franc in early 1994, it had become
clear to the authorities that a policy turnaround was indispensable. The Government
initiated an emergency stabilization program with three main objectives: (i) lowering the
fiscal deficit by decreasing real public sector expenditures and increasing revenues;
(ii) passing through some of the devaluation-induced increase in cotton export prices to
farmers so as to elicit a supply response; (iii) and accelerating the process of divestiture
of the state from commercial enterprises. The program was supported by an IMF Stand-
by arrangement and an IDA Economic Recovery Credit. Though macroeconomic
performance was satisfactory, with a return to growth in the aftermath of the devaluation,
fiscal performance deteriorated sharply, with revenues dropping to 4.9 percent of GDP
from 6.2 percent in 1993. The program was declared off-track and a shadow program
was put in place for about one year. A Policy Framework Paper (PFP) was eventually
adopted in July 1995, launching a new adjustment program, and a request from the
Chadian authorities for a three-year arrangement under the IMF ESAF was approved in
September 1995.
II. THE CURRENT ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
A. Overview and Program Objectives
16.   The program's overall objectives, described in the original three-year PFP for
1995-1998 and updated annually, are to: (i) restore critical public sector capacity and
improve public finances; (ii) increase the developmental impact of public expenditures;
and (iii) create a favorable environment for private sector growth.
17.   To achieve the first objective, the Government has taken a number of financial
and structural measures. On the financial side, the Government's focus has been to
improve its critically low resource mobilization capacity. These efforts aimed at adapting
the country's tax regime in the context of a sub-regional tax and tariff reform (UDEAC),
enhance the performance of tax administration, and improve compliance. On the
structural side, the Government launched preparation work on a public sector reform
strategy to address deeper and more complex issues of public sector performance,
including a review of the public sector missions and mandates, its institutional structure
and its organizational efficiency.
18.   To achieve the second objective, the Government has changed the composition of
public spending in favor of key development sectors (education, health, social affairs, and
transport), and non-wage expenditures. One of the key rationales for financial support
4



under the program has been to allow sharp increases in these categories of expenditures,
while moving towards fiscal sustainability, by reducing overall expenditure envelopes in
line with revenue mobilization and sustainable borrowing capacity. To effect this switch
in expenditures, the Government has also implemented, with IDA support, a
demobilization program of 7,000 military personnel in 1997, after a first wave of
demobilization from 1992 of about 20,000 soldiers, with French support, to reduce the
size of the army from 52,000 to about 25,000.
19.   To achieve the third objective, the Government has implemented a broad reform
program, including the privatization of public enterprises and regulatory reforms in the
utility and agro-industrial sectors. It has privatized the two remaining publicly-owned
banks and prepared the ground for the privatization of the large and inefficient public
enterprises in the utility and agro-industrial sectors, such as the water and electricity
utility, the telecommunications companies, and a sugar production, processing and
marketing company. The reform program is expected to increase the efficiency of these
enterprises, and also attract much needed foreign capital and technology. It should
support output and productivity growth in these sectors, lower costs of business (energy,
transport, finance and communications) for other sectors, and strengthen a weak formal
private sector constituency. The privatization program also contributes to focusing the
state on its essential missions.
20.   As reflected in the Letter of Development Policy for the second SAC, the focus of
the program to be supported by SAC III has been placed on five essential items: (i) the
maintenance of a satisfactory macroeconomic and fiscal framework, and significant
progress in expenditure switching; (ii) the adoption of a satisfactory phasing-out of sugar
protection along with the national company's privatization; (iii) substantial completion of
the divestiture program, including of the banks and the electricity and water utility;
(iv) the adoption of a new Telecommunications Code; and (v) the lifting of
COTONTCHAD monopolies.
21.   The program as a whole is critical for poverty reduction and its three main
components are mutually reinforcing. Macroeconomic stabilization has proven essential
for private sector growth and improved programming of public expenditures, while the
divestiture program has contributed to macroeconomic stabilization and helped the
Government to focus on the delivery of basic social services.
B. Program Implementation and Performance
22.   Overall program implementation has been satisfactory. Most major objectives
have been met or are solidly on track. Over the program period, the Government has
addressed a broad range of difficult issues, including tax policy and administration
reform, public expenditure switching, demobilization and reinsertion of military
personnel, privatization of public enterprises and related regulatory reforms, civil service
reform, and the restructuring of the pension system. Significant progress has been
achieved on many of these issues. Areas of slower progress, such as cotton sector or
public administration reform, turned out to be complex reform areas, where careful
analysis was required and a strong consensus among all stakeholders needed to be built as
5



a prerequisite for deep reform. The. process has started and will be pursued in the next
phases of the reform program.
23.   Despite remarkable progress overall, implementation of the reform program has
not been without lapses in content and continuity, in part because of inefficient
monitoring and management. It was uneven in 1997, but resumed at a rapid pace in early
1998. The attention of the authorities was focussed on the legislative elections in the
spring of 1997, and the pace of implementation of both fiscal and structural reforms
slowed down. As a result, little progress was made on semi-annual targets by the middle
of 1997, and discussions held in September with the IMF on a third annual arrangement
from July 1997 to June 1998 did not conclude. The Authorities decided to use the
remainder of the year to consolidate program implementation and undertake strong
corrective actions, in order to ensure a stronger footing for the continuation of the
program into its third year. The program resumed in full in early 1998 and has been
steadily implemented since then, though with continued monitoring problems.
I. Macroeconomic and financial performance
24.   Macroeconomic performance over the program  period has been impressive:
average annual real growth from 1996 to 1998 has been about 5 percent well over
population growth of 2.6 percent, with performance improving sharply in 1997 and 1998
over the two previous years. Inflation, which had jumped to 60 percent on an average
basis in the aftermath of the 1994 devaluation of the CFA franc has returned to its low
pre-devaluation levels.
25.   In 1997, real GDP growth reached 4.1 percent, fueled in part by a record cotton
crop. A 20 percent raise in seed cotton prices in 1996, followed by a further increase of
14 percent in 1997, led to a sharp expansion of cotton output. Food crop and agro-
industrial production also rose, and construction was boosted by an increase in
disbursements under the Public Investment Program. Inflation was checked throughout
the  year,  with  a  December  to  December  increase  in  the  CPI  of
0.5 percent only. Growth, imports for public investment financed by foreign aid, and a
deterioration of the terms of trade led, however, to a small increase in the current account
deficit to 20 percent of GDP, from 19 percent in 1996.
26.   In 1998, Chad recorded one of its highest growth rates, with real GDP increasing
by 7 percent, led again by sharp increases in agricultural production and related agro-
industrial activities, due to record rains and favorable prices. In contrast to 1997,
however, the urban economy, centered mostly in the capital, N'Djamena, was negatively
affected by a crisis in petroleum products imports and distribution, which, in tur,
severely curtailed electricity production, and, as a result, the urban private sector.
Inflation at the national level was limited to 3.6 percent, close to the 3 percent program
target, though urban prices increased sharply during the rainy season, to return to normal
levels at the end of the year.
27.   Prospects for 1999 are less favorable. The effects of the world economic and
financial crisis of 1998 will be felt in Chad through its main export sectors, cotton,
6



livestock and gum Arabic. In addition, since record rains in 1998 had led agricultural
output, especially food crops, to overshoot its long term trends by about 15 percent, the
expected return to normal rain patterns in 1999 should lead to a fall of about 10 percent in
agricultural production. For these reasons, GDP growth in 1999 is conservatively
projected at about I percent in real terms. Beyond 1999, growth should rapidly return to
a solid annual rate of 5 to 6 percent, helped in part by the large investment in the
development of the Doba oil field in the south of Chad, a privately sponsored project fir
the exploitation of about 900 million barrels of oil reserves in the south of Chad, and its
transport to an oil terminal on the Atlantic coast of Cameroon, 1 100 km away.
28. Fiscal performance. Table 1 below illustrates Chad's steady fiscal performance
from 1994 to 1998. Though the degree of fiscal pressure remains small, having reached
7.7 percent in 1998, it is much larger on the narrow urban, formal economy. The extent
of formalization of the economy makes it unlikely and probably undesirable to increase
fiscal revenues at a much faster pace than the average annual rate of 12 percent above
nominal GDP growth since 1994. Even this rate may have proven to be excessive, and
the Government must now find a careful balance between increased tax revenue and the
risk of discouraging a nascent private sector, which operates in a difficult economic
environment.
Table 1. Chad - Fiscal Indicators 1994-1998
In percent of GDP          1994  1995  1996  1997 1998
Revenues                    4.9   6.2   7.2   7.7  7.7
Current Expenditures       10.0   9.0   9.3   8.3  7.7
of which: wages            4.0   4.2   3.7   3.5  3.2
defense              1.9   1.4   1.5   1.1  1.0
Current Deficit            -5.1  -2.8  -2.1  -0.6  0.0
Investment Expenditures     9.1   9.1   9.0   9.6  7.9
Total Deficit             -14.2  -11.9  -11.1  -10.2  -7.9
29.   Much of the increase in revenues, however, has been due to a broadening of the
tax base and an increase in productivity (compliance), brought about by significant
improvement in tax administration, especially at customs, and the introduction of new tax
regimes for informal operators, better suited to their limited tax filing and accounting
capabilities. In particular, the Government has introduced a simplified "synthetic tax" in
its 1998 Finance Law, in replacement of the standard turnover tax, various licensing taxes
and the corporate income tax for companies with an annual turnover lower than
FCFA 40 million. A new fiscal regime for previously-exonerated imports under donor-
financed projects, which represent about 30 percent of total merchandise imports and a
major potential loophole for importers, was introduced in September 1997 and, after
initial technical difficulties, has started to operate satisfactorily.
7



30.   Reduction in expenditures from 10 percent of GDP in 1994 to 7.7 percent in 1998
correspond to a fall of 9 percent in real terms over the period. Much of this reduction has
been due to a freeze in nominal wages and tight constraint on hiring in the civil service,
control over non-priority sector expenditures, and a decline in the defense budget, which
was made possible by the Government's demobilization program. This fiscal contraction
has generated for the first time in decades a current budget surplus of half a percentage
point of GDP in 1998.
31.   Fiscal sustainability. Since almost 60 percent of the total deficit is financed by
grants and the remainder is financed by concessional loans (with an estimated average
70 percent grant element), the impact of large overall deficits on debt accumulation is
small. In 1997 and 1998, nominal indebtedness increased by, respectively, 1.2 and
1.1 percent of GDP in present value terms, while nominal GDP increased, respectively,
by 6.9 and 10.7 percent. The deficit now reflects, for the most part, expenditures under
donor-financed investment projects. Thus, the issue of fiscal sustainability essentially
revolves around the quality of public expenditure, a question which the Government has
now placed at the center of its agenda, in anticipation of expanded resources starting in
2002 with the advent of oil exports.
32.   Expenditure switching. The share of expenditures for the development sectors
(education, health and social affairs, agriculture and livestock, environment, and
transport) has increased from about 65 percent of total expenditures, current and
investment, in 1994 to 72 percent in 1998.  When one excludes donor-financed
expenditures, the share of development expenditures rose from 35 percent in 1994 to
47 percent in 1998. The clearance of all foreign arrears at the end of 1997 and a sharp
increase in counterpart funding over the program period, from FCFA 320 million in
1995 to about FCFA 3 billion in 1998, has allowed a resumption in donor-financed
projects. The Government has also limited hiring into the civil service to education and
health, and increased the non-wage budget of priority ministries.
33.   The 1997 and 1998 budget allocations for non-wage current expenditures in
education, health, social affairs and transport were increased by, respectively 35 and
45 percent in nominal terms, well above the program target of 20 percent in real terms.
These budgetary allocations were executed almost in full in their respective budgetary
years. Sharp improvement in funding to priority sectors has been consistent throughout
the program: for example, in 1994, the non-wage budget of the education ministry was
less than US$1 million, a level at which questions of efficiency or equity in the
management of social sector expenditures had limited relevance; five years later, it has
been multiplied by six.
34.   Hiring into the civil service has been limited to primary and secondary school
teachers, social workers, and primary health services personnel.  In 1998, the
Government added 400 new primary school teachers, or about 8 percent of the total
number of civil-service teachers, and 120 secondary school teachers, and about 90 health
services workers in primary health facilities, or about 3 percent of the total.
35.   In both sectors, Chad is well below international or regional norms: for example,
it had only 184 doctors in 1998, or 1 per 38,000 people. While it is clear that additional
8



staff is needed, it is important to strike a fine balance between long term sustainability
and maintaining adequate staff quality and capacity. Despite a decrease in the ratio of
average civil service wage to per-capita GDP from about 12 in 1993 to 7 in 1998, the
civil service salary schedule remains unaligned with market indicators. Fully half of all
primary school teachers in Chad are hired and/or paid by local communities or parent
associations at salaries well below those in the civil service for comparable positions.
Most of them are unqualified, however. An aggressive long-term strategy to increase
enrollment rates, while decreasing already high pupil-teacher ratios must face the fact
that the required teacher body would be considerably more expensive at civil service than
market wages. This is one among several issues to which the ongoing revision of the
education strategy must provide a satisfactory answer. Similar issues arise in other
sectors, such as health and rural development.
36.   Defense expenditures have been sharply reduced through a significant cut in the
size of the army to a level deemed adequate by external military advisers, after taking
into account the country's overall security situation.  Also, the Government has
maintained a tight control over military pay. During recent years Chad's army has been
called upon twice to help restore peace in neighboring countries. In 1996-97 Chad
contributed to the UN-sponsored peace force in the Central African Republic at no cost to
the national budget. More recently, together with other African countries Chad sent a
military force to the Democratic Republic of Congo, which prompted donors to raise
concerns on the fiscal impact of this initiative. In response to these concerns, the
Government has emphasized that the size of this force is limited to 1000 troops, and that
its cost is entirely supported by an external party.
37.   Available indicators show a considerable improvement in social indicators.
Primary school enrollment ratios increased sharply over the program period, from less
than 45 percent in 1995 to an estimated 63 percent in 1998, though under deteriorating
teacher-pupil ratios.  Child mortality has reportedly decreased from about 230 per
1000 live births in 1993 (the time of the last national census) to 194 in 1996. The
increase in public expenditure has been a factor in these improvements, albeit a minor
one.  More importantly, political stability and the return to normalcy in public
administration have allowed Chad to catch up the ground it had lost during earlier crises.
38.   The sustainable financing of road maintenance remains a problem, however. The
1998 Finance Law extended indirect taxation to transport services, on top of road user
charges already levied on them. This led private transporters to go on strike against the
sharp increase in their tax rates. Negotiations eventually led to a halving of user charges,
and, as a result, to a significant under-funding of planned road maintenance expenditures
for 1998. The Government has recently confirmed its intention to revise in depth the
mechanism for financing road maintenance, to make it genuinely sustainable and less
prone to crisis. To help the Government in this undertaking and smooth the transition to
full funding of routine road maintenance by internal sources in 2000, an increase in the
amount of SAC III, by an amount equivalent to the shortfall in 1999, has been proposed.
This would enable Chad to avoid losing ground in a crucial area for future growth and
having to pay much more in the future to make up for lack of maintenance.
9



II. Privatization and Market Reform Program
39.  In 1992, Chad adopted a Privatization Framework law in which 42 public
enterprises or agencies were slated for divestiture, liquidation or restructuring. Eight
enterprises were later added to the list, which included a number of small commercial
enterprises, the three public banks, the insurance company, the three utilities (one in
electricity and water, two in telecommunications), and the two largest agro-industries
involved in sugar and cotton. The Government also undertook deep regulatory reforms to
open key sectors to competition, while vesting in the State essential regulatory functions.
40.   At this point in Chad's reform program, with the exception of the cotton sector,
which raises specific and complex issues, most enterprises have been or are on the verge
of being privatized, and most regulatory reforms have been adopted into law. Though
some of the most difficult steps of the process have been taken, they will take time to
translate into significant improvement in the every day life of many Chadians. In
addition, several measures are necessary but not sufficient steps to ensuring outcomes. In
the utilities sector, for example, public support to private investors may turn out to be
necessary to permit Chad to catch up on its enormous deficits.
Banking sector
41.   The Government completed its privatization agenda in the banking sector in
February 1999. A private bank (BIAT), that had been placed under judicial control after
the bankruptcy of the Meridien banking group and in which the government had acquired
a majority interest, was sold to a foreign private banking group in December 1997. The
largest Chadian commercial bank (BTCD) was also sold to a French-backed Gabonese
bank (BICIG) in December 1997. However, the sub-regional banking supervision
agency, COBAC, disallowed the sale on grounds that the foreign minority shareholder in
the Gabonese bank, which had owned a bank in Chad that had failed in the recent past,
had not complied, as equity holder, with sub-regional requirements for bank failure
resolution. After protracted negotiation throughout 1998, the operation was finally
cancelled. The Chadian authorities promptly turned to the second bidder and
successfully concluded negotiations in February 1999. Finally, negotiations for the sale
of a controlling stake in the last public bank (BDT) to a private Cameroonian holding
company were successfully completed in December 1998.
Divestiture from Commercial Enterprises
42.   Small Businesses. The Government pursued the privatization of small and
medium enterprises in 1997 and 1998. A small hydraulic-equipment agency (ONHPV)
was privatized, and the Government concluded negotiations with a private hotel chain for
a management contract for the publicly-owned hotel in N'Djamena (Hotel du Chari). A
call for bids for the national slaughterhouse (AFF) was issued in September 1998.
Preliminary technical work for the privatization of a small enterprise in the transport
sector (the road maintenance company SNER), though delayed from its original calendar,
is ongoing. The Bank recently advised Government to put the privatization of SNER on
hold, pending the resolution of technical issues that have not been appropriately
addressed by the Government's advisers. The government has decided to liquidate its
10



national airline company, Air Tchad, and intends to submit legislation to Parliament
liberalizing air transport.
43.   Sugar company.  SONASUT is the country's second largest commercial
enterprise, and supplies over 70 percent of the sugar market from its own production or
transformation activities. It enjoyed a high level of protection. Its privatization has
therefore much political and social significance. A detailed diagnostic study of the sector
was completed in December 1997, demonstrating the potential for establishing the
company's long term viability in an unprotected market environment. On this basis, the
Government formally approved a privatization plan that would allow a strategic investor,
to be selected on a competitive basis, to inject fresh capital in the company and increase
its efficiency. The Government has also initiated a plan to reduce the level of protection
of the domestic sugar market with a first cut of 4 percent. Under the plan, the new
investor will be allowed adequate time to undertake the investment program needed to
boost the company's efficiency. After a long selection process, an investment bank was
hired to effect the last phase of the privatization, with a view to issue intemational
competitive bids for SONASUT by June 1999.
Utilities
44.   The high cost and low reliability of utilities is a major constraint to private sector
development in Chad. The Government has launched a program aimed at improving the
efficiency in the supply of water, electricity and telecommunications services, through
the privatization of the three companies concerned.
45.   Electricity and water utility. The process for the privatization of the water and
electricity utility accelerated in July 1997 with the issuance of bids for the pre-
qualification of private operators in electricity production and distribution, and the
adoption of a decree providing for the assumption by the Govenmment of the company's
long-term debts. A new Electricity and Water Distribution Code was drafted to redesign
the regulatory structure of the sector. Draft concession agreements were issued to the
two pre-qualified companies in September 1998 with an invitation to bid, and preliminary
negotiations started in December 1998. The company is expected to be put under private
management in 1999.
46.   The commitment to privatization was reinforced after a long crisis in the energy
sector, during which the Government's ill-conceived attempts to address the crisis ended
up worsening its effects. The crisis originated in the collapse of Chad's traditional
sources of petroleum products, the informal markets of neighboring Nigeria. Attempts to
control and organize the procurement of petroleum products directly by Government, and
to impose restrictions on importers to ensure a steady supply to the electric utility, rapidly
led to severe shortages of fuel in the capital and throughout the country. Donor advice,
and, more importantly, the evidence that these policies were failing to generate their
intended objective, led the Government to revise its position and embrace a more liberal
approach based on privatization.
47.   Telecommunications sector. New Telecommunications and Postal Services
Laws were approved by Parliament in July 1998. These new laws grant a limited five-
11



year exclusivity for fixed telephone services to a new company, SOTELTCHAD, to be
created out of the merger of the telecommunications arm of the local postal and telecom
agency, and the international telephone services company. It also provides for a reform
of the regulatory institutions in the sector, and opens up to private competition the other
segments of the telecom market in Chad. In this respect, in December 1998, a call for
bids was issued for the granting of a license to operate a cellular phone service in Chad
on the basis of extensive licensing agreements as envisaged under the new
Telecommunications law. The operation of this autonomous license will not only rapidly
respond to the telecommunication deficit in Chad, but also and more importantly will
create competitive pressure on the main operator for service and quality expansion and
lower prices. The Government has confirmed its commitment to privatize the new
telecommunications company once the merger is completed, and has already launched
the preliminary technical and financial work.
Cotton Sector
48.   Cotton is one of the most important sectors in Chad, given its contribution to
fiscal revenues, exports and salaried employment, as well as its importance as a major
source of cash income for more than 350,000 farming households.
49.  In mid-1997, the Government adopted a reform  agenda with three main
components. First, a reform of the seed cotton pricing mechanism was introduced to give
farmers a larger share of international prices and to make adjustments to world conditions
in a more transparent and automatic fashion. As a result of these changes, it is expected
that the farmers' share in international prices will increase from about 46 percent in
1996-97 to 54 percent in 1998-99. Second, taxation on the purchase of farm implements
from the public rural development agency (ONDR) was reduced. And third, the Cotton
policy committee was reorganized to include farmers' representatives. The Government
also decided to allow COTONCHAD to implement a pilot decentralization program for
the management of its gins and to look at the opportunity to spin-off non-core activities
(oil and soap manufacturing). Consultants were hired in December 1998 to prepare an
action plan for this divestiture.
50.   The reform program also included the lifting of the de jure monopolies enjoyed
by COTONCHAD in primary marketing, ginning and export marketing.  Sharp
divergences emerged, however, among key donors in the sector on this aspect of the
reform program, and a consensus was eventually reached that the Government would
temporarily suspend its plans to lift the monopolies, until the basis for coordinated
support to the Government's strategy could be more firmly established. Discussions on
the sector reform program resumed in late 1998. The Government has indicated that all
existing legal texts granting COTONTCHAD its exclusive rights have in fact become
void. Though this legal vacuum in effect removes barriers to entry in the sector, the
Government is concerned that transitional issues have not yet been fully addressed, and
that deeper internal consensus needs to obtain before moving ahead with ambitious
reform plans. It has requested the Bank's and other donors' assistance to help do more
analytical work and re-design a comprehensive reform framework. In view of the
expected impact of the reforms on a large part of Chad's population, the donors agreed
that more time was needed to define and better internalize them.
12



III. Public Administration Reform
51.   In April 1997, the Government appointed a National Civil Service Reform
Committee and gave it the broad mandate to undertake a thorough examination of civil
service performance issues and  suggest a reform  agenda.   After preliminary
consultations, it was decided that the diagnosis and reform exercise would be further
broadened to include a larger array of institutional, organizational and managerial issues
related to public administration performance. The diagnosis, in particular, would focus
on: (i) role of the state and the institutional and legal framework of the public
administration system; (ii) pay reform and professionalism; (iii) human, financial and
material resources of the administration; and (iv) participation of women in public
administration.
52.   Shortly afterwards, two committees were established to manage the reform
process, a Steering Committee at the political level, comprising five ministers, including
the Ministers of Finance, Planning. Civil Service and the Secretary General of the
Govermnent. and a Technical Committee (TC) chaired by the Director of the National
Administration School (Ecole Nationale d'Administration et de Magistrature. ENAM)
and comprising 12 members drawn from different ministries and agencies. A process has
been launched to explain the objectives of the reform exercise to a cross-section of
stakeholders, including civil servants, representatives of the private and voluntary sectors,
academia and the media. In July 1998 three seminars were organized to discuss a draft
Public Administration Reform Program (PARP). The Cabinet approved the final Report
and adopted a first set of recommendations in December 1998. These included the
establishment of a permanent PARP implementation unit for monitoring and evaluation;
the development of options for decentralization, which has turned out to be the most
critical, as well as most complex, institutional issue in the Chadian public administration;
and basic personnel management reforms, such as a revision of pay policy, the
harmonization of personnel and payroll data, and the revision of the statutes of the civil
service (civil service code).
53.   More importantly, the process has firmly established public administration reform
at the center of the Government's long term structural reform agenda. Much work
remains to be done, however, to properly identify and sequence key actions. Many of the
key issues of public administration reform are central to sector strategies in health,
education and rural development and must be adequately addressed for preparing Chad to
manage effectively the resources expected from oil exploitation.
III. THE PROPOSED CREDIT
A. The Credit and its Rationale
54.   The proposed Credit is a single-tranche operation, with the proceeds to be
disbursed against measures taken up-front. It would be the last in a series of three
operations envisaged under the 1996 CAS to support the Government's current
adjustment program.
13



55.  The financial rationale for the Credit is essentially budgetary. Despite significant
progress towards fiscal soundness, the financial program has identified non-recurrent
budgetary financing gaps. Budgetary financing gaps originate in the need (i) to service
exte7nal debt, which accounts for about 21 percent of total revenues; (ii) to reduce arrears
tovi-ards foreign and domestic suppliers accumulated before the onset of the program; and
(iii) to pay for the fiscal impact of structural reforms, such as debt workouts of privatized
public enterprises, mitigation of the social costs of privatization, funding for reintegration
of demobilized military personnel and for the restructuring of the social security system.
Financial audits of major public enterprises have invariably revealed large public
liabilities, often underestimated, that need to be dealt with directly or indirectly for
reforms to proceed.
56.   Exceptional financing of these budgetary gaps would aliow the Government to
finance a higher level of priority sector expenditures, while improving resource
mobilization and constraining the growth of non-priority expenditures.  The CFA
counterpart of the Credit's proceeds, equivalent to about 8.5 percent of total Government
outlays (including amortization of debt and repayment of internal arrears), would help
close the 1999 budget financing gap, along with financial assistance from other donors
and the IMF, and ease the Government's cash position throughout the year.
57.   In keeping with the requirements for the processing of single-tranche operations,
the presentation of the proposed operation was made contingent on (i) the maintenance of
a satisfactory macroeconomic and fiscal framework, as was recently attested by the IMF
in concluding the second semi-annual arrangement of the third year of Chad's first
arrangement under the ESAF, and (ii) significant progress in the implementation of
measures envisaged in the Government's Letter of Development Policy for SAC II.
Specific measures include the following:
(a) significant progress in expenditure switching:
1.   Adoption by Government of 1998 and 1999 Budgets, with (i) increases in
appropriations for non-wage current expenditures to the Education, Health, Social Action
and Transport and Public Works ministries of at least 20 percent in real terms (actual
appropriations were significantly larger); (ii) provisions for the recruitment of at least
400 primary school teachers, 120 secondary school teachers and 90 health services
personnel, while maintaining the recruitment freeze in other ministries; (iii) adequate
appropriation for the payment of counterpart funds to foreign-financed investment
projects.
2.   Submission to the Association for review and approval of the 1998-2000 and
1999-2001 Public Investment Programs, including the 1998 and 1999 Investment
Budgets.
3. Submission to the Association of Budget Execution Reports and quarterly
Program Implementation Reports on an ongoing basis.
14



(b) the adoption of a satisfactory phasing-out of -sugar protection along with the
national company's privatization:
4.    Initial reduction in sugar protection and recruitment of an investment bank
to prepare and implement the privatization of the National Sugar Company (December
1998).
(c) substantial completion of the divestiture program, including the banks and the
electricity and water utility:
5.    Issue of call for bids on an ICB basis for the sale of shares of the Banque
Tchadienne de Depots et de Credit (BTCD) (October 1997).
6.    Issue of call for bids on an ICB basis for the pre-qualification of private
companies for the granting of a concession agreement for the Societe Tchadienne d'Eau
et d'Electricite (STEE) (June 1998); submission to pre-qualified companies of draft
Concession Agreement for STEE (September 1998); adoption by Government of a draft
Water Code and a draft Electricity Production, Transportation and Distribution Law
acceptable to the Association (January 1999).
7.    Granting of a management contract for Hotel du Chari (January 1999).
8.    Completion of public offering of shares in Office National d'Hydraulique
Pastorale et Villageoise (ONHPV) (June 1997).
9.  Invitation  for bids for a management contract for the Farcha
Slaughterhouse ("Abattoirs Frigorifiques de Farcha" , AFF) (September 1998).
(d) adoption of a new Telecommunications Code and progress in overall sector
reform:
10.   Adoption by Government of new Laws for Telecommunications and
Postal Services acceptable to the Association (July 1998). The two laws were submitted
and approved by Parliament in August 1997.
11.   Call for bids for the granting of a license to operate a cellular
telecommunications service (December 1998).
(e) lifting of COTONTCHAD's monopolies and progress in overall sector reform:
12.   Recruitment of a consulting firm for the preparation of an action plan for
the separation and privatization of the Oil and Soap Division ("Direction des Huileries et
Savonneries", DHS) of the national Cotton Company (COTONTCHAD) (initiated in
mid-i 998).
13.  Increase in farmers' share of world cotton price to 54 percent in 1998-99
from 49.5 percent in 1997-98.
15



58.   Other reforn measures, covering fiscal reforms, civil service reform, social
security and private sector development, include:
14. Preparation by the Technical Commission and adoption by Governnent
(December 1998), of a Public Administration Diagnosis and Reform Strategy Report, and
an Action Plan.
15. Adoption in the 1998 Finance Law of the "Imp6t General Liberatoire"
(synthetic tax) to replace the "Patente" (licence tax), "Taxe sur le Chiffre d'Affaires"
(TCA, turnover tax) and Corporate Income Tax for businesses with turnover lower than
CFAF40 million.
16. Preparation of an action plan for the simplification and reduction in number
of business licensing and other administrative procedures (submitted to IDA in January
1 999).
17. Preparation of a draft Investment Charter compatible with UDEAC taxation,
customs and investment reform (submitted to IDA in December 1998).
18. Completion of the audits of the Social Security companies (Caisse Nationale
de Retraite du Tchad (CNRT) et Caisse Nationale de Prevoyance Sociale (CNPS)
(November 1998); both audits were submitted to IDA.
59.   Section II has identified areas where program targets have not yet been fully
achieved, and the reasons for these delays. They include: (i) the privatization of the sugar
processing company, SONASUT, and (ii) the lifting of COTONTCHAD monopolies (or
monopsonies) on primary marketing of seed cotton, ginning and export marketing. In the
first case, the process is now well advanced, and the Government expects bids in the
spring of 1999. In the second one, the Government has indicated that existing legal texts
with explicit reference to exclusive marketing or industrial rights for COTONTCHAD
are now void, in effect meeting the conditionality by default. It is however concerned
that a comprehensive regulatory framework for the sector, as well as support measures to
effect a smooth transition to a competitive environment, still need to be put in place.
60.   Overall progress and specific achievements warrant continued support. The
Government has now established a significant track record in implementing a broad,
ambitious and complex program. It has done so in the difficult environment of a major
political transition, and despite persistently weak management and technical capacity. In
a matter of only a few years, the Government has positioned Chad as a solid reformist
country and has caught up on the general reform movement in the region. It has
underlined its commitment to carry out its program, by undertaking difficult and
expensive technical steps towards its completion. In most cases, except for cotton,
technical diagnoses, analyses or action plans have been completed, and Government has
given the go ahead. The Government has also been careful in building up internal
support for the reform program. For instance, a consensus on the privatization of the
country's second-largest enterprise, SONASUT, has been nurtured, to the point where
Government is now confident it will be able to complete the privatization process.
Finally, the Government has indicated that its reform program is by no means over. It
16



intends to continue its adjustment policies and has requested the support of the Bank and
the IMF to launch a new program in mid-1999. The unfinished agenda of the current
adjustment program will thus be pursued in the next phase, including reform programs in
the cotton sector and public administration.
61.   Elements of the Government's agenda have already been articulated in the context
of the preparation of the proposed Chad-Cameroon Pipeline project. A Letter of Policy
for the "Management of the Economy at the Oil Era" has already been prepared by the
Government, and a Law defining the principles for allocating oil revenues to
development programs has been adopted by the National Assembly in December 1998.
62.   Both documents outline the direction of Government policy in the medium to long
term. The thrust of current financial and structural policies has been reaffirmed, while
the economic and institutional implications of the transition to the "oil era" are being
addressed. Further technical work and continued dialogue are currently ongoing to
prepare the next phase of adjustment. and identify in particular key actionable steps that
would serve as triggers for disbursing financial support under adjustment credits.
B. Link to CAS
63.   The proposed third single-tranche Structural Adjustment Credit is consistent with
the high case scenario of the CAS, which was discussed with the Executive Directors in
January 1996. In extending this Credit the Bank would deliver on the commitments
made in the assistance strategy envisaged in the CAS. A new Country Assistance
Strategy is under preparation. Extensive consultations with stakeholders are in progress.
While the ongoing CAS was focused on restoring the basic functions of the state, the new
CAS will be centered on the transition to the oil era. The advent of oil resources is an
opportunity for Chad to build up on the progress made under the ongoing phase of
adjustment, and give its population a much better access to basic social and infrastructure
services. It will also help Chad move out of its present cycle of boom and bust linked to
the world prices of cotton and the amount of rainfall. The new CAS will be presented to
the Board when the oil project is firmly established and about to be launched. It will
outline a medium-to-long term scenario and propose a program to help Chad prepare for
the efficient management of its oil resources.
C. Poverty Impact
64.   The program has contributed to poverty alleviation in a variety of ways, direct and
indirect. Fiscal stabilization has been a key ingredient in restoring growth, creating a
more favorable climate for private investment, and in re-establishing a capacity to deliver
basic services. Social and political unrest, administrative gridlock, pervasive insecurity
and financial crises, which had plagued Chad during its first three decades as an
independent country, are all now largely over. Additional financial resources, though
limited compared to the social deficits in Chad, have allowed the Government to devote
an increasing level of public spending for the provision of social services and
infrastructure. The divestiture program is a pre-requisite to allow private capital and
management to expand the production and lower the costs of infrastructure and services,
17



without which private-led growtlv is impossible. More importantly, the program has
created a policy and dialogue environment where the focus has shifted from crisis
management to development.
D. Benefits and Risks
65.   Benefits. The operation supports the Government's macroeconomic program, and,
more broadly, its development strategy. Direct benefits include an improved provision of
social services, fiscal and macroeconomic stabilization and a more favorable environment
for private sector to support growth and poverty reduction. The credit amount has been
increased to enable Chad to properly finance routine road maintenance in 1999. In the
absence of such funding, the cost of road maintenance would increase in 2000 and
Chad's growth prospects would be undermined.
66.   Risks. Risks to the operation per se are limited, since all conditionalities have
been met, but there remains risks to Chad's future development strategy. The most
important risk is political. Political risk entail less the prospects of interruption in the
implementation of the reform agenda because of interest group opposition or democratic
changes in governing coalitions, than the type of ethnic-based conflict and change in
regime that has paralyzed the country repeatedly over the last decades, and the associated
social and economic turmoil, including loss of lives and destruction of assets. Recent
developments in the setting up of democratic institutions have significantly reduced,
though not eliminated, these risks.
67.   Risks of social opposition have been mitigated by consultations with stakeholders
and, to some extent, by the very success of the program. To mitigate these social and
political risks, it is critical, however, that the Government continues and improves its
communication and information efforts about its policies in general, and adjustment in
particular. Temptations to adopt alternative policy agendas, or ideological biases against
the current liberalization agenda of the Government, have not disappeared. In addition,
increased fiscal pressure on the narrow formal private sector, reduced real civil service
wages and likely layoffs in the course of privatization, especially for the larger public
enterprises, may all put pressure on the Government to slow down program
implementation.
68.   Finally, the gradual improvement in economic management capacity needs to be
built upon, with continued donor support where necessary, to ensure not only a smooth
execution of the program, but also Government readiness in the face of unanticipated
crises.
E. Disbursement Procedures and Implementation Arrangements
69.   The proposed Credit will be disbursed in one tranche. It will follow the Bank's
simplified disbursement procedures for structural adjustment operations. Proceeds of the
Credit will be deposited by IDA in a Central bank account at the request of the Borrowr
If the proceeds of the Credit are used for ineligible purposes, IDA will require v_.
Borrower to either: (a) return that amount to the account for use for eligible purposes; or
(b) refund the amount directly to IDA. The administration of the Credit will be the
18



responsibility of the Minister of Finance. Although an audit of the deposit account will
not be required, the Bank reserves the right to require audits at any time.
70.  Implementation of the adjustment program is under the direct supervision of the
High Inter-ministerial Committee for Adjustment at the political level, and a Technical
Committee for Adjustment at the technical level. A Program Monitoring Unit, the
"Cellule Economique", coordinates and monitors the program, and issues quarterly
implementation reports.  Regular IDA supervision missions also monitor program
implementation and the general conduct of economic policy.
IV. BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
A. Bank Portfolio
71.   The currently active portfolio, as of December 1998, is composed of 9 IDA-
financed investment operations. Portfolio action plans, identified after a 1998 CPPR, led
to an improvement in portfolio performance compared to FY98 when three projects were
rated unsatisfactory for both implementation progress and achievement of development
objectives. In FY99, only one project, the ATETIP public works project, is currently
rated unsatisfactory under both criteria and the government has taken the first necessary
steps in view of lifting the suspension of disbursements. The Education project is still
rated unsatisfactory for its development objective, despite significant improvement in
physical implementation. A CPPR was carried out in February 1999. Its major emphasis
was on the sustainability of results.
72.   Several constraints to satisfactory portfolio performance have been identified. A
common factor is weak local management capacity, exacerbated by rapid personnel
turnover at the project or ministerial level. Support from the IDA-financed Capacity
Building for Economic Management Project, technical assistance from various donors
and capacity building components in other projects all contribute to alleviating capacity
constraints. Chad has also been at the forefront of the African Capacity Building
Initiative. A local Capacity Building Secretariat (focal point) was created in April 1997
for the in-country coordination of the Initiative; a detailed Business Plan has been
prepared.
73.  In addition to institutional capacity, project performance also crucially depends on
the quality of public policies and sector strategies. As the experience with adjustment has
demonstrated, rapid social and economic changes in Chad have altered the policy and
institutional environments in which projects are undertaken.  In many instances, a
reevaluation or redesign of sector strategies has been required. In education, health, rural
development and transport, the Government is now engaged, with donor support, in
revising its strategies. They will be presented at sector Roundtables, which will be held
in Chad throughout 1999.
19



B. IFC and MIGA
74.   Chad became a member of IFC in 1997. It has requested IFC to participate
directly and as an arranger in the financing plan for the Chad-Cameroon pipeline project,
which is scheduled for 1999. Chad is not a member of MIGA.
V. COLLABORATION WITH THE IMF AND OTHER DONORS
75.   The Bank has worked closely with the IMF and other donors (mainly France, the
European Union and the African Development Bank) in helping Chad design, prepare
and implement its program. The African Development Bank's Second Structural
Adjustment Credit is closely linked to the Bank's proposed operation. The Swiss
Development Corporation contributed to Chad's program through its General
Co-financing Agreement with the Bank under SAC II in December 1997.
76.   The IMF and the Bank collaborated with the Chadian Government on the
preparation of the 1995-1998 PFP, and its subsequent updates. A new three-year PFP
will be jointly prepared in the spring of 1999. The IMF approved Chad's first three-year
arrangement under its ESAF in September, covering the period from July 1995 to June
1998. A program consolidation period later extended the arrangement's coverage to
March 1999. Financing under all three annual arrangements have been approved. The
Chadian authorities have already indicated that they will seek a new three-year
arrangement under the ESAF.
VI. RECOMMENDATION
77.   I am satisfied that the proposed IDA Credit would comply with the Articles of
Agreement of the Association and I recommend that the Executive Directors approve it.
James D. Wolfensohn
President
by Sven Sandstr6m
Washington, D.C.
April 12, 1999
Attachments
20



ANNEXES



Annex I
Page 1 of 6
Chad at a glance                                                            2/12/99
Sub-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                        Saharan      Low-
Chad     Atrica  Income       Development diamoetnd
1997
Population, mid-year (millions)                      6.8      614      2,048                Life ~r ectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, US$)                   240       500      350
GNP (Atlas method, US$ billions)                     1.6      309       722
Average annual growth, 1991-97
Population (%)                                       2.5       2.7       2.1
Labor force (%)                                      2.5       2.6       2.3     GNP                            Giross
per                           primary
Most recent ostimate (latest year available, 1991-97)                            capita                     enrollment
Poverty (% otpopulation below natlonal poverty line)
Urban population (% of total population)             22        32        28
Life expectancy at birth (years)                     49        52        59                       J
Infant mortality (per 1,000 lve births)            113        90        78
Child malnutrtion (% of children under 5)             ..       27         ..              Acceso In sale water
Access to safe water (% of population)               24        44        71
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                 48        43        47
Gross prlmary enroliment (% of school-age population)  65      75        91      -     Chad -     Low-income group
Male                                               85        82       100
Femalb                                             44        67        81
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1976    1986      1996      1997
Economic ratios
GDP (USS billions)                         0.87      1.1       1.6       1.6
Gross domestlc lnvestmentVGDP              17.1      8.1      13.5      16.3                    1
Exportsofgoodsandservices/GDP              16.1    13.4       17.5      17.6                   lde
Gross domestk savings/GDP                   1.2    -5.9       -2.8      -1.5
Gross national savings/GDP                    ..      ..       1.3       1.4
Current account baIanoa/GOP                -10.5   -16.3     -12.2    -15.0      Dmsi
Interest payments/GDP                       0.1      0.2       0.9       1.0      mstlavi                   Investment
Total debtGDP                              11.9    22.7       61.3      57.3     Savings
Totaldebtservice/exports                    3.6      5.2      11.9      12.3
Present value of debt/GDP                     ..
Present value of debt/exports                ..
Indertedness
1976486  1987-97    1996      1697  1998-02
(average annual growth)
GDP                                1.0      2.1      3.7       4.1       6.4            Chad-Low-incomegroup
GNPpercapila                      -1.3    -0.6       1.3       1.7       3.8
Expols ol goods and servlces      -1.0      1.7    -4.9        9.7      14.7
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1976    1986      1996      1997      Growth rates of oufiA and Investment (%)
(% of GDP)                                                                       5
Agricuiture                                37.0    32.6       38.2      38.5
Industry                                   15.4    15.0       13.8      15.1    1001
Manufacturing                             11.5    11.9       11.4     12.8    so .-
Services                                   47.6    52.4       48.0      46.4      o'
Private oonsumption                        70.8   101.0       90.6      90.6    .50          93   94   95  9r,  97
GeneralgovemmentconsumptUon                16.7    13.9       12.2      10.9              -     SDI   --OGiDP
Irnports of goods and servIces             26.4    35.4       33.6      35.4
1976-86  1987-97     1996      1997     Growth ratee of eipeft and Impods (%)
(average annual growmth)
Agrculture                                  0.1      4.8       2.7       5.2    30 .
Industry                                    0.6      1.7       5.9       9.5    20.A
Manutacturing                               ..      ..        1.9     12.6    to .
Services                                    1.6    -0.1        1.9       1.5
Private consumption                         4.3      1.4       0.5       3.2    r o4  95    -   97
General govemment consumptlon               -5.4    -4.4      15.0      -5.8
GrossdomestlcInvestment                    -11.3    -0.3      48.9      24.1   -20
Imports of goods and services               1.7    -2.4        3.8       7.0                 ExpHs       tmports
Gross nationai product                      0.9      1.9       3.9       4.3
Note: 1997 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show tour key Indicators In the country (In bold) compared with Its Income-group average. If data are @frilng, the diamond will
be Incomplete.



Annex I
Page 2 of 6
Chad
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1976     1986      1996      1997      Inflation (%)
Domestic prices
(% change)
Consumer prices                                       -13 1      11 3       5.6     40
Implicit GDP deflator                          8.4    -16.9      11 6       2.6     2
Government finance                                                                   0
(% of GDg  includes current grants)                                                                     94   95   90   97
Current revenue                                         4 8       9 1       8.4    -20
Current budget balance                                 -2.0      -0.2       02              -     GDP deflator  -0 CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                               -14.5      -9.2      -9.5
TRADE
1976     1986      1996      1997      Export and Import levels (US$ millions)
(USS millions)
Total exports (fob)                             -       99        221       211     583 -
Cotton                                                42        108       115
Meat                                          ..       35        52        49    437
Manufactures                                           35         2         1
Total imports (cif)                                    207        432      423      2; .         ,
Food                                          ..        .         1        1      149
Fuel and energy                                        19        1 4       18                           I
Capital goods                                 ..      42        149       156       ii
91   92   92   94   95  90   97
Export prce index (1995=100)                                       92      100
Import price index (1995=100)                                     100      105                . Exports     li mports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                                          92        95
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1976     1986      1996      1997      Current account balance to GDP ratlo%)
(USS millions)
Exports of goods and services                 127      143        283      267       0.
Imports of goods and services                 213      378        546      537      -2  91  92  93   94   95  96  97
Resource balance                              -86     -235       -263     -270       -     
Netincome                                       0        -9       -32       -29      8,
Net current transfers                                             112        92      -,
.10
Current account balance                       -91     -174       -197     -228
Financing items (net)                         104      155        193      201      2 1
Changes in net reserves                       -14       19          4        27    -1E 
Memo:
Reserves including gold (USS millions)          0       20        160      131
Conversion rate (DEC, locaLAJS$)             239.0    346.3     511.6    583.6
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1976     1986      1996      1997
(USS millions)                                                                      Composlton of total debt, 1997 (USS millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed          103      242        996       890
IBRD                                          0        0          0        0                    F 5 G: 24
IDA                                          16       48       433       457
E: 151    '- 
Total debt service                              5        8         34        33
IBRD                                          0        0          0        0
IDA                                           0        2          4        5                         \ .
Composition of net resource flows                                                                      3            B: 457
Official grants                                                 145      138         D: 182\/
Official creditors                            5       29        106       93
Private creditors                             2        0         -2         0
Foreign direct investment                                        15       16
Portfolio equity                                                                !             C 71
World Bank program
Commitments                                  20       35         40       25      A - IBRD                      E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                 5       10         69       27      B - IDA   D - Other mutilateral   F - Private
Principal repayments                          0        2          1        2      C - IMF                       G - Short-term
Net flows                                     5        8         68       25
Interest payments                             0        1          3        3
Net transfers                                 5        8         65       22
Development Economics                                                                                                 2112199



Annex I
Page 3 of 6
Chad - Key Economic Indicators
Actual               Estimate         Projected
Indicator               1994    1995    1996    1997    1998    1999    2000    2001
National accounts
(as % GDP at current
market prices)
Gross domestic product                  100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0    100.0   100.0   100.0
Agriculture'                           37.2    35.1    37.1    37.4    37.5      35.0    34.7    33.8
Industry'                              11.7    14.3    13.4    14.7    15.0      15.7    15.8    15.8
Services'                              49.5    48.4    46.7    45.1    43.2    43.2    42.8    43.3
Total Consumption                       102.2   105.2   102.7   101.5   100.8    98.9    99.0    92.2
Gross domestic fixed                     11.8    11.6    11.9    14.4    15.0      19.8    33.6    41.1
investment
Government investment                   7.3     6.3     6.4     6.6      7.1      7.4      7.9     8.3
Private investment                      9.3     4.0     7.1      9.7     7.9     12.5    25.7    32.8
(includes increase in
stocks)
Exports (GNFS)b                          16.0    21.5    17.5    17.6    19.7    19.0    19.4    19.8
Imports (GNFS)                          34.9    36.9    33.6    35.4    35.5      37.7    52.0    53.0
Gross domestic savings                  -2.2    -5.2    -2.7    -1.5    -0.8        1.1     1.0      7.8
Gross national savingsC                   5.3    -0.1     1.3     1.4     3.5      4.4      4.3      9.8
Memorandum items
Gross domestic product                  1179    1438    1624    1521    1566      1607    1743    1888
(US$ million at current
prices)
Gross national product per             240.0   220.0   220.0   240.0       ..
capita (US$, Atlas method)
Real annual growth rates
(%, calculated from 1977
prices)
Gross domestic product at             9.9%    0.9%    3.7%    4.1%    7.0%      1.3%     5.7%     5.6%
market prices
Gross Domestic Income                 6.8%    4.0%    3.1%    2.7%    8.3%      1.9%     5.8%     5.5%
Real annual per capita
growth rates (%/o, calculated
from 1977 prices)
Grossdomesticproductat                7.1%   -1.6%    1.1%    1.6%    4.4%    -1.2%      3.2%     3.1%
market prices
Total consumption                     1.1%    4.5%   -1.5%   -1.2%    4.2%    -2.7%      2.4%    -5.7%
Private consumption                   8.6%    5.4%   -3.2%   -0.2%    4.0%    -7.4%      1.1%    -8.0%
(Continued)



Annex I
Page 4 of 6
Chad - Key Economic Indicators
(Continued)
Actual              Estimate         Projected
Indicator              1994    1995    1996    1997    1998    1999    2000    2001
Balance of Payments
(US$m)
Exports (GNFS)b                      190.0  309.0  283.0  266.8  308.5   305.5   338.3   373.5
Merchandise FOB                    135.2  247.1   221.1   211.1   247.6   237.8   265.8   293.2
Imports(GNFS)b                       411.4  531.2   545.7  537.2   555.4   606.3   905.9  1001.5
Merchandise FOB                    203.7  281.7  289.3   283.6  296.2   333.0   544.7   654.0
Resource balance                    -221.4  -222.2  -262.7  -270.4  -246.9  -300.8  -567.6  -628.0
Netcurrenttransfers                  113.3   100.3   112.4   91.7   151.1    124.5   132.7   130.7
(including official current
transfers)
Current account balance              -48.7  -53.7  -106.3  -139.8  -131.9  -192.7  -457.9  -540.9
(after official capital grants)
Net private foreign direct            14.2   10.1    14.8    15.8   31.8    88.7   335.4   464.8
investment
Long-term loans (net)                   ..      ..      ..      ..      ..
Official                             38.9   70.3   45.8   41.8   94.0   123.5    99.5    83.0
Private
Other capital (net, including
errors and omissions)
Change in reservesd                  -49.9  -59.3    4.1    27.3    -9.4   -22.4    29.8    42.7
Memorandum items
Resource balance (% of               -18.8%  -15.4%  -16.2%  -17.8%  -15.8%   -18.7%  -32.6%   -33.3%
GDP at current market
prices)
Real annual growth rates
(1977 prices)
Merchandise exports                 -0.8%   26.5%   14.3%    5.0%   12.9%    -5.3%     7.0%    7.4%
(FOB)
Primary                             9.4%   20.8%   11.9%    4.5%   11.4%    -5.5%     5.7%    5.7%
Manufactures                        -0.8%   22.6%   14.0%    0.0%    5.0%    6.1%     8.9%    12.3%
Merchandise imports                 -13.3%   18.2%   13.7%    3.3%    6.9%    14.0%   55.4%    7.5%
(CIF)
Public finance
(as % of GDP at current
market prices)"
Current revenues (inclu. current grants)  7.6    8.3    9.1    8.4    9.1    12.3    12.6    12.7
Current expenditures                  10.0    9.0    9.3       8.3     7.7      9.8    11.0    11.3
(Continued)



Annex I
Page 5 of 6
Chad - Key Economic Indicators
(Continued)
Actual               Estimate         Projected
Indicator               1994    1995    1996    1997    1998    1999    2000    2001
Current account surplus (+)             -2.4    -0.7    -0.2     0.1     1.4      2.5      1.6      1.3
or deficit (-)
Capital expenditure                     9.1      9.1     9.(     9.6     7.9      9.8     10.6    10.8
Foreign financing                       9.4      8.3    10.0    10.9     8.9     10.1      7.8      6.0
Monetary indicators
M2/GDP (at current market               12.1    15.0    15.6    13.2    13.3     13.6    13.8    13.9
prices)
Growth ofM2(%)                         66.3    36.0    20.2    -9.3    11.8       6.6    10.8       9.1
Private sectorcredit growth/           51.7   -41.3    55.1    61.0    42.0    30.6    85.7    80.0
total credit growth (%)
Price indices( 1977 =100)
Merchandise export price              103.4   149.4   117.0   106.3   110.5    112.0   117.0   120.1
index
Merchandiseimportprice                 164.8   192.9   174.7   165.8   148.7   144.6   152.2   157.1
index
Merchandise terms of trade             62.8    77.5    67.0    64.1    74.3      77.4    76.9    76.5
index
Real exchange rate                     57.4    63.0    65.3    65.4    65.4    65.4    65.4    65.4
(US$/LCU),
Real interest rates
Consumer price index                  41.3%    9.5%   11.3%    5.6%    2.9%     2.7%     3.7%     3.8%
(% growth rate)
GDPdeflator                           43.8%    8.7%   11.6%    2.6%    3.6%     3.1%     2.9%     3.0%
(% growth rate)
a. If GDP components are estimated at factor cost. a footnoote indicating this fact should be added.
b. "GNFS" denotes "goods and nonfactor services."
c. Includes net unrequited transfers excluding official capital grants.
d. Includes use of IMF resources.
e. Should indicate the level of the government to which the data refer.
f. "LCU" denotes "local currency units." An increase in US$/LCU denotes appreciation.



Annex I
Chad: External Financing Requirements, 15S4-2000                                        Page 6 of 6
1994        1995        1996     1997        1998        1999       2000    1998-2000)
Est.             Projected                 Total
(In millions of U.S. dollars)
External financing requirements                            243.7       266.4       338.8    248.0       247.1       297.6       242.9       787.6
Current account deficit                                 247.2       252.9       298.9    305.0       284.7       390.0        657.9     1,332.6
Exports of goods and nonfactor services             -190.0      -309.0      -282.9   -266.8      -307.0      -304.2      -334.8      -946.0
Imports of goods and nonfactor services              411.5       531.2       545.7    537.2       556.8       655.1       951.6     2,163.5
Noninterest current account (excl. official transfers)  235.5      240.3       285.1    293.0       273.5       379.0       647.6     1,300.1.
Scheduled interest                                      11.7        12.6        13.8     12.1        11.2        11.0        10.3        32.6
Capital account
Amortization due                                        10.9        11.6        12.1     12.4         17.4       21.1        23.4        61.9
IMF repayments                                           2.2        5.6          6.2     11.2        11.2         4.8         0.9        16.9
Other capital                                          -71 4       -98.1       -68.7    -58.2       -71.4      -137.4      -401.4      -610.2
Change in arrears                                        -7.8        28.2        76.6      4.6         7.0         0.0         0.0         7.0
Change in gross official reserves                        62.6        66.3        13.6    -27.1         -1.7        19.0      -37.9       -20.6
Disbursements: existing commitments                        243.7       266.4       338.8    248.0         9.1         0.0         0.0         9.1
Grants                                                   176.1        157.1      148.8    135.5         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0
Loans                                                     45.2        52.3       106.6     93.4         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0
Debt rescheduling/cancellation obtained                   7.5        44.5        59.4      7.7         9.1         0.0         0.0         9.1
Remaining financing gap                                   0.0         0.0         0.0      0.0       238.0       297.6       242.9       778.5
Disbursements: expected new commitments                      0.0         0.0         0.0      0.0       238.0       237.1       217.9       692.9
Grants                                                      0.0         0.0        0.0      0.0        127.5       119.0       123.2       369.6
Current official transfers                                0.0         0.0         0.0      0.0        81.1        66.9        68.6       216. 5
Of which: exceptional aid                               0.0         0.0         0.0      0.0        20.4         0.0         0.0        20.4
Project grants                                            0.0         0.0         0.0      0.0        46.4        52.1        54.6       153.1
Loans                                                      0.0         0.0         0.0      0.0        99.3       118.1        94.7       312.1
Debt rescheduling/cancellation expected                   0.0         0.0         0.0      0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0
Expected use of IMF resources                             0.0         0.0         0.0      0.0         11.3        0.0         0.0         11.3
Residual financing gap for exceptional financing           0.0         0.0         0.0      0.0         0.0        60.5        25.0        85.5



Annex II
Status of Bank Group Operations in Chad                                                                              Page I of I
Operations Portfolio
Difference Between
expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions                  and actual                  Last PSR
Fiscal                                                                                                                             disbursements a/        Supervision Rating b/
Project ID    Year                Borrower                            Purpose
IBRD       IDA       Cancel.      Undisb.      Orig    Frm Rev'd   Dev Obj   Imp Prog
Number of Closed Projects: 25
Active Projects
TD-PE-528        1991   GOVERNMENT                        ENGINEERING                               0.00       11.00         0.00         4.61         4.72        4.84       S          S
TD-PE-530        1993   GOVERNMENT OF CHAD                TRANSPORT SECT II                         0.00       49.70         0.00         4.08       -9.67         2.58       S          S
TD-PE-517        1993   GOVT                              BASIC EDUCATION                           0.00       19.30         0.00        11.15        10.96        0.00       S          U
TD-PE-533        1994   REPUBLIC OF CHAD                  PUBLIC WORKS AND CAP                      0.00       17.40         0.00        11.42        11.44        0.00       U          U
TD-PE-509        1994   GOVT OF CHAD                      HEALTH & SAFE MOTHER                      0.00       29.40         0.00        12.10        -1.66        -.74       S           S
TD-PE-35601      1995   GOVT OF CHAD                      POP. & AIDS CO                            0.00       20.40         0.00        11.58         1.43        0.00       S          S
TD-PE-501        1995   GOVERNMENT                        AG SERVICES                               0.00       24.53         0.00        12.04         1.68        0.00       S           S
TD-PE-35623      1996   GOVT OF CHAD                      CAPACITY BUILDING                         0.00         9.50        0.00         2.61         2.76        0.00       S           S
TD-PE-532        1998   GOVT OF CHAD                      HOUSEHOLD ENERGY                          0.00         5.27        0.00         5.45          .94        0.00       S           S
Total                                                                                               0.00      186.50         0.00        75.04        22.60        6.68
Active Projects       Closed Projects           Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):                  110.00              397.00               507.00
of which has been repaid:                    0.00               21.84               21.84
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:                  186.50              364.06               550.56
Amount sold                                        0.00                 6.00                6.00
Of which repaid               :                 0.00                6.00                 6.00
Total Undisbursed                 :               75.04                 0.00               75.04
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
b. Following the FY94 Annual Review of Portfolio performance (ARPP), a letter based system was introduced (HS - highly Satisfactory, S - satisfactory, U   unsatisfactory,
HU - highly unsatisfactory): see proposed Improvements in Project and Portfolio Performance Rating Methodology (SecM94-901), August 23, 1994.
Note:
Disbkirspment data is updated at the end of the first week of the month.
Generated by the Operations Information System (OIS)                                                                                                                                    Page I



Annex III
Page I of 4
Chad - Bank Group Program Summary, FY 1999-2001
Proposed IBRD/IDA Base-Case Lending Program, FY 1999-2001a
Strategic rewardsh   Implementation"
FY           Project                                    USS(M,fj       (H/M/L)          risks (H/MIL)
1999 SAC III                                               30.0           H                    M
SAFE MOTHER SUPPLEM                                   10.9          M                    L
Subtotal                               40.9
2000 CAP.BLDG MGT PET.ECO                                    8.0          H                    H
CHAD TELECOMM.                                         8.0           M                   M
ELECTRICITY                                          20.0           M                    H
HEALTH SEC. INV.                                     30.0           H                    L
PET. TA/OIL SECTOR                                   24.0           M                    H
TD/CM PIPELINE                                        35.0           M                   M
Subtotal                              125.0
2001 THIRD TRANSPORT SECT                                  20.0            H                   H
Subtotal                                20.0           H                   M
Total, FY 1999-2001               185.9
a. This table presents the proposed program for the next three fiscal years.
b. For each project, indicate whether the strategic rewards and implementation risks are expected to be high (H),
moderate (M), or low (L).
Generated by the Operations Information System (OIS) on 03/23/99



Chad - Selected Indicators of                                            Annex III
Bank Portfolio Performance and Management                                          Pagc 2 of 4
Indicator                                                1996         1997         1998          1999
Portfolio Assessment
Number of Projects under implementationa                    12           11           11            9
Average implementation period (years)b                    3.48         3.91         3.92         4.60
Percent of problem projects"'
by number                                         25.00        36.36        27.27        22.22
by amount                                         33.89        43.32        26.76         19.68
Percent of projects at risk'
by number                                         50.00        40.00        33.33         33.33
by amount                                         54.68        50.76        49.20        46.33
Disbursement ratio (%)                                   22.88        21.31        21.0        15.71
Portfolio Management
CPPR during the year (yes/no)                              No         YES           YES          YES
Supervision resources (total US$)                      768,46       684.93        848.68       333.88
Average Supervision (US$/project)                        64.04        62.27        77.15        37.10
Memorandum item                                      Since FY80      Last five FYs
Projects evaluated by OED
by number                                                22                7
by amount (US$ millions)                             351.30           194.90
Percent rated U or HU
by number                                             55.00            28.57
by amount                                             37.15            31.55
a.  As shown in the Annual Report on Portfolio Performance (except for current FY)
b.  Average age of projects in the Bank's country portfolio.
C.  Pcrcent of projects rated U or HU on development objectives (1)0) and/or implementation progress (IP).
d.  As defined under the Portfolio Improvement Program.
e.  Ratio of disbursements during the year to the undisbursed balance of the Bank's portfolio at the beginning of the
year: investment projects only.
Generated by the Operations Information System (OIS)



Chad - Selected Indicators of                                          Annex III
Bank Portfolio Performance and Management                                       Page 3 of 4
Indicator                                              1996         1997         1998         1999
Portfolio Assessment
Number of Projects under implementation'                  12          11           11            9
Average implementation period (years)b                  3.48         3.91        3.92         4.60
Percent of problem projects"
by number                                        25.00       36.36        27.27        22.22
by amount                                        33.89       43.32        26.76        19.68
Percent of projects at risk" d
by number                                        50.00       40.00        33.33        33.33
by amount                                        54.68       50.76        49.20        46.33
Disbursement ratio (%)                                 22.88       21.31        21.70        15.71
Portfolio Management
CPPR during the year (yes/no)                            No         YES          YES          YES
Supervision resources (total US$)                     768.46      684.93       848.68       333.88
Average Supervision (US$/project)                      64.04        62.27       77.15        37.10
Memorandum item                                    Since FY80      Last five FYs
Projects evaluated by OED
by number                                              22                7
by amount (US$ millions)                           351.30           194.90
Percent rated U or HU
by number                                           55.00            28.57
by amount                                           37.15            31.55
a.  As shown in the Annual Report on Portfolio Performance (except for current FY)
b.  Average age of projects in the Bank's country portfolio.
c.  Percent of projects rated U or HU on development objectives (DO) and/or implementation progress (IP).
d.  As defined under the Portfolio Improvement Program.
e.  Ratio of disbursements during the year to the undisbursed balance of the Bank's polfolio at the beginning of the
year: investment projects only.
Generated bv the Onerations Information Svstem (OIS)



Annex III
Page 4 of 4
Chad - IFC and MIGA Program, FY96-99
Past
Category                      1996          1997          1998          1999
IFC approvals (US$m)'                       0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00
Sector (%)
TOTAL                                   100.00       100.00        100.00        100.00
Investment instrument (%)
Loans                                  0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00
Equity                                 0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00
Quasi-Equity b                         0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00
Other                                  0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00
TOTAL                                     100.00        100.00        100.00        100.00
MIGA guarantees (US$m)                      0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00
MIGA commitments (US$m)                     0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00
aExcludes AEF projects.
bIncludes quasi-equity types of both loan and equity instruments.
Generated by the Operations Information Svstem (OIS) on 03/23/99



Annex IV
Page 1 of7
ENGLISH TRANSLATION OF ORIGINAL FRENCH TEXT
UNITY-WORK-PROGRESS
REPUBLIC OF CHAD
MINISTRY OF FINANCE,
PLANNING, ECONOMY AND
TERRITORIAL ADMINISTRATION
N'Djamena. March 22, 1999
Minister of Finance, Planning, Economy and
Territorial Administration
to
Mr. James D. Wolfensohn
President of the IDA
1818 H. Street
Washington, D.C.
Mr. President,
On behalf of the Government of the Republic of Chad, I have the honor and the
pleasure to address to you the following Letter of Development Policy for the Third
Structural Adjustment Credit.
This Letter of Development Policy, examined attentively and adopted by the
Government, confirms the main commitments of the Government under the Structural
Adjustment Program, in particular those associated with preparations for a new structural
adjustment program, the macroeconomic and financial framework, structural reforms,
rehabilitation of the essential capacities of the State, and improved public finances and
the creation of a favorable environment for private sector development.
The Government believes that the policies and measures described in the Letter of
Development Policy are of such nature as to permit the realization of the objectives of the
program, and remains ready to adopt any additional measures, which prove essential to
this end. The Governiment will respond favorably to all requests for information on the
part of IDA relating to the implementation of these measures and policies.
Sincerest regards,
MAHAMAT ALI HASSAN
Minister of Finance, Planning, Economy
and Territorial Administration



Annex IV
Page 2 of 7
THIRD STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
I.   Preface
Since 1995, the Government of Chad has been implementing a structural
adjustment program that focuses on strengthening the capacity of the state to fulfill its
essential functions now that the country is emerging from a financial crisis that had
deeply affected its economy and the operations of the Government's development
institutions, and severely hampered the prospects for sustainable poverty reduction.
As 1999 begins, impressive progress has been made. Public finance has sharply
improved, government revenues have considerably increased, spending has been brought
under control and resources have been reallocated to priority sectors such as health,
education, public works, and social services.  The capacities of the Government's
financial management agencies have been steadily strengthened, even though continued
efforts must still be made to ensure that the results will be sustainable.
In addition, the Government has continued to implenment its divestiture program,
the purpose of which is not only to increase the economic efficiency of state enterprises
by permitting the private sector to acquire or manage them, but also to enable the State to
focus on its essential functions. Now that the first three-year adjustment program has
been completed, only a few enterprises are still owned by the Government, which it
intends to privatize in the near future. At the same time, it has undertaken a wide-ranging
reform of the regulatory and legal frameworks governing taxation, external trade,
employment legislation, and several economic sectors, the purpose being to provide a
favorable environment for the development of the private sector and competition.
Since the Government is aware of the need to take a long-term view in developing
the institutional environment, it has also initiated other development reforms such as
reform of its civil service, for which a strategy has been approved, and is now in the
process of being implemented.



Annex IV
Page 3 of 7
II.  Preparation of a New Structural Adjustment Program
The Government wishes to continue the task begun in 1995, and plans to
implement a new three-year program covering the period from 1999 to 2001.
The Government intends to review the outcomes and draw the lessons from its first
three-year program and to promote awareness of it among all actors in the country's
economic and social life.
On this basis, the Government plans to prepare a new three-year economic-policy
framework paper, in partnership with donors, in particular the International Monetary
Fund and the World Bank.
The Government has requested IDA support to implement a new structural
adjustment program, and intends to discuss the modalities of this support (with particular
regard to the characteristics of IDA structural adjustment financing) in the context of the
preparation of the Chad Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) in the first half of 1999.
III. Macroeconomic and Financial Framework
Medium-term growth targets have been set at between 4% and 5% per year.
However, due to a number of exogenous factors, growth in 1999 could reach at most
1.2%. The following should be noted: (i) the delayed effects on industrial output of the
1998 decline in seed cotton production, resulting from the fall in international prices,
which was partly passed on to producers; and (ii) the anticipated effects of a return to
normal rainfall in 1999, after very favorable levels in 1998, which brought about a
considerable rise in food-crop output. Inflation is expected to remain stable at about
3.5% per year, demonstrating that the effects of the price rises following the
1994 devaluation have been brought under control.
Despite these less favorable growth projections, the Government plans to continue
its fiscal effort, focusing on: (i) continuing its policy of broadening the tax base by
adopting measures for collecting taxes from the informal sector (i.e. withholding tax on
corporation and personal income, and general synthetic tax'), and by increasing its efforts
to combat fraud and tax evasion, particularly as regards import taxes (customs and
imports of fuel); and (ii) controlling government expenditure, and redirecting spending
toward priority sectors. In particular, the Government plans to achieve a current primary
surplus equivalent to 2.3% of GDP.
'Impot gin&ral liberatoire.



Annex IV
Page 4 of 7
IV. 1999-2000 Reform Program
Although the Government plans to finalize its new short- and medium-term
economic reform program only after completing the consultations and discussions
scheduled for the first half of 1999, it has already identified a number of specific areas to
pursue the reform agenda of its first structural adjustment program; in particular:
(i)   revision of its policies for financing road maintenance;
(ii)  continuation of its divestiture policy;
(iii)  continuation of the posts and telecommunications reform program;
(iv)  preparation of a reform strategy for the cotton sector;
(v)   implementation of the civil service reform strategy.
A.  Road Maintenance
The Government is fully aware that the financing of road maintenance is currently
in crisis. The present system presents conceptual and structural problems which affect
the availability of medium- and long-term resources; in addition, the CAER
(Autonomous Road Maintenance Fund), is now in an acute funding crisis, unable to
undertake routine maintenance because it cannot pay arrears to suppliers.
In order to overcome the immediate crisis facing CAER, the Government, in
consultation with the IMF, has committed to transferring CFAF 2.2 million to the CAER
from the Third Structural Adjustment Credit as soon as this financing becomes available,
making it possible for routine road maintenance to resume. The Government also
commits to a schedule of monthly payments of CAER's regular resources and to
publishing a monthly implementation report.
The structural principle adopted by the Government is that road maintenance costs
should be borne by users, for which the most appropriate mechanisms remain to be
identified. Though this will constitute the guiding principle for the proposed reforms,
additional measures to mobilize local resources may be considered.
The amount of local resources needed annually for the routine maintenance of the
priority road network (totaling 4,800 km) is at least CFAF 5 billion. Any increase in the
size of the network would call for an upward adjustment in the financing for routine
maintenance. The mechanisms for mobilizing and using these resources, together with
the amounts involved, will be clearly defined in appropriate legislation, and indicated in
public finance plans, beginning in the year 2000.



Annex IV
Page 5 of 7
To this end, the Government will study the various options for introducing revised
mechanisms for financing road maintenance, including:
(i)   Establishment of an overall budget appropriation for road
maintenance. In this case, the Government would provide all the
financing necessary for maintenance work out of its current
budget, collecting for its own account all the revenue currently
allocated to CAER, without earnarking any of these resources for
specific purposes.
(ii)   Revision of the existing system, through an increase in the share of
petroleum tax revenue allocated to CAER from the current 16% to
about 65%, this amount being added to the 7.5% freight fee.
(iii)  Fully autonomous financing of road maintenance, off budget and
without any contribution from Government. This option would
imply a complete overhaul of the mechanisms for road
maintenance financing and include, among other measures: (i) the
elimination of the freight fee; (ii) a reduction in the petroleum tax;
(iii) introduction of a road user fee, to be levied on fuel sales and
paid directly to CAER.
The Government intends to consult its partners before making any final decision,
and, because of the potential impact on the government budget for 2000 and subsequent
years, it plans to reach that decision by June 1999 at the latest, so that the year
2000 Finance Law reflects any changes.
B.  Divestiture by the State
The Government intends to press ahead with its programn divestiture.
(a)   It has recruited an investment bank to handle the process of privatization
of Societt nationale sucriere de Tchad (SONASUT), and expects to
(i) examine the Memorandum on Privatization Strategy this bank is
scheduled to submit by March 31, 1999, and (ii) issue a call for bids on a
majority shareholding in SONASUT by June 30, 1999.
(b)    Regarding Air Tchad, SNER (Societt nationale d'entretien routier), and
AFF (Abattoirs frigorifiques de Farcha), the Government intends to
finalize implementation of its divestment plans by June 30, 1999. In
particular, it expects to award a management contract of AFF by March
31, 1999, to initiate the liquidation of Air Tchad by June 30, 1999 and
submit a bill on air transport deregulation to the National Assembly.



Annex IV
Page 6 of 7
C.  Water and Power Sector
The Government will submit new water and electricity legislation to the National
Assembly in the spring of 1999. By mid 1999, it will also have drawn up the main
implementing legislation dealing with water and power tariffs and the monitoring of
contracts with private operators.
In 1998, following pre-qualification proceedings, the Government invited two
private operators to submit technical and financial bids for the concessioning of the water
and electricity utility. Both firms have completed their appraisals of the sector in Chad,
and consultations with the Government have been under way since December 1998. It is
anticipated that these two pre-qualified contractors will put in their technical and
financial bids by April 30, 1999.
The Government expects to have selected the successful bidder, who will take
charge of electric power production and distribution in the areas currently serviced by
STEE (Societt tchadienne d 'eau et electricite).
Concurrently, the Government will seek the financing necessary to restructure the
water and power sectors, and will complete the financial reorganization of STEE, in
particular with regard to its short-term debt.
D.  Postal and Telecommunications Sector
The Government's key policy choices in the postal and telecommunications sector
are reflected in two sectoral laws enacted by the National Assembly in July 1998. These
laws also provide the regulatory framework for the implementation of reforms, which the
government intends to pursue vigorously in 1999 and beyond.  In addition, the
Government will request IDA assistance for a reform support project in the sector.
In this context, a cellular license will be awarded during the first half of 1999, on
the basis of the results of an international call for bids issued in December 1998.
In addition, the Govermment is strongly committed to moving ahead expeditiously
with the privatization of SOTELTCHAD, following the procedure outlined in the new
telecommunication law. The main steps expected to be completed by end of 1999 are:
(i) completion of the splitting of posts and telecommunications activities within ONPT
(Office national des postes et telecommunications), and completion of the merger
between TIT (Societt  des telecommunications internationales du Tchad) and the
telecommunications arm of ONPT; and (ii) formal incorporation of SOTELTCHAD.
These steps are prerequisites for the privatization of SOTELTCHAD, planned for the
year 2000.



Annex IV
Page 7 of 7
E.  Cotton Sector
The Government has requested IDA support to prepare a cotton sector
liberalization strategy by June 30, 1999. On the basis of this strategy, Government will
adopt a schedule for a medium-term reform sector.
Concurrently, the Government will pursue the preparatory technical work required
to split oil and soap manufacturing from the main activities of COTONTCHAD, with a
view to the privatization of DHS by December 31, 1999.
F.  Civil Service Reform
A strategy for reform of the civil service was developed and ratified in 1998. The
Government has established a permanent unit with a mandate to monitor the
implementation of the strategy's key recommendations. With the support of this unit, the
Government expects to implement the first reform measures quickly, in particular-and
prior to December 31, 1999-the policies on (i) recruitment, (ii) compensation, and
(iii) promotion.
G.  Adjustment Program Monitoring
Oversight of implementation of the structural adjustment program will continue to
be the responsibility of the High Inter-ministerial Committee, assisted by the Technical
Committee for Adjustment and the Economic Unit, which was set up recently to replace
the Structural Adjustment Support Unit. The latter will continue to produce quarterly
progress reports on the adjustment program and collect and disseminate information of
interest to all parties concerned.



Annex V
Page I of I
Republic of Chad
Third Structural Adjustment Credit
Supplementary Data Sheet
Timetable of Key Processing Events
a)   Time taken to prepare                              8 months
b)   Prepared by                                        Government and IDA
c)   First Preparation Meeting                          February 1999
d)   Appraisal                                          March 1999
e)   Negotiations                                       April 1999
f)   Planned Date of Effectiveness                      May 1999



