Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3200 CD
Development Credit Agreement
(Third Structural Adjustment Credit)
between
REPUBLIC OF CHAD
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated May 21, 1999
CREDIT NUMBER 3200 CD 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated May 21, 1999, between REPUBLIC OF CHAD (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received a letter, dated February 19, 1999, from 
the Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to 
achieve structural adjustment of the Borrower's economy (hereinafter called the 
Program), declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution of the Program, and 
requesting assistance from the Association in support of the Program during the 
execution thereof;  
(B)
the Borrower has carried out the measures and taken the actions described 
in Schedule 2 of this Agreement to the satisfaction of the Association; and 
(C)
on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Association has decided 
in support of the Program to provide such assistance to the Borrower by making the 
Credit in one tranche as hereinafter provided;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Page  2
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, as amended through December 2, 
1997, and with the modifications thereof set forth below (the General Conditions) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
(a)
Section 2.01, paragraph 12, is modified to read:
“‘Project’ means the program, referred to in the Preamble to the 
Development Credit 
Agreement, in support of which the Credit is made.”;
(b)
Section 4.01 is modified to read:
“Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, 
withdrawals from the 
Credit Account shall be made in the currency of the 
deposit account specified in Section 
2.02 of 
the Development Credit 
Agreement.”;
(c)
Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Credit 
from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of the Development 
Credit Agreement and of these 
General Conditions.”; 
(d)
The last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted;
(e)
Section 9.06 (c) is modified to read:
“(c) Not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later 
date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, the Borrower shall prepare and 
furnish to the Association a report, of 
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall 
reasonably request, 
on the execution of the program referred to in the Preamble to the 
Development Credit Agreement, the performance by the Borrower and the Association of 
their 
respective obligations under the Development Credit Agreement and the 
accomplishment of the 
purposes of the Credit.”; and 
(f)
Section 9.04 is deleted and Sections 9.05, 9.06 (as modified above), 9.07 
and 9.08 are renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06 and 9.07.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a)
“Euro” means the lawful currency of the member states of the European 
Union that adopt the single currency in accordance with the Treaty establishing the 
European Currency, as amended by the Treaty on European Union; and 
(b)
“Deposit Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (a) of 
this Agreement. 
ARTICLE II 
The Credit 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit  Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to twenty-two million two hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 22,200,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The Borrower shall open, prior to furnishing to the 
Association the first request for withdrawal from the Credit Account, and thereafter 
maintain in its central bank, a deposit account in Euro on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association. All withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be 
deposited by the Association into the Deposit Account.
(b)
Subject to the provisions of paragraph (c) of this Section, the Borrower 
Page  3
shall be entitled to use the proceeds of the Credit withdrawn from the Credit Account 
and deposited in the Deposit Account in support of the Program. 
(c)
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Credit shall not be used 
to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. If the Association shall have determined at any time that any proceeds of 
the Credit shall have been used to make a payment for an expenditure so excluded, the 
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, (i) deposit into the 
Deposit Account an amount equal to the amount of said payment, or (ii) if the 
Association shall so request, refund such amount to the Association. Amounts refunded 
to the Association upon such request shall be credited to the Credit Account for 
cancellation. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1999, or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit account or cancelled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as  may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request ; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment and service charges shall be payable semiannually on 
February 1 and August 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a)   Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on 
each February 1 and August 1 commencing August 1, 2009, and ending February 1, 2039. 
Each installment to and including the installment payable on February 1, 2019, shall 
be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be 
two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years  the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association’s resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by the Association of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify 
the repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower 
to repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal 
amount of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to 
commence repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual 
payment date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the 
date on which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this 
paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of 
a minimum of five years on such repayment of principal.
Page  4
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned  
repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby specified for the 
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III 
Particular Covenants 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at 
the request of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out 
the Program. 
(b)
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying 
out the Program, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request. 
(c)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall exchange views with the Association on any proposed action to be 
taken after the disbursement of the Credit which would have the effect of materially 
reversing the objectives of the Program.
Section 3.02. Upon the Association’s request, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
have the Deposit Account audited in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association; 
(b)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than four (4) months after the date of the Association’s request for such audit, 
a certified copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in 
such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and 
(c)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning the Deposit 
Account and the audit thereof as the Association shall have reasonably requested.
ARTICLE IV 
Additional Event of Suspension 
Section 4.01.  Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that a situation has arisen which 
shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be 
carried out.
ARTICLE V 
Termination 
Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Page  5
Section 6.01. The minister of the Borrower responsible for Planning is 
designated as the representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of 
the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministère des Finances et de l’Economie B.P. 144
N’Djamena
Republic of Chad
Telex:
5257K
For the Association:
International Development Association 
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF CHAD
By /s/ Ahmat Soubiane Hassaballah 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Serge Michailof 
Acting Regional Vice President 
Africa
SCHEDULE 1 
Excluded Expenditures
For purposes of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of the Credit 
shall not be used to finance any of the following expenditures: 
1. 
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied 
from the territory of the Borrower; 
2.
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national 
or international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the 
Association shall have financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the 
Association shall have financed or agreed to finance under another credit or a loan;
Page  6
3.
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or subgroups of the 
Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by 
the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or 
any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated by 
the Association by notice to the Borrower:
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
112
   -
Alcoholic beverages
121
   -
Tobacco, unmanufactured,
tobacco refuse
122
   -
Tobacco, manufactured 
(whether or not containing
tobacco substitutes)
525
   -
Radioactive and 
associated materials
667
   -
Pearls, precious and
semiprecious
stones, unworked
or worked
718
718.7
Nuclear reactors, and 
parts thereof; fuel 
elements (cartridges),
non-irradiated, for
nuclear reactors
728
728.43
Tobacco processing
machinery
897
897.3
Jewelry of gold, 
silver or platinum
group metals (except
watches and watch
cases) and goldsmiths’
or silversmiths’
wares (including 
set gems)
971
   -
Gold, non-monetary
(excluding gold
ores and concentrates)
4.
expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for 
luxury consumption; 
5.
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of this paragraph 
the term "environmentally hazardous goods” means goods, the manufacture, use or import 
of which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international agreements to 
which the Borrower is a party, and any other goods designated as environmentally 
hazardous by agreement between the Borrower and the Association);
6.
expenditures: (a) in the territories of any country which is not a member of the 
Bank or for goods procured in, or services supplied from, such territories; or (b) on 
account of any payment to persons or entities, or any import of goods, if such payment 
or import is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken 
under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; and 
7.
expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Association determines 
that corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the 
Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Credit during the procurement or execution of such 
contract, without the Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory 
to the Association to remedy the situation.
Page  7
SCHEDULE 2 
Measures and Actions Referred to in Recital (B) of this Agreement
1.
On June 25, 1997, the Borrower completed a public offering of shares relating to 
the privatization of the “Office Nationale d’Hydraulique Pastorale et Villageoise” 
(ONHPV).
2.
On December 31, 1997, the Parliament of the Borrower adopted its 1998 Finance 
Law (Law No. 09/PR/97) including the following provisions:
(i)
introduction of a Synthetic Tax (“Impôt Général Libératoire”) to 
replace the 
license fee, turnover tax and corporate income tax  
(“Patente”, “Taxe sur le 
Chiffre d’Affaires” and “Impôts des 
Sociétés”) for businesses with turnover 
less than 
CFAF 40 million; 
(ii)
nominal increases in appropriations for non-wage current 
expenditures to the 
Education ministry (34 percent compared 
to 1997), Health ministry (43 
percent), Social Action 
ministry (60 percent) and Transport and Public Works 
ministry (40 
percent); 
(iii)
recruitment of 400 primary school teachers, 120 secondary school 
teachers and 
90 health services personnel and maintenance of 
recruitment freeze in all 
other ministries; and 
(iv)
increase in appropriations for counterpart funds to donor-financed 
investment 
projects (29 percent compared to 1997).  
3.
On June 2, 1998, the Borrower invited bids for the pre-qualification of private 
companies for the granting of a Concession Agreement for the Chadian Water and 
Electricity Company (“Société Tchadienne d’Eau et d’Electricité”, STEE).
4.
On August 17, 1998, the Parliament of the Borrower adopted the Law No. 008/PR/98 
on the Organization of the Public Postal Service, and the Law No. 009/PR/99 on 
Telecommunications. 
5.
On September 28, 1998, the Borrower submitted to pre-qualified companies a draft 
Concession Agreement for STEE acceptable to the Association. 
6.
On September 30, 1998, the Borrower invited bids for a management contract for 
the Farcha Slaughterhouse (“Abbattoirs Frigorifiques de Farcha” (AFF)). 
7.
In November 1998, audits (satisfactory to the Association) of the two Social 
Security Agencies (“Caisse Nationale de Retraite du Tchad” (CNRT) et “Caisse Nationale 
de Prévoyance Sociale” (CNPS) were completed. 
8.
The Borrower has prepared a draft Investment Charter compatible with UDEAC 
taxation, customs and investment reform, which was submitted to the Association on 
December 23, 1998. 
9.
On December 24, 1998, the Borrower adopted a Public Administration Reform 
Strategy Report and Action Plan satisfactory to the Association.
10.
On December 29, 1998, the Borrower invited bids on an international competitive 
bidding basis, for a license to operate a cellular telecommunications service. 
11.
On January 11, 1999, the Borrower granted a management contract for the “Hotel 
du Chari” to a company selected on the basis of an international competitive bidding 
process satisfactory to the Association. 
12.
On January 15, 1999, the Borrower adopted and transmitted to its Parliament a 
draft Water Code and a draft Electricity Production, Transport and Distribution Law, 
both  acceptable to the Association. 
13.
On February 8, 1999, the Borrower submitted to the sub-regional Banking 
Page  8
Commission (COBAC) for approval a draft agreement with a consortium of private 
investors for the sale of a majority of shares in the capital of  Banque Tchadienne de 
Crédit et de Dépôt (BTCD).
