Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2496 UG
(Amendment)
Agreement Amending
Development Credit Agreement
(Financial Sector Adjustment Credit)
between
THE REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated March 24, 1994
CREDIT NUMBER 2496 UG
(Amendment)
AGREEMENT AMENDING 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 24, 1994, between THE REPUBLIC OF UGANDA (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower and the Association have entered into a Development 
Credit Agreement (Financial Sector Adjustment Credit), dated June 22, 1993 (the 
Development Credit Agreement), for the purpose of assisting in the financing of the 
program referred to in Recital (A) of the Preamble to the Development Credit Agreement 
(the Program);
(B)
the Borrower has requested the Association to provide additional 
assistance towards the financing of the Program by increasing the amount made 
available under the Development Credit Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to provide such additional assistance to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions 
set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Amendments of the Development
Credit Agreement
Page  2
Section 1.01. Section 1.02 of the Development Credit Agreement is amended by 
deleting the "and" at the end of Subsection (g), substituting "; and" for "." at the 
end of Subsection (h) and adding a new Subsection (i) as follows:
"(i) "Amending Agreement" means the Agreement Amending the Development 
Credit Agreement (Financial Sector Adjustment Credit) between the Borrower and 
the Association, dated March 24, 1994;".
Section 1.02. Section 2.01 of the Development Credit Agreement is amended to 
read as follows:
"Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the 
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit 
Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to seventy-three million 
five 
hundred sixty thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 73,560,000) (the 
Credit), which includes an additional amount in various currencies equivalent 
to 
seven hundred sixty thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 760,000) (the 
Additional Financing)."
Section 1.03. A proviso is added at the end of Section 2.04 (a) of the 
Development Credit Agreement reading as follows:
"; provided, however, that any commitment charge on the Additional 
Financing shall accrue from a date sixty (60) days after the date of the 
Amending Agreement."
Section 1.04. (a) The amount of the Credit allocated to Category (1) in the 
table set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement is 
increased from SDR 65,460,000 to SDR 66,220,000, and the total amount of the Credit 
referred to at the end of the said table is increased from SDR 72,800,000 to SDR 
73,560,000.
(b)
Paragraph 6 of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement is amended 
by the deletion therefrom of the amount SDR 32,730,000 and the substitution thereof 
with the amount SDR 33,490,000.
Section 1.05. The following paragraph is added at the end of Schedule 1 to the 
Development Credit Agreement:
"8.  After a date twelve (12) months from the date of this Amending 
Agreement, no withdrawals shall be made and no commitment shall be entered 
into to pay amounts to or on the order of the Borrower in respect of 
expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the Additional Financing. 
At any time after such date, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, 
cancel the unwithdrawn amount of the Additional Financing from the Credit 
Account or any part thereof."
ARTICLE II
Effective Date; Termination
Section 2.01. This Amending Agreement shall not become effective until 
satisfactory evidence shall have been furnished to the Association that the execution 
and delivery of this Amending Agreement on behalf of the Borrower have been duly 
authorized or ratified by all necessary governmental action.
Section 2.02. As part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to Section 2.01 
of this Amending Agreement, there shall be furnished to the Association an opinion or 
opinions, satisfactory to the Association, of counsel acceptable to the Association 
showing, on behalf of the Borrower, that this Amending Agreement has been duly 
authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and 
is legally binding upon the Borrower in accordance with its terms.
Section 2.03. This Amending Agreement shall come into force and effect on the 
date upon which the Association dispatches to the Borrower notice of its acceptance of 
the evidence required by Section 2.01 of this Amending Agreement.
Section 2.04. If this Amending Agreement shall not have come into force and 
effect by a date ninety (90) days after the date of this Amending Agreement, this 
Amending Agreement and all obligations of the parties hereunder shall terminate, 
unless the Association establishes a later date for the purposes of this Section. If 
this Amending Agreement shall terminate under the provisions of this Section, the 
Page  3
Development Credit Agreement shall continue in full force and effect, as if this 
Amending Agreement had not been executed.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Amending Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year 
first above written.
THE REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
By /s/ Stephen K. Katenta-Apuli
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Edward V. K. Jaycox
Regional Vice President
Africa
