Documnt of
The World Bank
FOR OFFCIL USE ONLY
C#Z~~ e' ' 3 - 15a~
Repot No. P-4931-BEN
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT OF
SDR 33.5 MILLION TO
THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BENIN
FOR A
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
APRIL 26, 1989
Thi docment has a restricted dsbutIon and may be used by reipints only in the perfonnaue of
their offical ddes Its contents may not otherwise be dicosed without World Bank athoriation.



CIJRCY EQUIVAL TS
Currency unit       -         CPA Franc (CFPA)  11
US$ 1               -          CPAF 303
CPA? 1 million      -         US$ 3,300
WEIGHTS MMD mEASURES
Metric System
1 meter (m)              -          328 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)         -          0.62 mile (mil
1 sq. kilometer (km2)               0.39 square mile (sq. mO)
1 metric ton (t)         -          2,205 pounds (lb)
1 hectare (ha)           -          2.47 acres
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
GLOSSARY OF ACRONYMS
ACP       African, Caribean and Pacific Countries
AGB       Alimentation Gdn6rale du B#nin
BBD       Banque Beninoise pour le Developpement
BCB       Banque Commerciale du Benin
BCEAO     Banque Centrale des Etats de l'Afrique de l'Ouest
CCCE      Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique
CIB       Ceramique Industrielle du Benln
COBERAM Compagnie Beninoise de Navigation Maritime
IBETEX    Industrie Beninoise de Textile
OAAR      Office Beninois d'Aenagement Rural
OBEAR     Office Beninois des Arts
OBECI     Office BeninQis de Cln4mas
OBEMAP    Office Beninois de Manutention Portuaire
ONATHO    Office National de Tourisme et de Hotellerie
ONPB      Office National de Pharmacie du Benin
OPT       Office de Postes et de Tdlecommunications
SCB-      Societe du Ciment du BEnin
SCO       Soci6te du Ciment d'Onigbolo
SONACI    Societe Nationale du Ciment
SOGECOB   SocietE GEnerale du Commerce du Benin
SONAFEL   Societ6 Nationale des Fruits et des LEgumes
SONAE     Societe Nationale d'Equipements
SODIHAS   SociEte Nationale pour la Distribution de Materiels Solaires
SEE       SociEtE Beninoise de l'Eau et de l'tlectricite
SEB       SocietE d'Engrais du Benin
SSS       Societe Sucriere de Save
PAC       Port Autonome de Cotonou
11 The CFA franc (CFAF) is tied to the French Franc (FF) in the ratio of
FF1 to CFAF 50. The French Franc is currently floating.



FOR OMCIL USE ONLY
PEOP E S REPUBLIC OF BENIN
STNUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
CREDIT AND PROGRAM SUMMARY
Borrower X               People's Republic of B4nin
Credit Amount X          SDR 33.5 million (US$ 45 million equivalent)
Tomes s                  Standard, with 40 years maturity
Program
Description *            The proposed credit would-provide financial
support for Benin's program of economic and
financial recovery. The program aims at a
fundamental reorientation of lEnin's
development strategy from over-emphasis on the
state intervention in the economy to greater
reliance on private Initiative and market
forces. Specifically, the program aims at :
(a) reducing the role of the public sector in
the economy in order to focus it more on a core
set of services, and improve the management of
those services; (b) reinforcing public sector
resource management by further improving
investment planning and programming as well as
the management of the residual portfolio of
State enterprises; (c) restructuring the
banking system to enable it to resume effective
financial intermediation; and (d) reorganizing
incentive policies to promote private sector
activity, especially of small and medium scale
enterprises, through liberalizing trade (both
domestic and external), removing goods and
factor market rigidities.
Program Benefits s       The proposed program is essential if the public
sector is to overcome its financial and
institutional weaknesses, with a better balance
established between public and private sectors
to improve growth prospects. Particular
benefits are expected to accrue from the
restoration of viable public finances, a
rationalized and more efficient civil service,
the elimination of loss-making State
enterprises, and the restoration of a sound
banking system.
T,i document has . sted  distribution and may be used by ecipents onb In the peformane
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorizdton.



- As. -
Proar~m Risks t          The Government faces three risks in the
implementation of this program. First, further
terms of trade losses as a result of new drops
in the prices of the main exports could extend
the time needed for financial recovery.
Second, domestic political opposition to
reforms could re-omerge in segments of the
society that benefitted from previous public
sector employment and pricing policies but who
must now forego those privileges. The
arguments of opponents of free market policies,
who associate income disparities with the
private enterprise system, will acquire some
force if widespread income losses occur among
workers while private business entrepreneurs
appear to be doing well. Third, difficulties
in finding a foreign private bank willing to
establish in Benin could delay implementation
of the banking system reform component. These
risks are reduced by the program's focus on the
core issues, its full internalization, and the
expected donor support. Actions being taken to
strengthen resource mobilization and eliminate
waste will protect the financial viability of
the program. The broad-based doaestic
participation in the formulation of the program
has gained it wide acceptance internally.
Further, the measures designed to address cases
of poverty (unrelated to adjustment) as well as
alleviate the negative impact of lay-offs and
the civil service retrenchment will minimize
the extent of social dislocation that would
arise during its implementation. Finally, the
Government's clear statement of non-
interference in the running of the new bank and
the attitude towards private enterprise
evidenced in the recent and planned
privatization of key public enterprises
increase the prospects of finding a partner
within a reasonable time frame.
Estimated
Disbursements            The credit would be disbursed in two tranches,
of US$ 22.5 million equivalent each, the first
tranche being available upon effectiveness and
the second after a performance review to be
held about five months after effectiveness.



- iii a
TAB  OF CONTENTS
PART I.  THE ECONOMY
A. The Macroeconomic Context .............. ............ .... .. 1
-  Political Environmnt .......................*.....*...........2
-  Economic Situation ................ ............ 2
B.    Medium-Term Adjustment Issues ........................... 6
PART II. THE STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
Public Sector Reform .................................... 8
- Public Finances .......................................  8
- Public Employment and Pay         ........... .          9
- Public Administration  ..................... . 11
- Investment Planning ................................... ll
- Public Enterprise Reform ............. 12
Banking System Reform ................................... 13
Trade Policy Reform and Deregulation .................... 14
PART IIT.  THE PROPOSED CREDIT
A. Credit History ................................................ 16
B. Support of Policy Reform ........................... 16
C.  Effects of Adjustment    ......         .............. . 16
D. Benefits and Risks .............. . .......... . 20
S.  Social Impact ...................................... 21
F.  Disbursement, Administration and Procurement ....... 22
PART IV.  BANK GROUP OPERATIONS AND STRATEGY ...................... 25
PART Y.   COLLAWORATIONVITH DF AND OTHER DONORS .... .......... 27
PART VI. RECOMHENDATION..... .....................................28



I -
ANUU
AM3  I    - Socio-econosic Indicators
A1M1= II - Status of Bank Group Operations in Benin
AM=31 III - Supplementary Data Sheet
AN33  IV   - Statemnt of Developent Strategy
AM13 V    - Public Enterprise Refom  Action Plan, 1988-89
AN311 VI - Macroeconomic Projections



INTERNATIONAL DVELOPME  ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND BECO DION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A ROPOSED CRDIT
TO THE PEOPLEl'S EUMLIC OF BRN  FOR A
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMET PROGRM
1.        -I submit t'he following report and recomendation on a
proposed c.-edlt in an amount of SDt 33.5 million (US$ 4S amllion
equivalent) to the People's Republic of eonun to support the
Government's Structural Adjustment P:ogram. The proposed credit would
be on standard IDA terms with 40 years maturity including 10 years of
grace.
2.         A Country Economic Memorandum (Report No. 4686-BEN) was
dlstributed to the Executive Directors in March 1984.  The report chich
follows is based on the conclusions and recommendations of that
memorandum and the findings of recent economlc missions, including one
that appraised the proposed structural adjustment program in July 1988.
Updated country economic data are shown in Annex I.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
A. The Macroeconomic Context
Background
3.         Benin is a small country of 4 million people with an annual
income per capita of about USS 340 (1987). The economy's most Important
natural resource is its arable land, which enables the country to enjoy
overall food self-sufficiency as well as produce cash crops of which oil
palm and cotton are the most important. Oil palm is now In relative
decline owing to increasingly insufficient rainfall and its marketed
output has stagnated at about 300,000 tons of fresh fruit bunches over
the last few years. In contrast, cotton has experienced very rapid
growth over the past few years, its output rising from 20,000 tons in
1982/83 to about 130,000-tons in 1986187, due to improved incentive
pricing and Input distribution and extension system.  Food crops could
also easily become an important export item now that controls have been
lifted and private entrepreneurs allowed are to export.
4.         The overland cor.idor is another asset which, aided by the
excellent deep-sea port of Cotonou, the capital cLty, and the reasonably
good network of roads, provides transit services to neighboring land-
locked countrles. The brisk transit and re-export trade that occurred
In the Vest Africa region during the commodity boom years between 1976
and 1982 led to strong growth in the volume of traffic handled by the
port (an annual average of 5 percent). Similarly, the downturn in
regional trade after 1982, and the modest recovery since 1984, have been
reflected in the volume of throughput at the port.  A nascent industrial
sector producing mainly light consumer manufactures and accounting for
about 10 percent of GDP, a vigorous informal trade sector, and a small
offshore oilfield, with modest known reserves producing about 6000



-2-
barrels per day (18 percent of exports in 1987) and whose economic life
is expected to run through 1992, are the other main economic activities.
Political Environment
S.         Politically, Benin is organized as a one-party State, headed
by a military President who is both chairman of the Party's Politbureau
and Central Committee, and Head of Government. The President runs the
Government through a National Executive Council whose members, Ministers
and the Prefects of the six provinces, are selected In consultation with
the Politbureau. A National Revolutionary Assembly of elected
representatives is the law-making body, but it meets with long
intervals. Despite this institutional structure, political authority in
Benin is diffused, and important decisions are made only after prior
consultations have generated a consensus among key groups (tribes or
socio-economic groups like labor unions, Army etc.). The President
oversees the process, often arbitrating the conflicting interests of the
various groups until a common position is worked out on the particular
issue. This implied sharing of political power has given the country a
long period of stability (16 years since the frequent changes of
government ended). But it has also exacted a toll by rendering the
leadership virtually incapable of taking firm and prompt decisions on
policy matters except in extreme crisis. The cumbersome decision-making
process and opposition to reforms within the Politbureau on ideological
grounds have been responsible for the slow progress in the Bank's
economic policy dialogue with Benin and the delay in working out a
broad-based adjustment program. The Politbureau dropped its opposition
to comprehensive reforms when increasingly severe economic and financial
problems during 1986187 made it abundantly clear that the dirigiste
policies had failed. Three of its members currently serve full-time on
the National Commission set up in 1986 to prepare the reform program.
In addition, in July 1988 the Politbureau's presence in the Cabinet was
increased from four to seven members, partly to strengthen their
upstream involvement in the formulation of reforms and thus reduce
delays in decision-making on the adjustment program.
The Economic Situation
6.         During the period 1977-82, the Beninese economy performed
well on most accounts, achieving an average real growth of 5 percent,
with internal and external financial stability due, in part, to buoyant
investment activity under the First State Plan (1977-80), and in part,
to strong re-export trade with neighboring Niger and Nigeria, which were
then experiencing uranium and oil export-led booms. A reversal of these
trends began in 1983, when the booms in the neighboring economies ended
and Benin's own vigorous construction activity under the First State
Plan ended with the completion of the projects initiated at that time.
7.         The downturn in public investments occurred at the same time
that the re-export trade sharply declined. The recently completed
projects also turned out to be a major drain on the economy as they had,
in most cases, been of low quality and low return. With the



- 3 -
commencement of the debt service for the investments in this situation,
the economy entered a period of low growth with overall financial
decline. Between 1983 and 1987, real GDP growth averaged under 1
percent while the population grew at about 3 percent, and the public
finances and balance of payments registered deficits averaging 9 percent
and 7 percent of GDP respectively, which were covered mainly by internal
and external arrears.
8.         While the recent terms of trade deterioration and the post-
1982 slump in regional trade opportunities explain part of the present
difficulties, these are also the result of domestic policy errors of the
1975-82 period.   During that period, the Government sought to
accelerate growth and development by having the State become the owner
of the major modern sector activities. The State would thereby, it was
reasoned, have control over the surpluses generated by these activities
and would re-invest them to induce rapid growth. To implement these
ideas, most private sector businesses were nationalized, and several new
public sector enterprises were set up. In agriculture, collective
farming systems were actively promoted, State farms were set up, and
controls established on the trading of food crops. These initiatives
failed to yield the expected results, for a variety of reasons.
9.         Owing to the weight of social and political considerations
introduced into their management, even those businesses which did well
prior to nationalization faltered under public ownership. In addition,
many of the newly-created enterprises ran into an assortment of
problems, including poor initial design, inadequate managerial
capability, undercapitalization, and limited market opportunities. The
negative growth was particularly pronounced in the manufacturing sector,
its share in GDP declining from 6 percent during 1977-80 to 3 percent by
1985-87. In contrast agriculture, which remained predominantly in the
hands of the peasants and has benefitted from improved producer policies
and extension system since the early 1980s, raised its share
in GDP from 30 percent over 1977-80 to 35 percent during 1985-87.
10.        The initiatives of the 1975-82 period had equally unfortunate
financial outcomes. Internally, the public enterprises relied on the
banking system for financing which t!uld have been largely provided by
the budget. The banks, having themselves become public-sector
institutions through nationalization in 1975, failed to apply rigorous
standards in appraising public enterprise credit demands, and are now
virtually bankrupt, with an estimated 75 percent of the consolidated
portfolio of CPAP 149 billion (at end-1987) non-performing, owing mainly
to public enterprise failures. As of end 1987, the Banque Commerciale
du Benin (BCB) had CFAP 89 billion in outstanding loans of which 61
percent was non-performing. For the Banque BEninoise your le
D6veloppement (BBD), an amount of CPAP 42 billion was outstanding, with
60 percent classified as bad debt. In the case of the Caisse Nationale
de Credit Agricole (CNCA), an amount of CFAP 21 billion was outstanding,
of which 86 percent was non-performing. These events later resulted in
a major liquidity crunch in the banking system.   Externally, commercial
borrowing to finance the industrial projects undertaken under the First
State Plan raised the external debt five-fold (from CPAF 57 billion at
end-1978 to CFA? 259 billion at end-1983), and increased the debt



-4-
service, which rose Zrom about 3 percent of exports during 1977-78 to an
average of 38 percent during 1985-87. Meanwhile, in line with the
growing role of the public sector, the civil servlce grew in strength by
60 percent within six years (from 29,000 in 1980 to 47,000 in 1987), and
the central government wage bill tripled (from CPA? 15 billion to CPA?
45 billion).
11.        These trends were reflected in the public finances, the
monetary situation and the balance of payments (Table 1). The growing
personnel outlays raired current expenditures from about 13 percent of
CDP during 1981-84 to 14 percent during 1985-87. Although capital
expenditures were cut back after 1982 and have stabilized at about 7
percent during 1985-87, the overall deficit (including grants) still
averaged about 6 percent of GDP during 1985-87, about the same level as
in the preceding eight-year period. This is because the drop in transit
trade reduced revenues during 1983-84 and they have not recovered since
then, while the growing civil service and two general increases in the
minimum wage in 1980-82 raised the wage bill substantially. The
Government drew down all its deposits in the banking system to finance
the deficit, and became a net debtor to the banks by 1984. An estimated
CPAP 69 billion in domestic arrears was accumulated by the end of 1987.
Delays in meeting the payroll began in 1986 and worsened in 1988, with
civil serv'Luts' salaries delayed often for as long as three months.
This situation turned into a full crisis late in 1988 when the
proportion of taxes paid in liquid form fell as low as 10 percent of all
receipts.
12.        The monetary developments closely mirror the trends in
aggregate demand. Net domestic assets more than doubled during 1980-84
under the expansionary policies of that period but fell by about 12
percent three years later when domestic credit contracted as the econmy
slowed down. The BCEAO's refinancing facility was used extensively by
the CNCA and BBD, resulting in its exhaustion by 1987-88 (para. 35).
The net foreign assets position turned negative in 1982, and
deteriorated steadily through 1987, reflecting Benin's growing use of
the French Treasury Operations Account resources.  A 15 percent decline
in domestic credit in 1986-87, together with the deterioration in the
net foreign asset position, accounted for a 10 percent reduction in the
broadly defined money supply.
13.        In external transactions, the current account deficit reached
15 percent of GDP when the investment/GDP ratio attained 30 percent of
GDP ,n 1981-82. With the completion of the large projects, capital
imports declined in 1983 and 1984, stabilizing the following year.
Higher export earnings arising from the start of petroleum production
and increased output of cotton led to an improvement in the current
account balance, bringing the current account deficit/GDP ratio (before
grants) to under 10 percent during 1983-84. In spite of declines in
cotton and crude oil prices in 1985186, the current account/GDP ratio
(before grants) further declined to about 7 percent over 1985-87 owing
to a decline in imports. The overall deficit could not be fully



- 5 ~-
Table 1. Bmin: Rwrcoelum c indicators, 1977-1997
1977-60          1981-84           1985s 7
Real M  Gratm                    4.9               1.7             -0.3
lnwuse tiWLD                   20.1             18.8              12.7
CuiqJtImvl3                    100.7             105.8            100.2
Savbkq&GGP                      -0.7             -5.8              -0.2
Sector Shrea In GDP f.c. (M)
(strut Price.)
Primary                         41.7              41.2             46.0
Seomdairy                       11.0              13.7             13.8
Tertiary                        37.5             35.4              34.6
Ptbi lc Fimnos (M)
(,rent prIcs)
PAsrMW/                         15.3              14.3             11.9
ourrent Expenditwmss            12.6              13.8             14.4
Panmel ExendJU11P                6.8              9.2               8.2
capital  Oed./GOP               13.5              11.4              7.3
Overall 9sf icit/iP             -5.6             -5.4              -5.9
ialar of Pmet M
(wrrent prIces)
Ejports of GNFSUGOP             24.0             23.0              12.8
li orts c  NSEAP                39.6             37.2              24.8
urrent Mest/P                  -10.4             48.6              -7.0
Overall  Damla                 -0.9             -3.5              -6.1
Oebt ServiceDoxS                 2.4              8.9              38.0
Oebt Servioe i usn               4.1              28.9             67.2
Real Exr*lg PAtU lnvi                                                   /a
(OaMs 1 a80m100)               100.0            124.1             108.9
khWsy ad Credit
(in CAF bililen, endof-period)
Net Forelgi Asets               -7.6            -24.4             -52.6
Net Oentlc Asfts               62.7             155.2            138.5
Not Clail  an Gowlt          -15.2              14.1             11.8
Not Claim en Priv. Seotor    77.9              141.1            124.9
Of dich BCA0Fmned           (22.8)            (41.1)           (48.9)
NWe ad CuOasibNeny             61.4             110.8             98.8
a/ Osf ned as relative price-msiptsd CFAFrA3 rate.
Souro: Off lcial data and BEtk Staff estinates.



- 6-
financed in any of these years and arrears were accumulated, principally
on debt service obligations. External debt arrears reached US$ 243
million at end-1987 (counting only lenin's share in the bi-national debt
for Onigbolo Cement and Save Sugar).
14.        Thus, mainly as a result of the policies iplemented during
the mid-to-late 19709, the Government now faces a situation where it has
suppressed formal private sector activity and established a non-
performing public sector apparatus with extremely weak public finances,
a bankrupt banking system, and an unmanageable external debt burden.
Efforts since 19&3 to initiate reforms have been limited to improved
agricultural producer pricing (cotton), reducing capital expenditures
and reforming public investment programming and project selection, and
initiating the restructuring of the public enterprise sector. The
development of a full reform program was hampered by lagging political
Will.
D. Medium-Term Adiustment Issues
15.        The medium-term adjustment issues facing Benin are twofold.
A first set of issues relates to the effects of exogenous factors such
as the weak export market price prospects for Benin's main cash crops
(palm oil and cotton), the depreciation of the dollar vis-a-vis the CFA
franc, and the slump in regional trade opportunities. All of these
require Benin to take steps to improve the international competitiveness
of its products. Second, there are the issues arising from the largely
unsuccessful dominant role played by the public sector in the economy
for more than a decade, and the distortions created by past policies
which must be addressed to create a more suitable environment for
private initiative.
16.        Unfavorable External Market Situation and Declining
International Competitiveness. World market prices for the main foreign
exchange earners, palm oil and cotton, weakened dramatically after
1984. According to recent projections, neither is expected to regain
the 1984 level before the year 2000, although palm oil prices are
expected to recover more rapidly. With even moderate inflation rates
for imports the terms of trade losses are considerable compared with
1984 (Table 2). The negative impact of the declining export prices on
agricultural incomes and incentives is compounded by the recent
appreciation of the CPA franc in terms of the US dollar. These external
price developmei?.s also mean, given domestic price tren.i, reductions in
the International competitiveness of Benin's tradeable goods sector.
Given the present fixed ClAPIFF parity, Benin must rely on Internal
productivity gains and real exchange rate shifts, made possible in part
by changes in expenditure policy (compression and shifts In
composition), to increase -the international competitiveness of its
products.



Table 2. tIENM - Terms g Trade. 1H04-1
1064 108S 19      67"? ME          11 1990 lw01M9  106
Ewort Price Inex  100.0  9J.9  5.?  3.1  70.5  00.9  OC.0  0.0  95.7 101.2
ISport Prece led.x  100.0 101.1 113.5 113.4 168.0 107.8 170.4 170.4 101.9 106.7
Term* of Tred* Iex, 100.0  02.9  4.6   20.9  4.0  40.8  50.4  50.0  51.2  61.7
17.      Weak Resource Position.  With the public sector being a large net
dis-saver over the recent past, gross domestic savings have shrunk. averaging
-0.2 percent of GDP (current prices) during 1985 - 8V. With regard to foreign
savings, large scheduled external debt service (30 percent of consolidated
government revenues and export earnings, respectively) reduce net foreign
inflows when the payments are made; when they are not made, such obligations
cause the interruption of new gross inflows. Both outcomes have the same
ultimate negative effect on investment. In order to relax the resulting
resource constraint, productive efficiency must be increased, costs reduced,
and consumption contained, while generous external debt restructuring is
sought.
18.      Distorted Incentive Framework and Market Rigidities.  The regulatory
framework developed to shield the parastatal enterprises and the impact of the
tax system have resulted in a highly distorted incentive system. These
policies have also created an environment limiting market responsiveness of
factors and products, with the effect of reducing resource allocation
efficiency and growth. Examples include price controls, excessive regulation
of the labor market, and the restriction of some areas of economic activity to
public sector entities. Efforts will have to be made to correct the
distortions and to open up markets in order to endow the economy with the
flexibility needed to adjust to changing circumstances and ensure stronger
growth in the long term.
PART II - THE STRUCStURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
19.      With the assistance of the Bank and the IMP, Benin has formulated a
program of economic and financial reforms to be implemented over the period
1989-91 which reflect a radical re-orientation of its economic policies in
favor of the private sector. The main objective of this Structural Adjustment
Program (SAP) is to raise the real GDP growth rate over the medium term to
about 3 percent annually within a viable macroeconomic framework. The
Government has set forth its reform program in a Statement of Development
Strategy (Annex IV). The program encompasses essentially reform of the
current budget and general public sector management (paras. 20-29);
reinforcement of the quality of investment planning and prograuming (paras.
30-31); deepening and amplifying of the public enterprise sector reform under
way (paras. 32-34); the restructuring of the banks (paras. 35-38); and reform
of trade policy and deregulation of markets (paras. 39-43). These reforms are
to be accompanied by measures to aid the poor and also minimize the negative
social impact of the changes on those likely to experience income losses
during the adjustment process, while preparing the transition to enable the
lower income groups to participate in the benefits of growth.



-8-
Public Sector Reform
20.      Public Finance.  The objective here is to restore the viability of
public sector finances as the essential ingredient in restoring macroeconomic
balance and improve allocation of resources by (i) strengthening resource
mobilization; (ii) reducing and restructuring current expenditure and taking
steps to contain its subsequent growth; (iii) improving the funding of
supplies and materials especially for maintenance, agricultural extension
services, education and health. These efforts should also generate savings to
support development projects.
21.      Resource Mobilization.  The Beninese tax system currently yields
revenues equal to 10-11 percent of GDP, although in times of brisk re-export
trade, this ratio has gone as high as 16-17 percent. The tax structure is
complex, and some of its provisions discriminate against local industry and
investment. The tax system will therefore be reformed to make it easier to
administer, to improve its yield from 10 to 13 percent of GDP by 1991 (even
under the conditions of depressed re-export trade), while at the same time to
eliminate its disincentive effects to local industry and investment.
22.      A start was made in this area in 1987, drawing on the recommendations
of a 1985 IMP report on the fiscal system. The main import tariff, taxe
fiscale d'entree (TFE), was raised on a number of products and the low
officially-fixed (mercurial) bases used to tax some products were adjusted
upwards or replaced altogether with c.i.f. values, and an advance partial
payment requirement was introduced for business profit taxes, impot sur les
benefices industriels et commerciaux (BIC), and impOt sur les ben6fices non-
commerciaux (BNC). The tax changes resulted in a revenue increase of CPAP 1.4
billion in the one quarter in which they were applied before the year ended,
and the advance payment requirement for business taxes achieved a-once-for-all
revenue increase of ClAP 3.5 billion. In July 1988, quantitative restrictions
and prohibitions on imports (textiles, non-alcoholic beverages, vegetable oils
and others) were removed and import taxes were put in place instead.
23.      In addition, as a start towards improving tax administration, the
following actions were taken in December 1988: the first set of microcomputers
to aid record keeping were installed; work on updating the valuation and
assessment methods for domestic and external taxes was launched; and a program
of continuous in-service training was introduced. The statistical tax on
imports was raised to 5 percent and a 3 percent downpayment on imports against
profit taxes was introduced (March 1989). Further major efforts at tax system
reform to be undertaken as part of the adjustment program include the
transformation of the internal turnover tax, impOt sur le chiffre d'affaires
interieur (ICAI), into a general expenditure tax. taxe sur le chiffre
d'affaires (TCA) applicable to domestic goods and services as well as imports.
This tax will incorporate a tax credit to avoid cascade effects, and will be
used to absorb a number of specific earmarked taxes. Its introduction will be
coordinated with the more thorough reform of the main revenue source, import
taxes. The specific decisions will be based on the results of an evaluation
of import and related indirect taxation to be conducted during the first
quarter of 1989 (concurrently with a study of industrial tariff protection,
para. 41). An action plan to implement its recommendations will be agreed



with the Bank and the Fund by September 1989 to permit its introduction with
the 1990 budget.
24.      Public Emploament and Pay.   The near-doubling of the civil service
in six years, combined with the upward creep in the average wage, has caused
a personnel expenditure explosion. When the situation rose to a head in '986
with the appearance of delays in meeting the payroll, the Government devised a
two-phase approach to tackling the problem: first, improving the personnel
data base and eliminating suspected inefficiencies in the administration of
the payroll; second, reducing the size of the civil service to achieve a once-
for-all substantial reduction in personnel expenditures, and modifying public
employment policy in order to keep the future size and cost of the civil
service under control while improving its general efficiency. The application
of the first phase began in 1986 with a census of the civil service, followed
by its use to eliminate payment irregularities (cases of ghost employees and
Instances of double payments resulting from delayed processing of documents of
new employees) as vell as to catch up on the application of retirement
regulations. These actions achieved a saving of about CFAF 2 billion in 1987,
or 5 percent of the gross payroll, and resulted in the belated retirement of
some 200 staff. Next, a directive was issued ending automatic recruitment of
all new graduates into the civil service. All these were followed in 1988 by
a 10 percent reduction in the wage bill through the abolition of housing
allowances for civil servants and the military. However, the personnel
records had to be updated, entailing the regularization of the status of about
1200 employees whose wages had to be adjusted upwards. As a result, total
personnel expenditures in 1988 fell to CFAF 42 billion, compared with CFAF 45
billion in 1987.
25.      Under the SAP, the Government will seek to achieve further reductions
In the wage bill and contain its subsequent growth through a program of
voluntary separation from the civil service and the rigorous application of
the regulations on retirement. The program of voluntary separation from the
civil service started in April 1989.  It is based on an estimate of the
interested population identified in an opinion survey, who are being
encouraged (selectively in order to retain those with needed skills) to leave
with financial compensation. The program takes into account the fact that,
unlike in other countries, the private sector in Benin is very small and
leavers wishing to enter gainful self-employment in the private sector must be
aided technically in the early stages. The leavers will therefore be able to
obtain that advice from the Private Sector Promotion Unit that is being set up
concurrently (para. 26). At present, the Government's aim is to have by 1991
a civil service numbering about 41,000 personnel, with expenditures of around
CPAF 37 billion, compared with the current 47,000 and personnel expenditures
of CFAP 45 billion in 1987. This will be achieved in part through the
retirement of some 2000 civil servants who would have attained 55 years of age
or have rendered 30 years of service, as prescribed by the Civil Service Code.
The remaining 4000 reduction is expected to result from the voluntary
departures. It is estimated that the voluntary departure program would coit
about CPAF 8.0 billion to implement. Some donors (e.g., the European
Development Fund and France) have already expressed their willingness to
contribute to the financing of this component of the reform program through
non-reimbursable grants to facilitate redeployment in private sector



- 10 -
activities.
26.      A related issue to be tackled is the absorption of the new graduates
from Benin's institutions of higher learning. As in many other francophone
African countries, prior to January 1987, these graduates were all guaranteed
jobs in the civil service. In the light of the abolition of the wholesale and
automatic recruitment, the institutional arrangements being set up to support
reduction of the size of the civil service have been broadened to incorporate
measures to help such new graduates find gainful employmenttself-employment
outside the public sector. At the request of the Government, an ILO team
financed by the UNDP studied employment opportunities for new graduates
outside the public sector. The study released in February 1988 identified
project ideas which offer a starting point for a self-employment program.
%nother study conducted by UNIDO in 1987 examined the issue of the creation of
a unit to aid the development of private sector business. Using the findings
of the two studies, the Government will set up a Private Sector Promotion
Center that would aid the existing private sector as well as the young
aspirants leaving the school system or the civil service.
27.      Recurrent Cost Fundins.  The rapid growth in personnel expenditures
has crowded out not only allocations for public infrastructure maintenance and
services, supplies and materials in government offices, but also supplies
needed to deliver health and education services. Efforts to remedy the
situation began in 1986-87 in the context of the IDA-assisted Transport
Infrastructure Rehabilitation and Second Water Supply project, with the design
of measures to improve allocations as well as improve the efficiency with
which the allocations are used. In the case of road maintenance, the Road
Fund is being reinforced, as from January 1988, by giving it more resources
and a reinforced institutional structure. During 1989-91, these resources
will cover 100 percent of all routine maintenance, 30 percent periodic
maintenance of earth roads, and 10 percent of periodic maintenance of paved
roads. The remainder of the road maintenance costs will be provided through
progressively declining foreign assistance. The above reforms being
undertaken under other IDA-assisted projects will be complemented under the
SAP by measures dealing with utilities and the social sectors.
28.      In the area of utilities, the consumption of public servants,
formerly paid from the budget, will now E financed from fixed monetary
allowances included in the salaries of tLe beneficiaries. A decree to this
effect was issued in 1987, and telephone connections in the homes of officials
have been transferred into the names of the beneficiaries (July 1988); those
for water and electricity were made in December 1988. In the case of health
and education supplies, new budgeting procedures leading to improvements will
be initiated under the adjustment program. As a first step towards improving
allocations, the 1989 budgetary requirements were prepared on the basis of
detailed work programs. Nevertheless, general expenditure cuts necessitated
by the public finance difficulties would make it impossible to fund, from
national sources, the higher level of non-wage expenditures judged adequate
for the social sectors during 1989-91. The Government has, therefore, set up
a Social Fund into which the contribution of external donors will be channeled
for the support of these sectors. The approach to budgeting according to work
programs will be refined in 1990-91 and extended to other areas.



- 11 -
29.          Public Administration.  The Government is also determined to
reform the public administration apparatus in order to modernAie and adapt it
to its role under the new development strategy - the efficient provision of
the core public sector services that support future private sector-led growth
and development. Towards achieving this goal, the government has outlined
an action program consisting of (i) using the recently compiled computer
records to prepare the profile of the civil service in terms of the size and
distribution by Ministries and other agencies, as well as skills, grades and
wage levels; and (ii) reviewing the basic personnel management texts to
identify provisions that need to be changed to make the civil service
structure lighter and easier to manage; (iii) an analysis of the structure of
the Administration and Ministries' assignments and preparation of revised
organigrams where necessary and (iv) proposal of a new staffing plan by size,
functions and skills, accompanied by proposals for in-depth reform. The first
two tasks were accomplished in November 1988 and the remainder are on-going.
The operation is carried out under the coordination of the Ministry of Labor
and Social Affairs, but with the technical work being done by the Adjustment
Commission's sub-commission on civil service reform, assisted by technical
expertise provided by the Ecole Nationale d'Administration of the University
of Quebec. The services of the technical assistants are being paid for under
the IDA-supported Technical Assistance Project (Cr. 1530-BEN). Given the
complexity of such an operation and its relation to the personnel reduction
program, the bulk of it will be prepared and reviewed with the Bank during
1989-90 and its implementation begun in 1990.
30.      Investment Planning.  Investment planning procedures adopted in mid-
1986 have improved the annual investment program. The annual programs are now
compiled by subjecting each proposed project to scrutiny for technical,
financial and economic justification. Where the project concerned is
industrial or commercial in character, a minimum 10 percent economic rate of
return and a 12 percent financial rate are required. Social sector projects
are screened for cost-effectiveness and conformity with sector strategies,
taking account of recurrent costs. The investment programs now average about
9 percent of GDP, which is more in keeping with the resource constraints and
the absorptive capacity, compared with 18 -20 percent of GDP during 1984-85
which was far beyond the Government's capacity to finance and execute.
Sectoral distribution of investments has also improved with agriculture and
infrastructure being given priority over industry which was over emphasized
during the preceding plan period, 1978-82. To improve project monitoring
capacity, investment programming sheets (fiches de programmation et suivi)
better adapted to the new procedures were developed in 1985-86 and seminars
held in July 1986 to familiarize users with them. These actions were
accomplished in the context of the dialogoue based on Bank economic reports
(Report Nos. 5910-BEN, FY86 and 6951-BEN, FY88) and a Technical Assistance
Project (IDA Credit 1530-BEN).
31.      The Government intends to build on this foundation to further
Increase the efficiency of resource allocation by keeping the general
framework as well as the projects consistent with the macroeconomic outlook
and objectives of the adjustment period. A satisfactory general framework for
1988-92 has been developed in the draft Third State Plan. The detailed
programming of investments will be done in three-year rolling programs, in



- 12 -
order to retain a degree of flexibility In the face of uncertainties in the
external and internal environments. Accordingly, for the period of the SAP, a
three-year program (1989-91) drawn from the medium-term Plan was discussed and
agreed with the Bank in November 1988 and adopted In December 1988. As to the
project portfolio, the Government has decided to strive for higher quality by
applying Internal rate of return criteria to all projects amenable to such an
analysis. In the case of social sector projects, the least cost criterion
will continue to apply. In order to complement these efforts with better
management of the portfolio, project execution monitoring is being further
strengthened.
32.      Public Enterprise Reform.   The public enterprise reform program
being Implemented with the support of Public Enterprises Rehabilitation
Project (IDA Credit 1748-BEN) aims at reforming the institutional framework in
which the public enterprises operate, liberalizing their pricing decisions,
and rationalizing the sector (liquidation of those to be disposed of,
privatization and restructuring of those that remain) to one that can be
managed efficiently. To date, progress has been made on several fronts in
keeping with targets. In February 1988, a new law defining Government-
enterprise relationships (Loi 88-005) was adopted to give greater autonomy to
enterprise managers and the Boards of Directors in return for greater
accountability. Twelve enterprises have been dissolved and are under
liquidation (CIB-ceramics, TRANSBENIN-trucking, IBETEX-textiles, SONATRAC and
SOTRACOB-freight handling and forwarding, SOGECOB-household appliances,
SODIHAS-school books, TAB-air transportation, SONAFEL-fruits and legumes,
ONPB-pharmac), OBAR-farmland preparation, and OBEAR-entertainment. Six have
been privatized (SONAE-vehicles and equipment, AGB-imported consumer goods,
OBECI-cinemas, ONATHO-hotels, RAVINAR-ship outfitting, and LA BENINOISE-soft
drinks and beer, for which negotiations with the potential partne- is
underway). The progress made so far is in keeping with the targets of the
project.
33.      Restructuring efforts are also on-going in the Port Autonome de
Cotonou (PAC), the Societe B6ninoise d'Eau et d'Electricite (SBEE), and the
Office Beninois de Manutention Portuaire (OBEMAP) and are envisaged for the
Office des Postes et des Telecommunications (OPT) as part of projects
supported by IDA, the CCCE and other donors. The individual programs are
being implemented through actions focussing on the enterprises' tariff policy,
investment priorities and financial management -- for all of which performance
indicators have been agreed between IDA and the Government for the 1989-92
period.
34.      Under the SAP, the objectives of reducing the sector's financial
losses and increasing its contribution to growth through an appropriate
mixture of divestiture and restructuring efforts will be further pursued on
the basis of a new overall portfolio review completed in July 1988. The
review identified 2 enterprises as candidates for liquidation, 7 as candidates
for privatization, and 10 as enterprises to study in-depth for possible
rehabilitation. An action plan (Annex V) has been developed for the
liquidation and privatization as well as the diagnostic studies decided on the
basis of the portfolio review. Diagnostic studies have already been launched
on six of the enterprises (SCB, SONACI, and SCO-cement, BSS-.ugar, SEB-



- 13 -
fertilizer, SONICOG-fats and oils, and COBENAM-shipping). These diagnostic
studies will permit further winnowing including selection of the enterprises
worth retaining and rehabilitating. In cases where rehabilitation programs
would be prepared, new statutes and enterprise contracts based on the revised
framework law (pars. 32) will be used to clarify objectives as well as
reciprocal rights and responsibilities. At the same time, systematic
procedures have been developed for pursuing privatization which, past
experience has shown, can be difficult to achieve efficiently. Meanwhile,
through the annual public investment program and parastatal budget reviews to
be carried out by Bank staff as part of the ongoing dialogue, the expenditure
plans of all the enterprises will continue to be closely monitored. A
monitoring system (tableau de bord), with indicators enabling performance
review, has been prepared for the use of the supervising ministries (Finance
and Justice). The first full report based on the monitoring system will be
produced in September 1989. Finally, the Government has decided that no new
enterprises will be created during the period of the first SAP except in cases
of involving a minority share in an enterprise in a strategic sector (such as
petroleum). Specific guidelines for decision making in those circumstances
were developed in the second half of 1988 and, after review by the Bank, have
been put in place in January 1989.
Banking System Reform
35.      Following a detailed supervision report on the Beninese banks by the
BCEAO in August 1984, the Government undertook a number of corrective measures
in the banking system. These included an overhaul of the accounting system,
the re-instatement of Credit Committees on which the BCEAO is represented, and
a change to taxing banks on their real rather than presumed profits, as was
the practice in the past. Though badly needed, these selected measures were
not enough to solve the banks' problems. Those problems became exacerbated in
the last quarter of 1987 as a result of an exodus of funds from the system
following a government decision to sequester the bank deposits of tax
delinquents. Prior to this event, the banks were already vulnerable owing to
the large share of non-performing loans in their balance sheets and their
illiquidity (para. 10). Furthermore, prior rediscounting by the CNCA and the
BBD of some of their poor quality assets at the BCEAO had exhausted the
economy's rediscount facility at the Central Bank. The exodus of funds under
those circumstances accentuated the liquidity crisis, leaving the BCB, in
particular, unable to honor clients' requests for withdrawals or external
transfers. This intensification of the difficulties of the banking system's
problems led the Authorities to request twice from the BCEAO an exceptional
increase in Benin's rediscount facility to permit the banks access to some
additional liquidity while a lasting solution to the problem is sought. That
request has been met by the granting of temporary facilities outside the
normal ceiling, of, first, CFAF 6.8 billion in January 1988 and a further CFAF
7.8 billion in August 1988 outside the normal ceiling.
36.      With Bank and IMF assistance, a program of actions to achieve longer-
term viability of the banking system has been worked out. These actions
comprise: (i) liquidation of the CNCA (currently under way) and the
reorganization of the rural credit network involving its regional and local
affiliates (CRCAM and CLCAM) on the basis of the results of a study completed



- 14 -
affiliates (CRCAM and CCAM) on the basis of the results of a study completed
In September 1988 and being deepened in the first half of 1989 ; (U) creation
of a new bank with majority share held by a foreign private banking entity;
(Wii) the liquidation of the BCB and 8BD; (iv) rescheduling of the banks'
debts to the BCEAO with the Government on terms compatible with the public
fiance situation; and (vi) general reinforcement of the supervisory and
regulatory framework of the banking system. The search for a private sector
Is taking longer than initially foreseen. Meanwhile, in order to prevent
further deterioration of the existing banks, the Authorities have decided to
place the BCB and BBD under interim administration by a team of foreign
experts proposed by the BCEAO and France. The Bank and the IMF concur with
the assignment and have found the technical qualification of the team
acceptable. The team has the responsibility of (i) ensuring a minimum level
of banking services during the transition period; (ii) assisting with the
implementation of the program for the recovery of the banks" claims on the
private sector; (iii) supervising the auditing of individual accounts and the
reimbursement of depositors along the lines of the priorities established and
(iv) generally overseeing the liquidation process.
37.      The scheme adopted for the restructuring will require that the
Government assume net liabilities of about CFAF 150 billion, of which CFAF 64
billion constitutes debts to the BCEAO, CFAP 18 billion represents short- and
medium-term external debts, and CPAF 69 billion is debt to the Beninese
private sector and public enterprises in form of time and demand deposits.
Agreement has been reached with the BCEAO on the consolidation of CPAF 37
billion of its claims and a timetable for the payment of the remainder. The
Government seeks to consolidate the claims of other external creditors on
terms at least as favorable as those accorded by the BCEAO. The Authorities
will, however, reimburse small private deposits (after verification in an
audit underway) and portions of those belonging to enterprises, with the
priority given to private enterprises in good standing with the Treasury and
the banks and public enterprises undergoing restructuring.
38.      The net budgetary costs of the above program have been estimated
provisionally at CFA? 10-12 billion annually for the 1989-91 period, based on
the scenario described in para. 37. These estimates will be revised when
appropriate consolidation terms are decided for the treatment of private
sector deposits not reimbursed immediately, and on the basis of other detailed
plans for operating BCB in the interim period to be worked out by the
Government by end May 1989, with the assistance of the interim administrators.
The identification of an interested foreign bank, a suitable work-out with
BCEAO, and the availability of external assistance to finance the Government's
cash injection are all crucial to the success of the program. Contacts with
potential private sector partners continue with a view to arriving at an
agreement by mid-1989 and having a new bank in operation in the third quarter
of 1989.
Trade Policy Reform and Deregulation
39.      In the early years of the development of the public enterprise sector
through nationalization, indigenous private sector SMEs were spared. Owing to
that experience and the general public enterprise bias of national policy, it
has made good business sense for local entrepreneurs to keep their activities
small and unnoticed, and to expand laterally, if need be, rather than
vertically. Cumbersome business licensing, labor management and general



- is -
reporting requirements--all of which small enterprises, but not large ones
could avoid--reinforced these trends. On the other hand, public and certain
privileged private sector enterprises are able to obtain benefits under the
Investment Code that compensate, if not over compensate, them for the fiscal
system's and other disincentive effects while the bulk of private enterprises
remain penalized.
40.      The Second State Plan declared the Government's desire to see the
private sector play a greater role in the economy, but concrete actions to
give content to that declaration have so far been limited to: (i) abolition of
the State monopoly on the import of most consumer goods; (ii) initiation of
pricing policy reform by shortening the list of goods for which prices are set
administratively and making the procedures for ex-post control of others
lighter; (iii) permitting private operators to trade in food crops; and, more
recently, (iv) abolition of quantitative restrictions and prohibitions on
imports of selected goods produced locally. Under the adjustment program, the
Government intends to go beyond those first steps and give the SME sector
real impetus in order to have it make a stronger contribution to growth and
employment generation in the years ahead. This objective will be sought
through a series of trade policy reform and deregulation measures.
41.      The impact of the regulatory framework and the tariff structure
developed over the past decade have, among other things, discouraged private
sector activity in the industrial sector. In order to reduce industrial
sector losses and strengthen its contribution to growth in a rationalized
policy framework, the Government plans to reform relevant trade policies in a
two-step approach. The first step taken in July 1988 involved removing QRs
and prohibitions on all imports and replacing them with tariffs. In the
second step, the Government is evaluating the framewerk of industrial tariff
protection and import taxation concurrently in a study launched in November
1988 (para. 23), with a view to devising measures to rationalize the structure
of industrial incentives in a manner consistent with the program's revenue
objectives. An action plan to implement these actions will be agreed with the
Bank in the second half of 1989. The Government also plans in 1989 to
liberalize trade further by abolishing import licensing for the bulk of
Benin's imports (Franc Zone, EEC, and ACP countries).
42.      In the area of exports, the Government has taken measures to promote
the development of food crops into a structural export item (para. 3) and
stimulate the growth of secondary cash crops. This was done through the
liberalization of the marketing of food crops, both at home as well as for
exports, and the opening up of trade in secondary cash crops to the private
sector (December 1988).
43.      In order to introduce greater flexibility into the business
environment and facilitate the functioning of markets, the Government has
abolished price controls for all goods except a small number of essentials (7
as against 25 previously). Next, it will (i) revise business registration,
licensing and reporting requirements to make them lighter and easier for all
businesses to comply with; (ii) amend the labor laws to allow greater
flexibility in the hiring and firing of labor; and (iii) revise the
Investment Code to make it neutral as between public and private enterprises,



- 16 -
and as regards size and factors, to make its application more transparent, and
reduce its privileges over time. The actions required to introduce these
changes were discussed by Bank staff and Government in July 1988, and the
appropriate revisions to existing texts are under way. The decrees and laws
to implement (i) and (ii) will be adopted by September 1989. In the case of
(iii) a first draft commented upon by the Bank in April 1989 will be further
discussed internally in Benin, including with the private sector, and an
action plan outlining the steps towards its adoption will be prepared by
September 1989.
PART III - THE PROPOSED CREDIT
A. Credit History
44.      The proposed credit will support Benin's structural adjustment
program, the elaboration of which has been made possible by Bank economic
missions during 1986-88 and inputs from the IDA-financed tecbnical assistance
project. A March/April 1988 mission helped identify the main elements of
adjustment and assisted the Government in preparing its Statement of
Development Strategy. The structural adjustment program was appraised in
June/July 1988. Negotiations were held in Washington in November 1988; the
Beninese delegation was headed by H.E. Didier Dassi, Minister of Finance.
Supplementary credit data are provided in Annex ITI.
B. Support of Policy Reform
45.      The proposed operation would support Benin's economic stabilization
efforts and help consolidate recent adjustment measures into a comprehensive
program of medium-term adjustment of the economy, focusing mainly on public
sector management reforms, banking system rehabilitation and improving the
incentive environment for private sector development to encourage the
expansion of productive activities. The Government has provided the Bank with
a Statement of Development Strategy which articulates the principles of
restructuring the economy and describes the specific measures that have been
taken and will be taken to implement the program (Annex IV). These measures
are summarized in the Policy Matrix annexed to the Statement of Development
Strategy. The proposed credit would ease Benin's financial constraint during
the adjustment period, not only with respect to external capital requirements,
but also by increas'ng budgetary resources especially to permit the payment of
the costs associated with the restructuring of the banks.
C. Effects of Adjustment
46.      Benin is undertaking a major re-orientation of its development
strategy in the direction of greater reliance on market forces to drive the
growth and development process. The objective is to lay the foundation for
sustainable growth over the longer term within a stable macroeconomic
framework. Recognizing the errors in the past policies of State control of
all major modern sector activities, the program will seek to reduce the size
and role of the public sector and concentrate it on providing a core set of
public services while removing impediments to the growth of the private
sector. This should facilitate stronger performance in agriculture--both cash



- 17 -
and food crops--and lead to the re-emergence of formal SHE activities
especLally in the secondary and tertiary sectors as new sources of growth and
employment.
Macroeconomic Impact of Program
47.      It is expected that the measures being taken in the context of the
adjustment program will enable the cotton subsector to weather the world
market price decline and still attain the projected maximum output level of
150,000 tons by 1990. Together with improved performance of food crops, which
can be expected, particularly as a result of the recent measure to free
exports of food, this should ensure that primary sector value added grows by
an average annual rate of 3 percent over the period 1989-92 (Table 3). In the
secondary sector, further public enterprise rehabilitation, including the
recently-completed physical rehabilitation of the major industrial plant (La
Beninoise, producer of beer and soft drinks) which was damaged by an explosion
in 1986, and the intended privatization of the enterprise (whose level of
operation greatly influences the demand for, and output of, water and
electricity), the restructuring of the cement subsector, and the commencement
of the delayed investments in the S4mb Oil project (assisted by IDA and RIB)
should reverse the recent decline and permit an average annual industrial
growth rate of 2 percent over the next five years. In addition, expected
recovery in the commerce and transport services in respense to liberalization
should more than offset the expected stagnation in government services to
permit a tertiary sector average growth rate of 3 percent over the 1989-92
period. These developments should lead to real GDP growth rates averaging 3
percent during the period of the first SAL (1989 - 91) and about 4 percent
thereafter when the policy changes begin to have their full impact.
48.      The present macroeconomic disequilibrium is evident in the high
aggregate consumption and the consequent poor savings effort. This reflects
mainly the imbalances in the public sector and has its counterpart in a weak
external current account balance. The program envisages achieving some
reduction in government consumption. It is expected that, as a result of the
reduction in real government consumption during 1988-89 and its stagnation
thereafter, public savings equal to 1 percent of GDP would emerge in 1990 and
increase steadily aftezwards. By curbing the role of the public sector, and
shifting resources into the tradeable sector the program should enable exports
to grow at 5 percent per annum in real terms. As a result, in spite of
slightly higher imports, especially of capital linked with the higher
investment/GDP ratio (from 12 percent in 1988 to 13 percent in 1991), the
external current account/GDP ratio should improve from a deficit (before
grants) of 9.6 percent in 1988 to 8 percent In 1991. The measures aimed at
reducing the public finance imbalances and eliminating public enterprise
financial losses together with restored confidence in a rehabilitated banking
system, should result in an improvement of the savings effort and the gradual
narrowing of the savings-investment gap while permitting a modest increase in
the investment ratio (Table 3). The relatively cautious expectation about the
response of exports to the adjustment measures takes into account (i) the low
competitiveness of Beninese manufactures owing to the higher cost structure
relative to neighbouring Nigeris, for example; and (ii) the gradual leveling-
off of crude oil production by 1991 unless new discoveries are made.



- 18 -
24tr-49                      Table 3. rnIn: woo  ruotr with AdM ~t
19     137    1ow           190   lo"
ecti  Prol a.  Eftim.       - perod awrs -
GO at M.p.                -1.1   -8.6    1.8              2.9    3.7
- prary                   6.0    4.7    2.3              3.0    4.7
-Sandry                  -9.8    a.5    2.0              2.4    3.0
- TertIary                0.2    0.5    1.0              2.2    2.5
Ebort                    -23.4   13.4  -12.1              4.7    2.8
lrts                      -4.3    2.2   -3.4              3.2    2.8
Cnmwt lm                   4.1   -4.5   -0.8              2.1    3.1
oh Privat Per Capita            -4.2    2.1              0.2    0.5
l _wetmt                           5.9   -3.0             7.      5.0
IbtIaul Ilu                       -0.1    0.8             3.3    8.4
Tumof Trade ibx           4.6   52.9   48.8              49.9   50.9
( 1! * 100 )
Curret Act.,WM            -8.7   -8.0   -9.              -8.4   -7.8
tabie 4.  min: Grow firra  Rawirts
198    1980   1801 1991
ra  fInamirg Rpuirts 1/                    500    m       138     16
To be at by:
Project Ln                                se    8Os      W      248
Dobt bitf                                274      S       8     XS0
IDA Sl.                                   45      0       0      45
IwS w                                     9      12       9      30
Gap                                      112    im       74    287
1/ Isrent dmsat def Icit plu ectmI arrusi, mortlutian
an roitla  In burkirpa's net foreig I ibi I itiS Il  capital graft
ad act-te  caital. See kms VI tble 3.
98w: OffIolal dat  nd 98'k Staff estlute  ad project lam.



* 19 -
49.      The average Investment rate of 13 percent is projected for 1989-91
which, in view of the 3 percent average growth rate, implies the maintenance
of an incremental capital-output ratio of about 4:1, compared with an average
of 5:1 for the period 1978-87. This embodies the expected improvoment in the
quality of capital expenditures during the period 1989-91 on the basis of the
enhanced investment planning and project selection procedures (paras. 30-31).
External Canital Requirements and Financing Sources
50.      The above scenario assumes that the appropriate supply response will
be forthcoming and that the external financial resources will be available to
cover the economy's import requirements and permit a reduction of the net
foreign liabilities (i.e. raise reserves to about one week of imports), the
elimination of external arrears and the funding of emergency social programs.
After stagnating during 1985-87, imports are projected to increase at an
annual average of 3 percent in real terms during 1989-91, in line with the
investment and intermediate input requirements of the growth assumptions. In
spite of the expected improved performance of exports, the external sector
will be characterized by large deficits during the period, partially because
of the weight of debt service payments, which average about 40 percent of
exports of domestic goods and non-factor services. The current account
deficit/GDP ratio is projected at an average of 7.8 percent, leading to
overall payments deficits averaging 3.0 percent of GDP. Detailed national
accounts, public finance and balance of payments projections are set out in
Annex VI.
51.       The gross external capital requirements are expected to be US$ 916
million for the period 1989-91 of which disbursements from the existing
pipeline and new commitments should provide US$ 248 million (Table 4). An
additional US$ 306 million is projected to come from debt relief, assuming
that external debt arrears and new scheduled payments will be rescheduled in
line with the terms of the Toronto initiative. Taking into account IDA's SAL
of US$ 45 million and the 1MP's SAW  resources of U8$ 29.7 million, the
remaining gap (US$ 287 million) is assumed to be covered by exceptional
financing under the SPA auspices.
52.      The proposed credit of US$ 45 million equivalent could finance about
10 percent of Benin's merchandise imports during 1989 and meet about 9 percent
of the country's gross external capital requirements during the period. The
credit amount could cover 20 percent of the Government's gross external
financing requirements in the 1989 budget. The credit would be on Standard
IDA terms with 40 years maturity, including 10 years of grace. The proposed
credit will be disbursed in two tranches, the first of which is US$ 22.5
million which will be available upon credit effectiveness. The credit is
expected to be fully disbursed within 7 months of effectiveness.
53.      Benin's debt presents a major difficulty for the future viability of
its external sector. Even with the above generous rescheduling terms, the
savings from debt relief disappear in 1992 and become negative from 1993
onwards   (Annes VI, Table 3).  This is due to the weight of the commercial
debts of the sugar and cement companies of Savr and Onigbolo (80 percent of
arrears and 20 percent of future payments) on which the moratorium interest



- 20 -
rises rapidly. The Government has listed these companies among those to be
studied and possibly privatized in the years ahead (para. 34). and vill also
explore vith Nigeria (part-owner of the enterprises) the possibility of a
debt-to-debt conversion work-out for the two enterprises.
D. Banefits and Risks
54.      While the policy changes required under the adjustment program run
counter to the ideological stance that the Government has had over more than a
decade, they are necessary if the public sector is to become manageable again,
the banking system operational and growth prospects improved. Particular
benefits are expected to accrue from the restoration of a viable public
finance situation and a rationalized and more efficient civil service, the
elimination of loss-making enterprises from the State's portfolio and the
restoration of a sound banking system. In addition, as controls on economic
activity are lifted, local farmers, craftsmen, traders, small industrialists
should prosper. Also, as the business environment is made more conducive to
private initiative, the economy is likely to benefit from increased local and
foreign investment as confidence grows in the system.
55.      The Government faces three risks in the implementation of this
program. First, further terms of trade losses from declining cotton, palm oil
and crude oil prices could play havoc with the financial plans, making it
difficult to pay remunerative producer prices and also carry tbrough those
parts of the program dependent on growing financial strength. For Instance,
if export prices were to fall by an average of 10 percent over the adjustment
period, the external financial requirements would increase by about US$ 60
million. Second, domestic political opposition to reforms could re-emerge, as
a result of social strains arising from the changes being introduced
(described in Part E below), especially as some ambivalence towards free
market policies still remains within the radical wing of the Politbureau.
Since most of these public sector proponents associate income disparities with
inequalities fostered by the private enterprise system, their arguments will
acquire some force if widespread suffering appears among workers while new
private businesses seem to be doing well. Third, the complexity of the
process of privatizing the banking system poses additional risks, including
that of a long search for a partner.
56.      These risks are reduced by the structure of the program and
the political establishment's (both the President's and the Politbureau's)
firm and clear endorsement of the reforms. First, actions are being taken to
strengthen resource mobilization, on one hand, and eliminate waste and
inefficiency, on the other; this would among, other things, permit the
resumption of orderly payments of salaries and relieve some political
pressure. Second, the measures designed to alleviate the social impact of the
program (Part B) will minimize the extent of social dislocation likely to
arise while the poverty alleviation package Included in the program should
improve its sustainability. Third, the up-front declaration of non-
involvement in the management of the new bank, the new attitude towards
private business reflected in the strong parastatal privatization efforts and
the promising contacts made so far with private banks reduce the risk of a
drawn-out search for a partner.



- 21 -
E. Social Impact
57.      Although income per capita is low ia Benin, the economy's capacity to
foed itself ensures a reasonable nutritional standard for the population.
That standard is all but guaranteed in the case of rural households. In the
urban centers, however, the money income status of households determtne
nutritional well-being. It is therefore mainly in the urban areas that
reductions in real wage incomes (as a result of lay-offs andlor price
increases) could lead to hardships.
S8.      Of the adjustment measures implemented so far, increased cotton
producer prices and SONAPRA's reinforced capacity to import and distribute
modern inputs have raised incomes among the rural population. In the urban
areas, the significant measures are those related to the reduction of the
labor force of restructured public enterprises. Already about 3000 employees
from four fully liquidated public enterprises have been laid off. Of that
number, 293 covered by the Civil Service Code (Statut des Agents Permanents de
l'tat) have returned to the central Government. The others are to benefit
from self employment aid under the redeployment scheme of the parapublic
sector project. The Project Unit of the Public Enterprises Rehabilitation
Project (Cr. 1748-BEN) is working through a special commlttee to implement the
redeployment scheme.
59.      During the implementation of the SAL program the contrasting rural-
urban impact is likely to be accentuated. laitially, urban unemployment will
grow as people leave the civil service, further hiring is frozen and more
enterprises are liquidated. There are, however, countervailing measures which
are an integral part of the program aimed at agriculture, the private sector,
small farmers and artisans, and human resource development. In addition, the
program will attempt to limit the social impact of the shifts in the urban
areas in various ways. First, the civil service employment reduction program
will be supported by a well-funded compensation package. Each leaver will
receive as a minimum hislher accumulated pension rights. Second, for those
wishing to do so, there will be technical advice on relocation from the Centre
for Private Enterprise Promotion. Third, a labor-intensive urban works
program focused on maintaining the road network and upgrading the sanitation
system, Including the drainage system, will be used to upgrade living
conditions while employing about 1,500 workers during 1989-91. This program
would respond to a pressing need while helping mop up some unemployed labor
during the critical period when laid-off workers shift to new occupations
under the resettlement program.
60.      Beyond these, social services (education and health) will be
protected and their delivery improved, including increasing financing for non-
wage recurrent expenditure in these sectors (para. 28). Given the
exceptionally difficult financial situation, these vital expenditures will be
financed from a Social Fund being set up with foreign contributions to finance
social programs during 1989-91. Finally, a unit to monitor the evolution of
social conditions will be set up as part of the Africa-wide Social Dimension
of Adjustment (SDA) research effort to provide indicators for guiding policy
decisions on mitigating the social impact of adjustment. The Bank SDA mission
to start the creation of the unit is scheduled for May-June 1989.



- 22 -
Environment
61.      Owing to the importance of agriculture and fisheries to the Beninese
economy. as well as for health reasons, the Government pays particular
attention to the environmental problems of soil degradation and the evacuation
of effluence into the rivers that empty themselves In Cotonou and Porto-Novo.
These coancerns have become more preoccupying In the face of rapid expansion of
the use of chemical fertilizers in agriculture, the increased salination of
the Nokoue lagoon, and the rapid erosion of the coastal areas of the Mono
Province. In order to respond effectively to these environmental problems and
concerns, the Government inten-s, as part of the general review of the policy
orientation of the economy, to prepare and adopt a rational policy on the
environment by end 1989.  This work is being supported by the Bank In the
broader context of the dialogue on protection of the environment and natural
resource maagement.
F. Disbursement. Administration and Procurement
62. Prior action by Government has been taken recently In the following
areass
I. Public Sector Reform
(i) increase in the main import tariff, taxe fiscale d'entr6e; and
reversal from officially-fixed (mercurial) prices to c.i.f values for
taxing some imports; increase of the officially-fixed (mercurial)
bases for others;
(ii) census of civil service and use of data as new base
for budgeting personnel expendituress
(iii) end to automatic recruitment of all graduates into the
civil service;
(iv)   suspension of automatic wage increases following promotions
and/or reclassification;
(v)   reduction by 50 percent of basic salary of public service
officials on study leave;
(vi)   abolition of housing allowances to civil servants and military,
equivalent to 10 percent of basic salary;
(vii)   adoption of internal rate of return criteria from screening of
Industrial, agricultural and infrastructure projects and least cost
criteria of social sector projects;
(viii) promulgation of a new framework law defining government-public
enterprise relations;
(is) dissolutionlliquidation of 12 public enterprisess



- 23 -
(x) privatization of 6 public enterprises;
II. Bankina System Reform
(xi) dissolution of CACk;
(Xii)  overhaul of accounting system of the BCB;
(xiii) audit of the portfolios of the BBD and the BCBs
(xiv)  preparation of a sector restructuring program including a program to
recover private sector debts to the banks;
(xv)   placement of BCB and BBD under Interim adminLstration;
III. Trade Policy Reform and Deregulation
(xvi)  liberalization of the marketing of food crops internally as well as
for exports and the opening up of trade in secondary cash crops to
the private sector;
(xvii) removal of quantitive restrictions and prohibitions on all imports
and their replacement with tariffs;
(xviii) reduction of number of goods subject to price control from 22 to 7
and those subject to profit margin guidelines from 65 to 15;
63    The second tranche will be released following a review indicating
satisfactory progress has been made in implementing the program as a
whole, and the following measures in particulars
I.   Public Sector Reform
(i)  agreement on an action plan for the introduction of the general
expenditure tax, taxe sur le chiffre d'affaires;
/   (it)  satisfactory progress in implementation of the civil service
personnel reduction program (para. 9 (ii) of the Statement of
Development Policy);
(iii) satisfactory progress in Implementation of the parastatal sector
restructuring program adopted in December 1988 (Annex V)1
III.  Trade Policl Reform and Deregulation
(iv) removal of import licensing on goods from the Franc Zone, the
European Commnity and the ACP countries, and a8reement on an action
plan for application of the recommendations of the import taxation
and industrial protection studies;



- 24 -
(v)   adoption of new, simplified business registration and licensing
procedures and labor regulations;
(vi) agreement on an action plan for the adoption of a revised Investment
Code;
Program Management and Monitoring
64.      The National Adjustment Commission set up in May 1986 is the official
organ of the Government charged with the responsibility of preparing the
program of structural adjustment in collaboration with the World Bank and the
IMP. It is composed of senior civil servants at the level of section chief
and above, and is directed by a Praesidium made up of the Minister of Finance,
as Chairman, and the Ministers of Planning, Justice, Industry and Energy,
Rural Development and Labor and Social Affairs. At the technical level, the
Commission works in sub-commissions according to the key areas targeted for
reforms. The sub-commlttees are headed by Department Directors who together
constitute the technical secretariat of the Commission. The full Comdission
meets once a week to review various aspects of the work on the program. The
Commission is not a decision making body; it reports to the Central Committee
of the Party which makes decisions under the Chairmanship of the President.
So far, this arrangement has worked smoothly, including enabling the
Government to implement up-front a large number of measures discussed with the
SAL appraisal mission in July 1988.
65.      At the program preparation stage, each subcommission worked with the
Bank team on designing the reform measures, and saw to the implementation of
the up-front ones. The sub-commissions continue to work on the measures to be
taken during the period 1989-91 and will be involved in their implementation
at the technical level.  Each leader of a sub-commission, being himself a
member of the Commission's Technical Secretariat, will be responsible for
reporting progress on the measures of his concern to the Praesidium. The
Praesidium in turn will put before the Central Committee issues requesting a
political decision. After these decisions are made, the appropriate
instructions will be issued to the executing Ministries by the Central
Committee. The National Commission will monitor the implementation of the
measures through the various sub-commissions and its Praesidium will remain
the interlocutor of visiting Bank follow-up missions.
66.      Following the disbursement of the first tranche of the proposed
credit, the Commission will submit to IDA a report evaluating progress made in
implementation. This report will serve as a basis for the release of the
second tranche. The Commission will submit to IDA a final report on the
program's implementation upon full disbursement of the credit.
Disbursement and Auditing
67.      The credit will reimburse the foreign exchange cost of eligible
imports (excluding luxury goods and defense items). Disbursement would be
facilitated by the establishment of a USS 8 million equivalent Special Account
in the central bank (BCEAC). IDA flnanclng of Imports of foodstuffs will be



- 25 -
limited to an aggregate amount equivalent to no more than US$ 6 million. The
Ministry of Finance will be responsible for collecting the supporting
documentation (copies of the invoices and evidence of shipment and of payment)
and for preparing withdrawal applications. Disbursements would be against
Statements of Expenditures (SOEs) for eligible contracts valued at US$ 500,000
or less. The supporting documentation for these would be retained by the
Ministry of Finance and would be made available to Bank staff during
supervision and audited annually by independent auditors. The nature and
origin of the goods as well as the payment date would be indicated on the
SOBs. Expenditures for goods procured under invoices for USS 10,000
equivalent or less would not be eligible for financing out of the credit
proceeds. All other disbursements would be made against full documentation
submitted to IDA.  The minim withdrawal application size would be US$1
million equivalent. In order to enable the Government meet urgent foreign
exchange needs, IDA would disburse up to 20 percent of the credit for eligible
imports which were paid for and entered the country after November 1, 1988.
An audit report, conforming to internationally accepted standards and prepared
by auditors approved by IDA, will be submitted within six months after the
close of each fiscal year.
Procurement
68.      Both private and public sector imports would be eligible for
financing. Imports by private entities would be in accordance with normal
commercial practices, which are acceptable. For public sector imports,
procurement would be made through international competitive bidding in
accordance with Bank Guidelines for contracts of US$ 2 million equivalent or
more. Contracts for the procurement of goods estimated to cost less than US$
2 million equivalent each would be awarded on the basis of normal procurement
procedures of the purchaser which were evaluated by the appraisal mission and
found to be satisfactory to the Bank.
PART IV - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS AND STRATEGY
Past Assistance Strategy
69.      Since becoming a member of the Bank Group in 1963, Benin has
benefitted from 26 IDA credits amounting to USS 247 million of which about
$ 170 million is disbursed and outstanding. Initially, much of the assistance
was delivered in the context of traditional projects mainly in the
agriculture, transport, and energy sectors. When the economic dialogue was
broadened after 1982, the country assistance program was adjusted accordingly
to focus it on supporting macroeconomic management and the rehabilitation of
key sectors which had become weakened or overextended as a result of projects
and policies executed under the First State Plan (paras. 6-10). Accordingly,
the CESU emphasized public sector management issues (a CEM In FY84, a Public
Investment Review in FY85, Fiscal System and External Debt Studies in FY86,
and a Public Expenditure Review in FY87), and sector efficiency issues (Food
Crop Marketing, FY86 and Education Sector and Banking System Reviews, FY86-
87), while the lending program included credits to assist rehabilitation of
infrastructure (Transport infrastructure Rehabilitation Project in FY87), and



- 26 -
support adjustment in the public enterprises (Public Enterprise Sector Reform
Project, FY87) and the cotton sub-sector (Second Borgou Rural Development
Project, mF8).
70.      Further severe deterioration of the country's economic and financial
situation in 1987, including the virtual cessation of banking sector
operations in the last quarter of the year, convinced the Government that only
a broad reform program can deal effectively with the economy's problems. The
Government therefore used the opportunity of a meeting with donors (Bank, XW,
France and ICE*O) on the banking system in Paris in February 1988 to disclose
its decision to abandon piecemeal adjustment in favor of the comprehensive
reform program described in Part D above.
Proposed New Strategy
71.      The decision of the Government to embark on a comprehensive market-
oriented reform program represents a fundamental change in Benin's development
strategy and the Bank's assistance strategy has been adjusted to support its
implementation. At the macroeconomic level, the Bank strategy will support
the objectives of rationalizing the public and parapublic sectors promoting
private sector growth, and reforming the banking system. At the sectoral
level. the strategy is to assist Benin to re-establish the international
competitiveness of its cash crops and revitalize the transport and transit
sectors, to help the Government find a least-cost solution of the problem of
idle and/or seriously underutilized industrial plants and substitute a planned
and rational incentive system for the present one that is largely the
inadvertent result of other policies. The strategy also aims at assisting
lenin to improve the internal efficiency in the social sectors through
selective re-orientation of their programs and increasing their non-wage
recurrent budgets (para. 28).
72.      Lending Program.  The centerpiece of IDA assistance in Benin over the
next few years will be Structural Adjustment Lending in support of the
Government's policy reforms, providing fast-dlsbursing resources to meet the
economy's balance of payments financing needs (Annex VI, Table 3). The
adjustment being pursued by Benin will necessarily take a number of years to
accomplish. Accordingly, the first SAL, described in this report, is likely
to be followed by others that will assist the Government to consolidate and
build on the achievements of the first phase of the reform process.
73.      IDA is also assisting the Government in the preparation of operations
in agriculture to support the objectives of strengthening agricultural
research and extension services as well as build food crops into a structural
export earner while ensuring internal food security. A private sector
development project is under preparatlon to support follow-up actions to give
further content to the private sector objectives of the general reform
program. Projects in education and population and health are being examined
to help improve the quality of services in these critical areas and the cost
effectiveness of their delivery. In the case of the latter, a Health Services
Services Project has been prepared.



- 27 -
PART V - COLLABORATION WITH IM AND OTHER DONORS
Aid Coordination
74.      Benin enjoys a highly diversified flow of foreign aid.  From fairly
low levels In 1970-72, foreign aid has now risen to the point where it
finances about 90 percent of the annual investment program. Among the main
donors are OECD countries, especially France and Germany, the European
Community and the UN system, although regional aid institutions -- the African
Development Bank and Fund, the West African Development Bank and the Arab aid
agencies -- have a growing presence.
75.      The diversification of the country's aid sources provides IDA with
aid coordination opportunities as well as challenges. In all the sectors
where IDA has been active, IDA has coordinated its inputs with those of other
partners to ensure technical quality and coherence. In continuati.n of those
aid coordination efforts, IDA is in touch with bilateral and multilateral
donors desirous of cofinancing Benin's adjustment effort. In this vein IDA
will assist the UNDP in organizing a donors' conference in late 1989 to
mobilize financing for the tedium-term public Investment program that Benin
will adopt in the context of the adjustment program.
76.      Given its debt burden over the next few years (average debt service
ratio of 30 percent during 1989-91) and its determination to carry out a
program of structural adjustment, Benin qualifies for aid under the Special
Program of Assistance (SPA) for debt-distressed countries. Further resources
for SPA sources will be available to cofinance Benin's first structural
program.
Relations with the DIM
77.      Over the last few years, aside from the annual Article IV
Consultations, Benin requested and received several staff visits to pursue the
dialogue towards a stabilization program. The country also benefitted fram
three technical assistance missions that reviewed the fiscal system and
estimated public finance arrears. In the policy discussions, however,
although a close working relationship was forged during the period, concrete
progress was slow until this year, for the same reasons as in the Bank-Benin
dialogue (pars. 4). The preparation of a sound current budget for 1988 and
the macroeconomic policy declaration made in Paris (para. 3) marked a turning
point In the policy dialogue. On the basis of that, an IMP mission visited
Cotonou In July 1988 to begin preparatory work for a SAP program to be adopted
in parallel vith the Bank's SAL. The mission worked in close collaboration
with the Bank on the preparation of the adjustment programs including
assisting the Government on the preparation of a Policy Framework Paper (PFP).
A joint Bank-IMF mission vLsited Cotonou in February 1989 to negotiate and
agree on the PFP with the Government, following which the DNF finalized its
first year's SAF program in Paris in March. The presentation of the PFP to
the Committee of the Whole is scheduled for May 1989.



- 28 -
PART VI - RECOMMINDATION
78.   I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the Articles of
Agreement of the Association and I recommend that the Executive Directors
approve the proposed credit.
Barber B. Conable
President
April 26, 1989
Washington, D.C.



-29-                                            ANNEX I
1988 SOCIAL INDICATOR OATA SHEET
BENIN
Roeore4c Groups (661)
Most
ROcent                     Lower sid
19WI        197S    Estimste   Low- Income       inaeO
MARE
Totel land area (thou sq km)    112.6         112.6       112.6
Agricultural (Sot total)             6. 7      19.6        20. 
0W  PER CAPITA (current US$)           100         170        300         280         739
POPULATtO 4AM VITAL STATISTICS
Total population (thou)           2.332       3.029       4.315
Urban pop. (  of total)               13         22          37          29          38
Population growth rate(%):
total                                         2.7         3.0         1.0         2.5
Urban                                         8.2         0.0         5.7         4.2
Life  xp Ct  at birth (yrs)          42          41          S0          61          59
Population projections:
PoP. in 2000 (thou)                                     6.636
Stationary pop. (thou)                                 20.251
Population Fensity per sq km
of agricultural land                 124         137        173         349         404
Pop, age structure (X):
0-14 yes                           45          46          47          37          42
15-f4 yres                         S2          o           49          S9          S5
5 and above                         3           3           3           4           3
Crude birth rate (per thou)           49          49         49          30          ff
Crude dath rate (per tnou)            24          20         17          10          10
Total fertility rate               6.          6.6         6.5         3.9         4.7
Intant mort. rate (per thou)        le6         136         1O9          72          76
Child death rate (per thou)           52          39         19           9           tt
Family planring:
Accp tors, annuat (tnou)
Users (X of married women)                                  6
FOOD. HEALTH AND MTRIt ION
Index ot foodc production per
capita (1979-81 a 100)               9g          93          116        115         106
Par Capita supply of:
Calories (per day)              2,004       1.999       2.248       2.327       2.507
Proteins (grams per dasy)          45          45          49          55          56
Pop, per physician (thou)          32.4                    t7.0         5.          7.5
Pop. per nurse (thou)                2.5        2.6          1.7        4.0
Pop. per nospital bed (thou)                      .         0.9          1.1         1
Access to safe water
(% of population):  total                      20          14
Urban         .           42         45
Rural                     Is          9
Population Growth              Infant Mortality        PriTcory School Enrollment
53                         190  -_______    ______ 
2"~~~~~~~~~2
   f1001<
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5
O~~~~~~                                             S
'sos-s isis-sw          56 O     wi6o    t1O         t 1500    ilO    t15O
Cone fliP  stou aR P*D iIFJi308 ip



- 30                                             AEX I
1988 SOCIAL INDICATOR DATA SHEET
BENIN
Rtoerence Group* (MRE)
lot
Recent                   Lower mid
1965       i9li    Estimate   Low-incoe        income
Total Labor Force (thou)         1.337      1.592      2.010
Fem140(%)                        48          48         48         34          29
Agriculture (X)                  83          76         70         66          Se
Incustry (%)                      5           6          7         14          16
Port1eipatin rate  ):
Total                            so          82         49         47          37
Ral                              59         5s          5t         Ss          Si
Female                           51          s0         46         35          23
Age depernSency (%)              91.0        96.1      102.0       71.6        62.7
IWUSIII
Average size of household:
Total
Urban                             ..         ..
Rural
Percentage of dwellings with
electricity:
Total
Urban
Rural
EDUCATIW
Enrollment rates:
Primary: Total                   34          50         Ss         99         104
Male                    48         70          87        110         109
Female                  21         31          43         87         99
Secondary: Total                  3           9         20         34          42
Malo                   S          13         29         41         47
Female                 2          5          12         25         36
Pupil-Toacher ratio:
Primary                          41          53         33         39          31
Secondary                        28          41                                23
Pupils reching grade 6 (X)                     77         54                     72
tNCOME. CONUPTION, AM POVEtrTY
Energy consumption per cap.
(kg of oil equivalent)                         49         35        327         351
Percentage of private Income
rec Ived by:
Highest 10% of households
Higrhst 20%
Lowest 20%
Lowet 40%
Est. absolute poverty income
level (USS per capita):
Urban
Rural                                        84
Est. pop. below absolute
poverty Income levl (%)
Urban
Rural
Passenger care/thou pop.           2.0        4.7
Newspaper c1rculaxion
(per thousand population)         0.9         0.7        0.4       32.0        43.8
tECSE August 1988
__                                                                 as'__"._p w W oftw____.
own m sa   ap Ies Iems' l  La IotatiN bewneW es 17on ONgad SM ON adme  Iast eaimt -    ls. -' 15 ga IWS.
OuI_Mpsn                   "t             uedn"Zto  **hwU"*w 



31 -
11-Dr49
STAlUS OF BANK  MFP (WAIOS IN 4ENWIN
(AS of kg* 31, 1988)
Aoitt Less
LoeVcrsdit       Fiscal                                  Cancetlan          Lndisburud
1 r               Year             Pro                    (SS millons)      Balane
1 C09970            1980       OFC/                               10.00           4.37
2 C11270            1981       Rural Ovt./Cttan 1                 20.0)           2.00
3C11420             1981       HlOys IV                           11.30           0.00
4C12460             1982       EOoatlon 11                        14.00           2.16
5-C13140            1983       Rl Dsvt. III (Zou)                 20.00           8.65
eC0230              1984       FeederRoa*d II                     6.00           0.00
7CF0240             1984       Foresr                              2.80           0.78
8 C148S0            1984       Feeder loads I I I                  6.00           0.04
9 C15w0             1984       011 11 DOwt. Project               18.00          17.42
10 C150i- 1984                  Forestry                            2.60           1.32
11 C15O0l           1984       Nieto   yleictric                   15.00           7.42
12 C15300           1985        Tdical Asistance                    5.C0           5.03
13 C17210            1988       Wter gWly 11                       10.00          10.64
14 C17480           1987        PLbit  yterprIses                  15.0)          14.65
15 C18070           1987        Trarport Infrastrtur               19.50          18.68
1i C180  1/         1988        Rural DSvt.orwgu II               21.00          20.48
TOTAL MMER OF  EDIS      1B                                    196.20         111.60
TOTAL APPROV, NET                                              247.29
Of Vhidc repaild (MArt. & Interst)                            15.61
231.68
TAL LUOISID                                                                   111.60
V Not yet ecIve.



- 32 -
Annex I1I
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BE1IN
STRUCTURAL ADJUSIHENT CCDT?
Section I - Tim  Table of KZ Svents
(a) Tim taken to prepare the programs 8 omths
(b) Appraisal mission: June July 1988
(c) Completion of Negotiations: November 1988
(d) Planned date of effectiveness: May 1989
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Actions
Prior to October 1989 or other agreed date, the Bank will review the
Governmet's progress In implementing the structural adjustment program.
Sectio  III - Special Conditions
Effectiveness of the credit, which will pormlt use of the first tranch. of
US$22.5 aillion equivalent is subject to no special conditions. Release of
the second tranche of US$22.5 million equivalent will be contingent upon
satisfactory progress by the Government In carrying out the adjustment
programs In particular the following actions will have been takent
(a) agreemnnt on an action plan for the introduction of the goneral
expenditure tax, taxe sur le chiffre d'affaires;
(b) satisfactory progress in implementation of the civil service personnel
reduction program (para. 9 111) of the Statemnt of Development Policy);
(c) satisfactory progress ln implementation of the parastatal restrpcturing
program adopted in December 1988 (Annex V)1
(d) removal of import licensing on goods from the Franc Zone, the European
Community and the ACP countries, and agreement on an action plan for the
application of the recommendations of the  import taxation and Industrial
protection studies;
Ce) adoption of new, simplified business registration and licensing
procedures and labor regulations;
If) agreement on an action plan for the adoption of a revleed Investment
Code.



- 3S -                        Anne IV
PEOpLl*S REPUILIC OF pit
S2ENI? OF DEVLPN? STRATU
IN ToE COtITU OF A
STRUCTURAL AflJUMNT PROUMM
APRIL 1989
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



-34-                             Annex IV
PEOPI' &S REPUBLIC OF WENIN
STATE-Dft OF DIVRWPMENT STRATEGY
IN TIE CONTEXT OF A
ST--T-RSRWADJUSTMENT PROGR(
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
1.  INTRODUCTION ..........................                              35
II.  ON-GOING REFORM EFPORTS .......................                     35
III.  THE COMPRENSIYE REFORM PROGRAM ........ ..... .. .... ......   36
1.   Public Sector Reform.   .           ...... ... ... *.. .   37
1.1        Public Finance *......................              *    37
1.2        Public Investment Program . ....... ..  ........ . ...   39
1.3        Public Enterprises .................... *.0 ........   41
1.4        Civil Service Reform .........................*..... .  43
III. 2.   Banking System Reform .......... ... ...................   44
III. 3.   Trade Policy Reform and Deregulation ..................   46
III. 4.   Sector Policies ......*.......**...**...*.........   49
4.1       Agriculture   * ............... ...*..*        . - ** * -  49
4.2        Transport and Transit ...........................   51
4.3        Public Utilities ................. 52
4.4        Energy                                                   53 ....   53
4.5        Education .....................................    54
4.6        Health ............ ..............   55
IV.  7NAGDMNT OF TuE PROG....         .................................   56
Vs ALLEVUTING THE SOCIAL IMPACT ............... ...............   56



-35-                           Annex Iv
I.* INTRODUCTION~
1.        Since 1983, the economy of Benin has experienced low growth
(average 0.6 percent) with deteriorating finances. While the decline in
world market prices for the economy's main exports and the slump in
regional and re-export trade are partially responsible for these
developments, they are equally the result of inadequate macroeconomic
policies and the failure of several of the ventures that the Government
undertook in the 19709 in an effort to diversify the productive base of the
economy. The two influences have resulted in a situation of extensive
underutilization of productive capacity, weak public finances, an insolvent
banking system and an unmanageable external debt.
II.  ON-GOING REFORM EFFORTS
2.        The Government attaches the highest priority to arresting the
economic and financial decline and laying the foundation for sustainable
growth. Towards this end, different measures have been implemented since
1983 (elaborated upon further below) which have already yielded some
results, in particular in four key areass
i)   During the first half of this decade, the cotton sector was
revitalized through a combination of improved pricing policies,
timely and adequate supply of modern inputs, and the propagation
of better farming methods. These have resulted in a five-fold
increase in output over the period of 1982183 to 1986/87 and
have laid the foundation for a long-term stable development of
the sub-sector even though the last season, 1987/88, has seen a
temporary setback in production due primarily to adverse weather
conditions and financial constraints of the sector which
necessitated a small reduction in the producer price.
ii)   Starting in 1983, measures have been taken to restructure the
public enterprise sector, mainly by liquidating
non-viable enterprises; this has reduced losses in the sector
and helped limit the drain on banking system resources.
iii)   Beginning in 1984 with the revision of the Second Five Year Plan
(1983-87) to bring it in line with new macroeconomic realities,
the Government has progressively improved the approach
to programming its investment projects; this has
allowed for better concentration of public sector resources on a
selected number of priority projects and has helped to avoid a
further aggravation of the external debt situation.
iv)   A series of fiscal measures introduced recently has stabilized
the public finance deficit/GDP ratio (including grants) at about
7 percent over the period 1986 - 87; together with a 10 percent
reduction in personnel espenditures in 1988, by the supervision
of housing allowances, these constitute a foundation for actions
to progressively restore fiscal viability.



- 36 -                         Annex IV
3.        However, while these Improvements have been Invaluable, they
have not by themselves been sufficient to overcome the economic and
financial crisis whose causes are more deep-seated. In order to tackle the
problems more effectively, the Government has set out to broaden the scope
of the reforms and deepen them by adopting a comprehensive adjustment
program of fundamental reorientation of the economy by end-1988. This
program will cover an initial period of three years (1989-91) and aims at
the following goals t
i)    raise the real GDP growth rate to at least 3 percent per annum
(compared with 0.6 percent over 1983-87);
ii)    reduce progressively the personnel expenditureltotal receipts
retio from 71 percent in 1988 to 44 percent in 1991 (as against
75 percent during 1986-87);
iii)    reduce progressively the balance of payments current account
deficit/GDP ratio from 9.6 percent in 1988 to 7.6 percent in
1991;
iv)    reduce progressively the overall fiscal deficit/GDP ratio
(including grants) from 5.1 percent in 1988 to 3.0 percent in
1991.
4.        The Government is in the process of preparing a third Five Year
Plan, the outline of which centers around this economic reform program,
consistent with the goals to be pursued through the comprehensive action
plan which will cover both macroeconomic as well as sectoral management
issues. This first structural adjustment program has benefitted from the
ongoing dialogue between the Government and the World Bank and the IMP and
has permitted the preparation of a Policy Framework Paper covering the
period 1989190-91/92.
1II. THE COMPREHENSIVE REFORM PROGRAM
5.        The structural adjustment program will reduce the size of the
public sector and enable it to perform normal public service functions more
successfully than in the past. It will also strive to create an
environment which will enable the private sector to take on a more active
role and make a stronger contribution to Benin's economic growth and
development. These objectives call for policy reforms in the following
areas:
(i)  public sector reform - with emphasis on public finance and civil
service, the public investment program and public enterprises;
(ii) banking system restructuring;
(iii) trade policy reform and deregulation; and
(iv) incentive structure facing various sectors so as to ensure their
response to the new policy environment.



-37-                           Annex IV
III. 1. Public Sector Reform
III 1.l. Public Finance
6.        The Government's -policy seeks to redress the structural
Imbalances, in particular In the make-up of the current budget. In 1987, a
first series of measures was adopted to improve the revenue performances
-    increase in selected taxes such as the statistical tax (taxe
statitique) and the import tariff (taxe fiscale d'entr,ee)
-    reversal from mercurLal to c.i.f. base for taxation of some
imports (eg. rice, milk, frozen fish and meat) and increase of
mercurial bases for others (e.g. used clothes);
-    institution of the requirement that deposits be made on business
profit taxes (benefices industriels et comuercisux and benefices
non-commerciaux) in the year in which they are due.
7.        On the expenditure side the following actions were carried out
during 1986-87:
-    implementation of a civil service census  on the basis of which
payroll irregularities and inefficiencies are being eliminated;
-    suspension of automatic ir civil servant's salaries following
promotions or reclassification;
-    decrease In overseas travel expenditures for scholarship
students and 502 reduction in base salary entitlement for civil
servants on study leave at home or abroad.
8.        These measures resulted in a 5 percent decrease in persomnel-
related expenditures in 1987. The Government further reduced the overall
public finance deficit /GDP ratio (including grants) to 5 percent in 1988
in spite of a decline in receipts. By 1991, the Government will try to
attain a current surplus equivalent to 1 percent of GDP.
9.        However, aware of the need for further and more comprehensive
measures that would enable it to deal with the burden of an inefficient and
overstaffed public sector at a time when its resource position is extremely
weak, the Government now will take the following actions:
(i  In order to raise the revenue yield of the fiscal system,
structural changes consistent with efficiency considerations
will be introduced, and the administration of the system itself
overhauleds
- the turnover tax (impot sur chiffres d'affaires
intertiures) currently limited to domestic goods only
will be extended to imported goods and selected services as
a general expenditure tax (tax sur chiffre d'affaires)
starting January 1990; the rates applied will be chosen so



- 38-                           Annex IV
as to be compatible with the rates applied in the countries
in the sub-region5 this measure will remove an existing
source of distortion in the taxation of local as against
imported goods;
quantitative restrictions (QRs) that were imposed in 1986
on textiles, soaps, non-alcoholic drinks, vegetable oils,
and matches are being replaced as from June 1988 with
equivalent tariffs; in addition full reform of import
taxation and customs administration will be launched in
1990 on the basis of a study of the present system to be
conducted in 1989; this study will be conducted
concurrently with another on the system of tariff
protection so that the new system to be proposed takes into
account domestic industrial protection and competitivity
objectives as well as the revenue goals.
The various fiscal measures undertaken should permit an
increase in total tax receipts from the current 11 percent
of GDP to about 13 percent by 1991.
(ii) In order to ease the personnel expenditure burden, and permit
adequate funding of the recurrent cost needs of running an
efficient administration:
an up-to-date computerized list of all civil servants is
now in place as a result of the civil service census of
December 1986; this will be used to support the
Implementation of a program of voluntary separation from
the civil service which was introduced in April, 1989, and
used as the means to achieve a once-for-all reduction in
the number of civil servants and the cost in personnel
expenditures; this program will allow some of our more
enterprising citizens to leave the civil service and to
start their own businesses; this program is expected to,
together with normal retirements, lower the number of the
civil service from 47,000 at end 1988 to 45,550 at end
1989, to 43,000 at end 1990 and 41,000 in 1991, and lead to
lowering personnel expenditures from their level at end
1988 of CFAP 42 billion to ClAP 36.6 billion as from 1990
onwards (see further under para. 18 for additional
discussions); in order to facilitate the separation and
soften its social impact, leavers will be paid compensation
equal to at least their accumulated retirement rights
(exact estimates to be supplied later); in addition
technical aid will be available from the Beninese Private
Enterprise Promotion Center to those desirous of doing so
to set up their own businesses;
emphasis in budgetary funding will be shifted to redress
the current imbalance against non-wage recurrent cost
financing of vital services In agriculture, infrastructure
(including road maintenance) education and health; in this



- 39-                          Annex _V
context, the 1988 budget provided CPAP 78.521 millions for
non-wage recurrent cost funding of primary school educatlon
and CPA? 1,007.7 millions for primary health caret the
1989 budget will retain at least the 1988 budgeted levels
during the cuts that will be made in line with the
objective of progressively curbing the fiscal deficit;
subsequently, norms that will be worked out in the course
of 1989 in collaboration vith World Bank staff will be used
to guide budgetary allocations for non-wage recurrent cost
financing of these essential services.
10.       The 1989 budget agreed with the World Bank and the DMP aims at
the following fiscal targets t
8.5 percent, revenue/GDP;
77.3 percent, personnel expenditureltotal receipts;
5.8 percent, overall deficitlGDP (including grants);
11.       In order to deal with one key problem area in fiscal
management -- that of overlapping debts in the public and parapublic
sectors -- the cross-debt situation between Government and the public
enterprise sector was reviewed at fore end-1988, and the settling of the
resulting net positions progrAmmed in the 1989-91 budgets.
12.       In managing public sector resources during the next years of
severe financial constraints, the Government's main concerns are threefold.
-    First, there is a paramount need to improve the efficiency
with which the available investible resources are allocated
(public investment program). The focus will be on projects
that will alleviate specific bottlenecks hindering growth.
-    Second, the program initiated already since 1983 aiming at
loss reduction and divestiture in the parapublic sector
will continue and even enhanced to achieve the goal of a
sound residual portfolio (public enterprise restructuring).
-    Third, the management of the civil service is of increasing
concern not only for budgetary considerations, but also
because of the need to streamline and render more efficient
the public administration, and to assure the existence of a
highly qualified and motivated civil service which is vital
for the sound management of public sector resources (civil
service reform).
IIr. 1.2. Public Investment Program
13.       In consultation with the World Bank the investment programming
procedures were revised in 1986 and since have vastly improved the
allocation of available investible resources. Whereas before the
investment program was set at unrealistically high levels, at times up to
30S of GDP, the programs since have been tailored to the means and needs of
the country; at the same tine a screening process for the projects was put
Into place by the application of minima economic and financial rates of



- 40 -                         Annex IV
return to all investment proposals of industrial and commercial nature.
The improvement is evidenced by the increase in the rate of program
execution, which has gone up from 22-25 in 1983-84 to 802 in 1986-87.
Further improvements to be introduced starting 1989 cover four areass
(1)  Adaptability in a changing environment and coherence with macro-
economic obiectives. In order to meet this need within a medium
term framework, the system of three-year rolling investment
programs will be set up. The first program is extracted from
the general framework now prepared for the Third Five-Year Plan
and will cover the period of 1989-91. It calls for an average
investment ratio of 11 percent of GDP which is consistent with
Benin's resource possibilities, both domestic and external, and
its absorptive capacity. Under this program, priority will be
given to rehabilitation and restructuring of existing facilities
(such as the transport network, parastatal industrial equipment)
and selective investment in areas supportive of private sector
producers (such as agricultural extension and research). The
emphasis on activities falling by their nature under public
sector responsibility should facilitate the installation of
private sector activities, thus laying the foundations for
sustained economic growth increasingly led by the latter.
(ii) Discipline in project selection. The Government will not
undertake any project which has not been justified by a thorough
technical, economic and financial feasibility study. In
selecting projects, the criteria of internal economic and
financial rates of return will be applied to all projects which
lend themselves to such quantitative analysis. For social
sector projects tests of conformity with sound sectoral
strategies, consumer affordability, and the criteria of least
cost solution to delivering the services in question will be
applied.
(iii) Exhaustiveness in programmitng. In order to render the
investment program comprehensive and provide decision-makers
with complete information on the expenditure implications of the
programs, any planned capital transfer to, and portfolio
investments in, the parapublic sector will be explicitly
included in the annual program, whether they be financed from
internal or external sources.
(iv) Monitoring of proiect execution. The programming and monitoring
sheets fiches de programation et suivi which were developed in
1986 and refined in 1987 and have been put into use in order to
strengthen the capacity for monitoring project execution. The
cards will be filled in quarterly by the Direction des Etudes et
de la Planification of each ministry and forwarded to the
Direction du Plan d'Etat of the Planning Ministry to provide
timely information on progress in the physical execution of the
projects as well as on capital expenditures to facilitate the
assessment of public finance trends.



-41 -                           Annex IV
lII. 1.3. Public Enterprises
14.       The public enterprise rehabilitation efforts vere initiated by
the Government in April 1982 and led to a first reduction Ln the number of
national and provincial public enterprises. These initiatives were
subsequently developed into a broader program with the assistance of IDA.
In 1986, all remaining public enterprises were reclassified into three
groupss those to be kept within the public sector for strategic reasons,
those to be fully or partially privatized. and those to be liquidated. The
actions taken since have to this date resulted in the following picture:
(i)  Twelve (12) enterprises have been dissolved and are under
liquidations CIB (ceramics),TRANSIENIN (trucking), SONATRAC and
SOTRACOB (freight handling and forwarding), SOGECOB (household
appliances), SODIHAS (school books), TAB (domestic airline),
SOGEMAC (markets), IBETEX (textiles), SONAPEL (fruits and
legumes): and ONPB (pharmacy);
(Ui) Six (6) have been privatized or are in the process of being
privatized: SONAE (vehicles and equipment), AGB (supermarket),
OBECI (moviehouse), ONATHO (hotels), RAVINAR (ship outfitting),
and LA BENINOISE (beer and soft drinks);
(iii) Diagnostic studies are under preparation for seven (7)
enterprises which could be retained in the public sector or be
privatized fully or partially: (SONACI, SCB, SCO (cement), 8S8
(sugar), SONICOG (fats and oils), SONAR (insurance) and SEB
(fertilizer).
15.       In addition, rehabilitation and/or expansion programs have beeu
adopted and are under implementation in the utilities and transport
sectors, with external donor support. These programs concernt SBEE
(electricity and water supply), OPT (posts and telecommunications - under
preparation), PAC (port), OBEMAP (stevedoring), and OCBN (railway).
16.       At this point, the Government has undertaken a review of the
benefits and costs of the actions taken so far. The lessons learnt from
them will be incorporated in the design of the second phase of the public
enterprise sector restructuring exercise. This second phase will be put
into place as part of the structural adjustment program and will focus on
five main areass
Mi)  Continued divestiture efforts.  The situation of all remaining
enterprises was reviewed in June 1988 and a new list has been
drawn up classifying the enterprises into those to be liquidated
(2), to be privatized (partially, fully, or leased) (7), and
those to be studied further for possible restructuring (10).
The annezed action program was adopted in December 1988.
As to privatization, standard procedures to be observed in the
process are under preparation and will be adopted by December 1988. The
major elements include advertisement procedures, establishment of clear but
reasonable timetables and of a mechanism to evaluate the offers received;
this will enable the Government to avoid having to negotiate with potential



- 42 -                          Annex IV
buyers from a position of weakness due to undue time constraints and will
also introduce transparency into the complex process of privatization.
(ii) Creation of an environment permitting greater market
responsiveness. The Government recognizes that the procedures
for determiaing prices administratively are cumbersome owing to
the large number of products covered (66 as of end 1987). All
too often the public enterprises are guided by prices set by the
Authorities while the marketplace offers a different set of
signals. In order to increase the responsiveness of the
enterprises - in fact, both pubiic and private - the Government
has reduced the number of products subject to price control to
22 (7 whose prices will continue to be set officially and 15
which will be priced according to guidelines on sellers'
margins).
(iii)  Rationalization of the legal framework.  The law governing
public and semipublic enterprises was recently modified (April
1988). The new law aims at conferring more rights and
responsibilities on the Board of Directors and the management of
the public enterprises in order to provide for an institutional
framework conducive to a more dynamic role of the remaining
public enterprises in Benin's economic growth. Those entrusted
with the management of the enterprises will have less
interference in their management decisions; in view of this more
weight will be placed on professional competence in the
nomination of enterprise managers. The statutes of all public
enterprises iill be reviewed and modified in accordance with the
new law by une 1989.
(iv) Clarification of obiectives. In the course of revising the
individual enterprise statutes in conformity with the framework
law, the objectives will be clarified and restated. In
addition, those companies requiring Government support for their
rehabilitation/restructuring or expansion exercises will
negotiate a contrat d'entreprise with Government, which will
state clearly state the reciprocal rights and obligations for
both parties in view of the rehabilitation/restructuring or
expansion objectives. As a start, a contrat d'entreprise has
already been established for the SBEE (in 1987), and a 'second
one has been prepared for OPT (December 1988).
(v)  Criteria for the creation of new enterprises.  The Government
has decided that during the period of the first adjustment
program, it will not create any new State-owned enterprise.
That decision notwithstanding, situations may arise where the
Government will be obliged to accept a minority share in a new
enterprise in a strategic sector. To be prepared for this
eventuality, a stringent set of criteria on economic and
financial viability and management considerations has been drawn
up for the evaluation of such cases.   These criteria were
adopted in January 1989.



- 43 -Annex IV
17.       Finally, in order to bring essential information on the public
enterprise sector up-to-date, and in view of the linkage with the civil
service refonms envisaged (see below), a census of public enterprise sector
employees is currently under way.
III. 1.4 Civil Service Reform
18.       As indicated earlier (para. 7 b)), the size of the civil service
is a major concern of the Government, which now strives to manage its
resources within the existing constraints. The civil service census of
December 1986 has enabled the Government to establish for the first time a
clear picture of the civil service situation. This initial database is now
fully computerized and is regularly updated as was the case following a
follow-up survey carried out in the first quarter of 1988. The improved
data allow for improved planning and projections of the evolution of the
civil service and the administration of the retirement program. Thanks to
the use of the new data, the personnel expenditurelcurrent receipts ratio
which averaged 76 percent during 1986-87 fell to 71 percent in 1988 despite
a 5 percent revenue fall compared with 1986-87. It is envisaged to reduce
this ratio to 44 percent by 1991, in order to free up budgetary resources
for the funding of non-salary recurrent costs and maintenance of existing
assets as well as to progressively increase the domestic share of the
financinl, of the investment program. In order to achieve these objectives,
the measures concerning the civil service will encompass the following:
Mi) Strict observance of mandatory retirement provisions. Starting
1987, the provisions which prescribe retirement after 30 years
of service or upon attainment of the age of 55 have been applied
more rigorously than before. In 1987, 812 persons were retired,
in 1988, the number is projected at 811 persons; during 1989 to
1991, 2084 persons in all are projected to leave on retirement.
(ii) Introduction of a voluntary departure program. This program was
introduced on April 5, 1989. It was prepared on the basis of a
preliminary survey to assess potential demand and the
establishment of the separation package levels.
(iii) Reduction of the number of civil servants. During the period
1989-91, the general freeze on recruitment in the civil service
will stay in place. Notwithstanding this decision, some limited
recruitment may take place where specific skills are needed.
These special recruitments will still be within the ceilings
agreed for the civil service personnel reduction program over
the period.   During 1989-90, a series of diagnostic reviews of
the Administration will be carried out in order to arrive at a
staffing plan based on real needs.
(iv) Rationalization of the civil service system. As further steps,
upon completion of the staffing plans and in parallel with the
implementation of such redeployment as necessary, the following
will be revieweds



- 44 -                         Annex IV
-    the statutes of the specialized professional groupings,
corps in order to assure their conformity with the
streamlined civil service system;
-    the Civil Service Code in order to rationalize the
existence of the different corps to clarify the situation
of employees in the public enterprises, to simplify the
administration, and to harmonize the Code with the
prevailing Labor Code:
-    the linkage between the Ministry of Labor and Social
Affairs (ftAS) which is in charge of managing the civil
service, and all the various Government agencies in order
to assure tight budgetary controls;
-    the pension plan systems for the civil service (FNU)) and
the general public (OBSS, which includes public enterprise
employees. while those employed after 1981 are classified
as civil servants) in order to assure a sustainable
coherent framework;
-    training/retraining policies for the entire civil service.
19.       These activities will be planned and their implementation
initiated in the first adjustment program and continued into a second
program.
II. 2.   lankinx System Reform
20.       The current financial crisis is vividly demonstrated by the
banking sector situation. Two of the three banks, the Banque Bfninoise de
D6velovpement BBD and the Caisse Nationale de Credit Agricole, CNCA, have
built up large overdrafts vis-a-vis the Central Bank, BCEAO. The liquidity
shortage, arising from the deterioration of the bank's portfolio and the
excessive operating costs aggravated by the flight of deposits from the
system from the second half of 1987 on, has reached crisis proportions.
21.       The makings of a crisis were already recognized by 1985, and a
series of measures has since been introduced at the national as well as the
Union level:
ti)  reconstitution of Credit Committees with BCEAO representation
(May 1985);
(ii) declaration of a moratorium on financing public sector
investments with banking system loans (July 1986);
(iii) overhaul of the accounting system (June-December 1986);
(iv) agreement with the Central Bank on consolidation of the banks'
debt owed to the BCEAO in accordance with UMOA
regulations (November 1987);



45 -                         Annex IV
(v) tazation of the banks on the basis of their actual profits;
(vi) preparation of restructuring plans.
22.       Unfortunately the situation has not turned around, but rather
worseed. In February 1988, the Government organized a meeting, attended
by the World Bank, the IKV, France and BCEAO. at which it presented the
scheme to restructuring the banking system. This scheme has evolved over
the months which followed according to the outcomes of the Government'a
negotiations with its partners, leading to the following strategys
(1) the CNCA has been placed under liquidation. A study has been
conducted on the future of the CRCAM and CLCAM, and a meeting
held with the technical and financial partners endorsed the main
recommendations of the study. A joint mission of the principal
donors took place in early February 1989 to prepare the nezt
step of the restructuring of the rural credit network;
(ii) the Government will finalize its negotiations with private
partner(s) for the early establishment in Benin of a new bank
with majority private participation. The remainder of the
existing structures will be liquidated. The interests of small
depositors, projects, embassies, private enterprises respecting
thoir fiscal and banking system obligations, and public
enterprises undergoing restructuring will be privileged on thls
process;
(ii) the banks' debts towards BCEAO, and public and private
depositors as well as other obligations of the banks, will be
rescheduled on terms compatible with the Government's general
financial situation;
(iv) a rigorous program has been put in place to recover the private
sector's debts to banks; and
(v) the rules and procedures for monitoring banking activities will
be vigorously applied by the Ministry of France and the BCEAO to
reinforce the supervision of the banking system and the respect
of the banking regulations.
The following are further details of the Government's banking
system restructuring strategies:
(i) the Government will seek to reach an agreement by end-1989 with
an internationally-renowned private bank for the establisement
of a new counercial bank in Benin, either as a joint-venture or
under a management option. In its negotiations, the Government
will ensure that the new bank will furnish a minimum of services
(windows, threshold of deposits, crop credit) in return for
fiscal privileges. The Government will also take steps to
ensure that, to the extent possible, the new bank takes on some
of the sound assets of the old banks along with a similar uowut
of liabilities;



- 46 -                          Annex IV
(ii) in February 1989, the Government designated a team of interim
administration to ensure the carrying-out of a limited number of
operations during the period before the complete liquidation of
the two banks;
(ii) the outlines of the terms of reference of this team were agreed
with the World Bank during negotiations of the proposed IDA
structural adjustment credit. While the liquidation of the BBD
(which is smaller in size) should take place early, the BCB
would maintain some banking activities for a longer period to
bridge the transitional period to a new bank(s) with the
provision of key services: payment of civil servants salaries,
loan recovery, placing and withdrawal of new deposits. The
Government will begin early and vigorously reduce the surplus
personnel of the banks and also launch an audit of the banks
accounts, especially the deposits;
(iv) the scheme developed will imply the State assuming the internal
and external obligations of the existing banks. A
repaymentlrefinancing plan will be worked out with the parties
concerned without excessively burdening the finances of the
State. This will require consolidation (a) of the debts vis-a-
vis the Central Bank of an amount to be determined on terms as
favorable as possible (15 years, with 5 years of grace, at 4.5
percent interest), (b) of public and private deposits on
comparable conditions, while favoring small depositors, and (c)
of external liabilities;
(v)  the interim administration team will pursue the recovery of bad
debts with vigour.
ITI. 3.   Trade Policy Reform and Deregulation
23.       The Government recognizes the vital contribution that the
private sector, Beninese as well as foreign, can make towards the
development of the economy. Accordingly, as part of the development
strategy for the next few years, the Government intends to make a special
effort to promote the development of the private sector in order to redress
the current imbalance between the public and the private sectors as regards
modern sector activity and the employment of the growing labor force. In
order to achieve these objectives, we began in 1984 to open various areas
of domestic trade to private enterprises. Next, the first steps towards
improving the business environment were taken in 1986 by reducing the
number of goods subject to price control from 139 to 66.
24.       Going beyond these, the Government has conducted a number of
studies to help it design further actions of private sector promotion. On
the basis of these, the Government has decided to do the following: ti)
clarify its policy regarding the private sector in a declaration opening up
to the private sector industrial and commercial activities previously
reserved for the State (March 1989) and set up a Private Enterprise
Promotion Center that would be of service to SMEs in particular (December
1989); (ii) revise and adopt new and simplified procedures for business



- 47 -                          Annex IV
registration; (iii) revise the Labor Code to give employers greater
discretion an hiring and lay-off decisions; (iv) liberalize domestic trade
In agricultural cash crops (other than cotton where arrangements are
already satisfactory); (v) revise the Investment Code to remove its public
sector and size-of-enterprise biases (December 1989); and (vi) catch up
with the back-log on and ensure future publication of the Governtent
Gazette, with the technical and financial assistance of the World Bank and
other donors.
(i) Establishment of a private sector/SME promotion unit. This will
be done in collaboration with UNDP support. This unit, to be
set up by December 1989, will have as its responsibility to
assist private investors in the identification, preparation, and
launching of new business ventures. It will aid an important
target group (including young graduates) in the identification,
preparation and implementation of new projects as well as their
integration in the private sector. A study is also envisage to
examine the approaches to assure access to credit for the S$E
sector. This study expected to be concluded by December 1989
will be discussed with the World Bank and its agreed
recommendations used to support credit availability to SMEs in a
restructured banking system. In addition, a job placement
service will be opened in parallel to receive and orient job
seekers in the private sector. An action plan will also be
prepared in collaboration with the Chamber of Commerce and the
Employers Association to reinvigorate these two institutions
activities in their support for private investors.
(ii) Simplification of administrativelreaulatory procedures. These
will be reviewed in particular as to how they apply to business
establishment, licensing, and registration , and in particular
as to their impact on small businesses; the revised procedures
will become effective in September 1989;
(iii) Liberalization of the labor laws. The labor law (83-002) will
be reviewed with the aim of easing up restrictions on hiring and
firing procedures to provide incentives to employers to actively
go out and hire labor rather than shunning new recruitment
because of officially imposed labor market rigidities. The
labor exchange will be reformed for it to fulfill its initial
intention of providing prospective employers with information on
candidates, while protecting employment seekers (September
1989);
(iv) Liberalization of domestic trade. The Government is aware that
the restrictions that keep private sector businesses from
competing with public sector institutions in the purchasing,
processing, and selling of agricultural products (other than
cotton) have induced economic inefficiencies. In order to
liberalize these sub-sectors while still ensuring the quality
control needed to protect Benin's export market shares in these
products, the appropriate measures were taken in December 1988;
(v) Review of the Investment Code. The existing Investment Code,
adopted in 1982, favors public enterprises compared to private



- 48 -                          Annex IV
ones, and has also led to capital intensive investments to the
detriment of small scale business and the pursuit of appropriate
technologies in the setting up of businesses. The Code is now
under review with the aim of introducing by December 1989, a
revised version that is easier to administer (greater
automaticity and transparency of privileges), more neutral as to
size of enterprises and between factors, and whose privileges
decline over time to enable businesses to be weaned
progressively off the privileges.
25.       In a bid to diversify the economy's productive base, a number of
Industrial projects were launched under the First State Development Plan
(1977-80) and executed through the early years of the Second State
Development Plan (1983-87). Plants were constructed for the production of
sugar, cement, milled grain, fertilizer, vegetable oils, and others. For a
variety of reasons many of these plants are either idle or substantially
underutilized. Two types of problems plague the industrial plants. The
first and more obvious of the problems are the lack of raw materials,
insufficient working capital, and dearth of market outlets. The situation
of these projects needs to be reviewed to work out solutions to their
current Impasses they either have to run economically or the cost entailed
In their underutilization has to be minimized, (paras. 14-17). The second
range of problems concerns the incentive environment of the plants. The
fiscal and other regulations developed over the years to protect domestic
Industry have to be reexamined in order to ensure that they are rational
and effective.   Towards these objectives, the Government will act on three
fronts:
(i) First, the situation of the idle, andlor underutilized
industrial plants will be studied so as to determine the most
efficient way to increase their contribution to growth. The
first subsectors to be reviewed will be cement, sugar, and
fertilizer (September 1989) (para. 11). On the basis of the
conclusions an action plan will be prepared for each plant and
Implementation begun by early 1990.
(ii) Second, quantitative restrictions on imported goods competing
with domestic products (sugar, non-alcoholic drinks, textiles,
vegetable oils, pasta, milled flour) have been removed and
replaced with import surtaxes as a more efficient way to protect
domestic industries while raising revenues (June 1988). In
addition, the current system of import licensing is being
reviewed. It is envisaged to replace licenses with a system of
ex-post declarations that satisfies the need for statistics
without hampering the conduct of import trade. The changes will
first apply to imports from the Franc Zone, the European
Community and the ACP countries and will be introduced in
September 1989 when the other trade reform measures are
scheduled to go into place.
(iii) Third, the framework of industrial incentives and effective
protection will be reviewed in conjunction with the study 'f
import taxation and customs administration (para.8 a) ) in order
to provide the basis for rationalizing the system for protection



- 49 -                         Annex IV
of domestic industry. The study was launched in November 1988,
and an action plan for the application of its recommendations
will be adopted by September 1989 s0 that the iaforms can be
incorporated in the 1990 budget.
1II. 4. Sector Policies
III. 4. 1. Agriculture
26.       Agriculture remains the foundation of the Benin's survival to
the extent that it enables the nation to feed itself. It is also likely to
remain the mainspring of growth for quite some time into the future, as it
now provides income to nearly 70 percent of the households, contributes
around 52 percent of export earnings, and accounts for about 42 percent of
GDP. In order to fully develop the sector's potential, the Government will
within the framework of the structural adjustment program formulate and put
into place a coherent long-term sector development strategy, reinforce
sector institutions, and create a policy environment conducive to sustained
growth in the cotton, foodcrop,and livestock sub-sectors.
27.       Sector development strategy and institutional aspects.  Over the
recent years the Government has undertaken with external assistance a
series of policy oriented studies including a review of foodcrop marketing
(1986), and of food security issues (1987), and diagnoses of the livestock
sector (1986)and of seed farms (1988). It has commissioned a study on the
future orientation of the rural development agencies, the CARDERs. During
the first structural adjustment program, the following actions, which are
designed on the basis of the findings of these studies, will be undertaken:
Xi)  after having evaluated the development of the rural sector
over the last decade, and in order to consolidate the
various recent policy initiatives, a long-term development
strategy will be elaborated and a coherent action programm
formulated; this strategy will be discussed between Benin
and the donor community during 1989;
(ii) following a review conducted in 1987 of past practices in
1987, improved financial and accounting procedures will be
implemented in the CARDER Borgou; the same process of
review and implementation will be followed in the CARDER
Atacora, and CARDER Zou (during 1989);
(iii) in order to rationalize the seed production policy, the
recently concluded diagnosis of the seed farms and their
policy context will be examined; on this basis, the
Government will formulate a national seed policy which is
both effective and economically efficient (October 1989).
28.       Cotton subsector reform.   Since the fall of 1987 the Government
is in the process of implementing a basic reform of the management of the
sector, with external assistance financed under the Second Borgou project.
The goals of the sector program, which will be reinforced in the structural
adjustment program may be summarized as below:



- 50 -                          Annex IV
(i) Clear separation of field extension activities -- the
CARDERs real vocation - from the industrial and camoercial
activities. Starting with the 1987188 season the
management of the ginneries has been transferred to
SONAPRA, the cotton marketing agency; the full legal
transfer took place in February 1989. The CARDERs are now
subcontractors to SONAPRA in the execution of cotton
related service/support activities such as extension work,
distribution of inputs, and purchase of seed cotton.
(ii) the elimination of input subsidies to the producers. With
the 1987188 season fertilizer subsidies have been
eliminated, insecticide subsidies have been reduced to 15
percent and were eliminated altogether for the 1988189
season. This is intended to enhance the sector's
adaptability to changing market conditions as well as to
protect SONAPRA's financial capacity to enable it to
continue to procure and deliver the modern inputs required.
(iii) Establishment of a Pricing system linking producer prices
to long-term world market prices. The objective is to
reduce the uncertainty element in producer pricing, and
introduce a quasi-automatic system with a guaranteed floor
price and a formula for sharing surpluses between
producers, SONAPRA, and the national budget after having
accounted for all cost elements. Such a system is
currently being studied and will be adopted for the 1989190
crop seasc_ In parallel, the setting up of a market
information service is under discussion, to provide the
managers of thesubsector with more and better elements on
which to base their decisions, in particular as to the
export marketing of cotton; the service will also be
introduced before the 1989190 crop season.
(iv) Improvement of the sector's management and restoration of
its financial viability. In introducing the above reforms,
all of which are designed to result in more efficient
sector operations, the CARDERs as well as SONAPRA are being
reinforced through a technical assistance program.
Furthermore, for export marketing a new system of
commissioned sales agents has been introduced since the
1987/88 season in order to maximize cotton sector export
receipts.
29.       Food Crop Production and Food Security.  Food crop production
will continue to be emphasized both for food security reasons as well as
their substantial contribution to GDP growth. In this respect, and on the
basis of the conclusions of the earlier mentioned studies, the following
actions are being launcheds
Mi) Deregulation of food croP marketing. Food crop marketing
will be liberalized both for domestic and the export
markets in order to reduce the extent to which limited



- 51-                          Annex IV
market outlets restrict the development of foodcrop
production (December 1988).
(ii) Creation of an early warnina system to monitor supply
variations. The Office Nationale de Cereales (ONC) will
put into place such a monitoring system to permit prompt
actions to secure domestic supplies in poor harvest years
(November 1989).
(iii) Definition of a decentralized food storage policy. The
Government is currently re-examining its cereals storage
policy with the assistance of the UNDP and FAO. The
objective is to develop a policy emphasizing decentralized
storage at the village level to avoid wasteful/expensive
attempts at stock management in urban centers (November
1989).
30.       Livestock development.  The domestic livestock subsector has the
potential to substitute for the current high levels of imported meat, in
particular in urban areas. The sector is characterized by the prevalence
of traditional herders with few links to the modern sector represented
mainly by State farms. The Government will carry out a diagnostic study of
the state farms (December 1989), and on that basis formulate and adopt a
set of rational subsector policies including a redefinition of the State
farms' activities (July 1990).
11I. 4. 2. Transport and Transit
31.       Transport sector activities fell In volume after 1982 with the
downturn In regional trade. Although there has been some recovery since
1984. this has been extremely modest because the entire sub-region remains
weakened by unfavorable developments in the world markets for raw
materials. Under these circumstances, the Government has adopted a policy
of ensuring rehabilitation and adequate maintenance of the sector's
infrastructure, strengthening the sector institutions, and creating a
policy environment that enables the Beninese transport sector to raise its
international competitivity in the market for regional transit trade.
32.       Towards this end, the Government will reinforce the action plans
already developed with the support of the donor community in the context of
the Transport Infrastructure Rehabilitation Project by further taking
specific actions in three areass
(i)  First, in order to ensure adequate maintenance of the road
network starting with the 1988 fiscal year the budgetary
transfers to the Road Fund are temporarily replaced by an
increase in the portion of gasoline taxes earmarked to the Fund;
this is an extraordinary measure to protect road maintenance
funding during the period of extreme weakness of the public
finances which will be reversed when the budgetary situation
improves; the measure not only strengthens the Road Fund, it
reinforces the link between user charges and the cost of
maintaining the road network; from 1989 onwards the Road Fund



- 52 -                         Annex IV
will cover 100 percent of routine maintenance, 30 percent of
periodic maintenance of earth roads, and 10 percent of periodic
maintenance of paved roads;
(a) also, starting 1989, in order to conserve its resources for
road maintenance proper the Road Fund will pay salaries
only for temporary employees (mAintenance crew members)
and, in the case of permanent employees, only performance
incentives;
(iS) Second, in order to improve service at reasonable prices through
encouragement of free and open competitions
(a) the role and performance of the Centre National des Bureaux
de Frets will be reviewed, and if found necessary, its
functions will be redirected to minimize its intervention
in modal choice decisions and permit market forces to play
their role allocating the road/rail transport and transit
services (September 1989);
(b) the tariff structure of the Port Autonome de Cotonou (PAC)
will be revised on the basis of improved cost accounting
systems in order to strengthen the role of the price
mechaniam in regulating the production and sale of port
services (July 1989);
(iii) Third, in order to assure the viability of sector institutions
(a) the debt/equity ratio for PAC will be maintained at or
below 35/65 and the one for the Office Beninoise de
Manutention Portuaire (OBEMAP) at or below 60/40 throughout
the three-year period of 1989-91;
(b) the study of options in the area of maritime shipping
activity will be completed, including the fate of the
national shipping company COBENAM (September 1989), and its
conclusions applied beginning later in 1989;
(c) the deregulation of the transit and freight forwarding
sector started in 1986 will be vigorously pursued in order
to encourage continued private sector growth in this area;
the State will limit itself strictly to, in return, derive
an adequate income from the application of the tax
provisions in effect.
III. 4. 3. Public Utilities
33.       The Government of Benin counts on the utilities sector to
provide a reasonable level of social well-being (water and electricity) as
well as support the growth of industrial and commercial activity (water,
electricity, telephone and telex). The public sector companies which
provide these servicess the Societe Beninoise d'Electricite et d'Iau (SBEE)
and the Office des Postes et Telecommunications du Benin (OPTB) are among
the best managed of our parapublic sector institutions. Nevertheless, we



-53                            Annex IV
intend to take actions to strengthen them institutionally and Improve their
performance both materially and financially. In the case of the SBE,
these actions will consist mainly in reinforcing at the national level,
actions that have been proposed within the context of the Second Water
Project which is supported by the World Bank, Caisse Centrale and other
donors. Regarding the OPTS, these are actions planned under the First
Telecommunications Project supported, among others, by the World Bank and
the African Development Bank. The actions envisaged fall into 3
categories:
(i) First, concerning the institutional framework, the Government
will
-    implement the measures in the SBEE's Cashier des Charges on
improving its management;
-    adopt and implement a contrat d'entreprise with OPTB, in
line with the revised framework law (Loi 88-005);
(ii) Second, on pricing, having put in place SBEE's new tariff
schedule (third tranche effective March 1988) the Government now
intends to
-    revise water, electricity and telephone tariffs in the
future in line with the financial conventions included in
the SBEE and OPTB's contrats d'entreprise.
(iii) Third, with regard to sector management, subscriptions for
telephones and for water and electricity in homes of officials
have been transferred into the names of the beneficiaries (June
1988 and March 1989, respectively) who are henceforth
responsible for paying for their consumption of the services.
Steps will now be taken to:
-    reduce SBEE, OPT receivables below 4 months.
III. 4. 4. Energy
34.       The Government is aware that while energy supply is not likely
to constitute a constraint on growth in the short-to-medium ternm, it would
be appropriate to put in place measures to increase the efficiency of
energy use and to conserve supply sources. Regarding electrical energy,
having just brought the Nangbeto Hydroelectric facilities on-stream jointly
with Togo, our primary attention will now turn to loss reduction in
transmission and other energy saving efforts. In the area of fossil fuels,
we realize that we have the potential to develop a new growth source. To
this end, our existing plans of exploring extensions to the Seme oilfield
with private external partners will be revived and implemented in the
adjustment period. We intend to do this by:
(i) developing a new model petroleum exploration contract, taking
into account developments in the industry since 1985 (July
1989);



54 -                         Annex IV
(Ji) conduct promotions ix the major oil capitals to attract partners
(December 1989)
III. 4. S. Education
35.       The Government of Benin is fully aware that while the 1975 re-
orientation of the educational system brought many benefits, including
extending the privilege of education to all the masses, there are still
problems. These include the falling rates of primary school enrolment, the
high failure rates, the low level of preparation of most graduates for
productive employment outside the public sectort the excessive cost of
scholarships; and the heavy weight of salaries and administrative costs in
the education expenditures, thus starving pedagogic material and supplies
of funds. These are issues that must be dealt with in order to improve the
efficiency of educational financing and obtain better results than has been
the case up to now. Actions are therefore needed on the general
orientation of educational policy as well as on how that policy is
implemented. Our goal in this sector is to achieve structural changes in 3
areas through the following actions:
(i) First, on sector strategy
-    the Government established a human resources working group
in June 1988 by essentially reviving and strengthening the
old Human Resources Commission, and charged it with the
responsibility of re-examining   priorities in the area of
human resource development and formulate a strategy and an
action plan. This Commission is represented on the National
Adjustment Commission to deal with human resources issues
in the structural adjustment program.
(ii) Second, on the institutional level
-   in June 1988, the Government creted within the National
Commission in charge of Negotiations of the Adjustment
Program a human resources sub-comuittee in charge of
education, training and employment issues; this sub-committee
will participate in the formulation of policy decisions on
human resource development and will ensure that these
decisions are part and parcel of national programs of
economic management.
(iii) Third, regarding educational financing
-    in the 1989 budget, we fixed new levels of non-salary
recurrent expenditure, with a floor level for primary
education, on the basis of a detailed school program review
conducted in August 1988; these levels will be reviewed
annually on the basis of updated programs as the medium for
adjusting expenditure away from the current bias in favor
of salaries;
-    by July 1989, the Government will elaborate a plan for
transferring the responsibility for pre-primary education



-55 -                          Annex IV
to local communities; this will begin a gradual process of
bringing the private sector Into the provision of
educational services; and
by the same date, the Government will also formulate
proposals for sharing the costs of education with the
beneficiaries, with a special emphasis on higher education
where the private returns far exceed social returns;
-    furthemore and finally, In order to increase Internal
efficiency, the Government will also work out by July 1989
a plan for increasing average pupillteacher ratios in
primary education from the current 33.l to somewhat higher
levels where possible5 this measure will reduce the
pressure on our teacher training Institutions and,
ultimately, the resource needs on this area; and a program
for reducing the levels of scholarships and re-orient them
away from disciplines with low labor market relevance.
III. 4. 6. Health
36.       Benin's main health problems are those arising from parasitic
Infection, and are best addressed through primary and preventive health
care. In the light of this fact, the authorities have adopted the health
care pyramid (emphasis on the peripheral areas and primary health care) as
the conceptual framework for development health care services. 'hile the
consequent broad policy orientation has been mapped out, it remains to
develop the contents of such a strategy. In the context of the adjustment
program, a detailed sector policy will be worked out and adopted, covering,
among other thlags, the relative degrees of emphasis on primary, secondary
and tertiary health care, private-public participation in the provision of
health services, anA sub-sector policy on drugs.
III. 4. 7. Culture
37.       The Beninese authorities, aware that development does not
consist of only economic growth and that man is both the creator and
beneficiary of development, recognise that:
-    the kanwledge and the preservation of the cultural heritage
enriches the life of a people and assist them to better
manage contemporaneous problems;
-    the cultural Inheritance plays a first level role In the
touristic development of a country;
-    the study and promotion of this inheritance can help avoid
errors In the conception of present and future development
projects.
38.       Consequently, they are committed tot
-    take into consideration the cultural dimension In
development projects;



-56 -                          Annex IV
-    to undertake actions leading tot
-    the fulfillment of the youth through sports and healthy
recreation;
-    the pursuit and generalization of the policy of mass
literacy;
-    the affirmation of national cultural identity.
III. 4. 8. Environment
39.       Owing to the Importance of agriculture and fisheries to the
Beninese economy, as well as for health reasons, the Government pays
particular attention to the environmental problems of soil degradation and
the evacuation of effluence into the rivers that empty themselves in
Cotonou and Porto-Novo. These concerns have become more preoccupying in
the face of rapid expansion of the use of chemical fertilizers in
agriculture, the increased salination of the Nokoue lagoon, and the rapid
erosion of the coastal areas of the Mono Province. In order to respond
effectively to these environmental problem and concerns, the Government
Intends, as part of the general review of the policy orientation of the
economy, to prepare and adopt a rational policy on the environment by end
1989. This work is being supported by the Bank in the broader context of
the dialogue on protection of the environment and natural resource
management.
IV.       MANAGEMENT OF THE PROGRAM
40.       The National Adjustment Commission is the official organ of the
Government charged with the responsibility of preparing the program of
structural adjustment in collaboration with the World Bank and the IMP. It
is composed of senior civil servants at the level of section chief and
above and is directed by a Praesidium made up the Minister of Finance as
Chairman and the Ministers of Planning, Justice, Industry and Energy, Rural
Development, Labor and Social Affairs, and Commerce as Vice Chairmen
respectively. At the technical level, the Commission works in sub-
committees according to the key areas targeted for reforms. The sub-
committees are headed by Department Directors who together constitute the
Technical Secretariat of the Commission. The full Commission meets once a
week to review various aspects of the work on the program. The Commission
is not a decision making body; it reports to the Central Committee of the
Party which makes decisions under the Chairmanship of the President.
V.        ALLEVIATING THE SOCIAL IMPACT OF ADJUSTMENT
41.       The adjustment program envisaged will necessarily cause some
social stress among those who lose their jobs when inefficient public
sector entities are closed down, and among those whose money incomes do not
rise but who begin to pay market prices for the products of entities whose
prices were artificially held down in the past and made to subsidize
themselves with non-payable banking system loans. On the other hand,



-57 -                          Annex IV
famrers, small businessmen, artisans and many economic operators are likely
to earn higher incomes as the policy changes of adjustment and the material
support to be made available through the program favor their operations.
In order to minimize the social stress likely to accompany the adjustment
measures for some segments of the society, the National Czmuission will
also work with Benin's foreign partners on a number of actions to limit the
negative Impact of the measures to be taken on the vulnerable groups.
42.       First, the program of voluntary separation from the civil
service will be adequately funded to facilitate the payments of
compensation and/or aid for establishing private businesses. It will also
be supported by technical assistance for helping aspirants identify
business ventures and develop the ideas into reality. Second, through a
program of public works in an Urban Area Rehabilitation Project, a number
of short-term jobs will be created during the program period to absorb some
of the urban unemployed during the transitional period when laid-off
workers are in search of openings for redeployment. Third, through the
restructuring of expenditure programs, the basic social needs in health
and education, in particular, will be protected and improved. That is the
key objective of an IDA-assisted health sector operation under preparation.
Fourth, and finally, the Government will set up a unit with the aid of the
World Bank/UNDP Social Dimensions of Adjustment Project that will be
responsible for monitoring the social conditions of the vulnerable groups
of the population. The work of this research unit will enable us to
respond to the challenge of minimizing the negative impact of the
adjustment measures.
43.       The work program of this Unit will begin with an in-depth review
of the country's poverty profile. This work could benefit from the on-
going research in institutions such as the Directorate of Food and Applied
Nutrition, UNICEF, the University of Benin and the Ministry of Public
Health on the conditions of the vulnerable groups - mothers, children,
landless farmers and the urban unemployed. This approach should facilitate
the formulation of an action plan on the subject.



U l           1  t rltu=  l 4U*|-W PPe so    
Policy Am e        '  I.eeewJbJct m                 AIr Act..
muc~~l T- m                                                                  b*" 
A. FIC    CTRRFM
1. Public FPl
S. fteomauu         Imeeevinamt of Zatesel -lacrosse I to  e *twoi                      i Aonmma m'   ectie  plan
Debit tutlee    Piaemciet Rewmerco       fiecele doatree;               fr      sfmtcoft the
*'bliastis te Esre ;                                              cbitfri  d'toffeire
low_ Resrem             - 11ve a  tr. merctral          latriat l        atx  oar
br_ath                  to e.t.f  _me for toalt          itf d       air.a  cue
so topo tc_ I=%
_rmeiatl b_e ftr ether;
-Itttle Of r Il          nt   -Review and update of Custome
to py  d     e      1 lOt       NWd &dStlc  tox sad cut
cm demstic teamie  taesm to  saleable. asseemmat eNd
time   is  lb  tey are  werif _fstlee procedares;
Lmanbhiay.ebir   t l eth    - As r _t ono an actio pl
t x toa   x  loton   th   tor application ot r   _oio
Industrial protectto                     ___)*lcodX    prttxto
(October *9);   ea etudy)   atiem of *  th      o   tax* io
-Preparatlo ond ede.tloa of
R evnue of erv-eric
tr laa *orCuebmto    O    tle
b. Pubilc E ployment Civil  Sorve    Reffoe   - Conduct of _anne of civiI
a"d Pay                                    servic  (1") ; WAd ae  of
date as am b_e. *or buidsetla.
personnol expeaditurs (19116);
- Offieial *n  to automtic
r.cruitmeat of a*1  Graduates;
- 8uupealoa m f      Incree-
se telleng pr*%e4lon  sad
- Incre_  in lougth of time
bne"toe svielte foe atidet-
atro d freo 2 yeo las os
Ces; (1067);(Mrh10t
- Reductiof   ,t SOs of  e     -lc
ealcayeOt psabi c * ervic
Rem*ll  onrem stdy loe ;
-inalitio    n of _ uIag *llo_
as o   civilians and               p t         a    ra
ItFrt,  qtnlonto a0 di
tarv e mar telm       OfrcX 19
-R vi-  of prea ct pree -el   -Idolo oet tlonot efcvil
managm ont rou glotion; *icurAn-luat ry _oe retlen
(October 1666                  progr; ma.
- Finalization ef list ot APE - Rbdetisitios ePuotieac1na
*B  of 121o1/67 with tb lr std psiti on.a  end pr a r tion
distiVbutte. by *l lory *nd    of n   functoa-r letd or de 
x       ~~grade  ma bencimer for pore-  *od remmasutlon *eal. (1066-
esnel redectios program; and 00)
- t  troducilon  etolavii
=erce prontl rdo
pregame;
c.  Des-wagez       Funlag Deewag            -Adoption of ta rget  Ote all-
Recrront Expendit. Reurren  Cee              ocetlene ot se-g  recrren
cost In *ed     o  a   hth
for 10 (Octobr 106)
d. hadge Eecution Ddmey Exediture   - PrepertiAos mad adpton of
Denltioring ea   CotolJ 11I                syte  fe* tr eiterin  bud-
Ceatrol         duciagAe-prIL4           oo4 excution witb elelmets
Eupndtuzree              or on    itorwtcon4mrel
of the reeimnton  of
_ _ _ _ _ __                                  1     " det              _        _ _          _
em   @eond Treah.



- a -                                       Amn  IV
P|I Slep Are__j_Ieeuee/Sbjsotivse_I                                   I       TO B Taken
It. Inv_etmt
PlaugI
*. Edhustl ve       RpleStly Proe          *      ti   d    el       e
Prorinimg       TramStref t. Parapbl lt.tio. with DIoo  -by      ber
8ster                    St me. Ter on t fel
so yew p s lavesteest p,rm
-Adoption St s     Oetm of praram
asg partfle  nveetmats Is
parapublie eeser(Oclaberl0k).
b. Mutl-per           edium-tr Program      - Adopton So 8-Per rolling
Program                                 aveatmea pr_gm tor Use-
c. Rproved          Pt Flol-p of project   -  I ormet of t         oj
manlit.rimg     executisa              ssuismat~
of Maby 14 iNSI
4. Project          project quality        -Adeptio of quantitative
Selection                              car    an sroT Ial,
agre arIl and   ltru
toal projoots an l east et
celXro se elolt dem
prejote
R~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a foro
KU1. Public EOAtrPrisee
a. Enterprise                        Iss  -Promlmgation of a  eW frame-
Autonprot                              work law defis  government-
eatorprlia rolat on;
b. Divestituro and   atninghsz 12 ts      osgo)
Roabititation   of the secrl                              e )
flwIO&?*(feils
hamdtir and forwardlm
hOEOuae_hoId1gli-
~: ~'~?rhne, Ste;
Pri tuono ate s
SINAECveb lee/euipen),
0 (imported Consme
(ehip su1ti$;
-gtablisimest of a 'tablosd
do bord with oey indlcators
to manitor public ostrprI
activtit
- Preparaton sad  -tion at
proeds to be fol lowe  for
enupto, serivatization
jiZle iZ9110)o
- Ittuton St a Ssatem for
r    in alt *11   sls for
th, creaion do nw publi
eatorpries;
c. EeR nvigoration   Reinforoomeat of      - Review of the sector N     - L dato  and closuro of
of Residuel     objootiveela-rifi cat- and pre2ratlo  of sw leliton 
Portfolio       lon of goole           of eaurpriln      to be rivet-  bid for p ivatlis ug    and
led Wholly or partial Y to  comleton  dianotic
he tee  out ortoe  iquid- r             10
ated an anoherlist of
eerprses to he reablilt-
seSecn  Troabe



_ y -                                         MAnsns TV
Pollcy Are            is_""/Objectives_             "tofu"to"                      =r  cttono
1. uigla   SYSM
I. Sector            Rform of Specalty       - iseolution of CGm
.rgaaiztlon   Bklag                      (My 19U)
eraltel td*919")ltr
ne * ron ba iltat-
tomroram  for the CR S,
o en ti hs ofag Wri-
cultuals eredit studyi, In
aeuci.tion withb  restruct-
ured beak;
U. Portfolio         Resttortion ot Sector  - R.contitutioa of Credit       - Implementation of
RestrucUrin    ViabilityCommittees Oith reresent-            RestruotWrIftg Plan (19105-01)
Restructuring   Viability            fro  th gEAg (ISP0);
- Coepletlon of BC8'o Port-
folio audit, ad appraesal of
Its fiood a*ste (July 196)
- Conclusion et m'so Port-
folio audt (October 1555)
- Agrement wIth KEAC on
rescheduling of CICA'o and
BBD's debt on cones.tonal
tom;
TU. Privatizatlon introduction ot Private - Preliminary contact with
.Capital *nd  ons  _  t  prospectivo prtOnrs
CaptolandMangemnt(July 106)
- Proparotlon and adoption of
* Drograto collect r ecrr-
sectr * eoverdue
dbb4     0o CN Cl, and 8DU
(October I i);
IV. Regulatory       Dank Inspection and     - Enlargement of the
Fr  meork       Control                 Nationa  Credit Committee
with the Inclusion ot a
French representati,v
o- Second Tranche.



-S *1                                         Annex IV
Polley Ar"  lmmmObjoctlvos            Petrs Actions                  Roform Actions
I  Poltcy Area    *  I      /u ObJ   oAlreay                              I tlo    To Be Taken
C. TR^E P9LIEY REFORM 
AND DEREGULATION
. Export Trade        Promoton                - Lib.ralil2tion of trading of
Liberalization     of Exports              food crops toludiag for
export
IT. Import
Protectton
o. Quantitativ      QRs on Goods Producod   - ElIinatlon of  OR  and
restrictions.  by Msm State Enter-    their replacement by import
monopoliet      pries                   toxo (July 1966)
Import Licesing         -Formulation of prepoelo for  - Adoption of the proCoeis
rpdinea Itconaf with Ox-         on r ovel of Iport
pok declarations for Franc      ItIcens**
Zon; EC and ACP Iec stele ;
b. Tariffs          High Dtspersion of      -Launching of study of  ndus- - 4areo    t  on an ction plan
Tariffn  Complex        trial proection (in rotation for ppication of recommend-
Protction Schem         with import taxation study)   Ptinc of industrial protect-
ion study  e
c. Investment       Eliminoting Public                                     - Agreinmt on an ction plan
Incentives       Sector Sias  making                                    for revision of  tnveatant
Regiens Fader and                                      Code eliI-nating the current
Size Neutral                                           public sector bias and making
regii   seutral wilth respect
to factors, nd sz1e of enter-
prises; see
II.Legal and                                                                - Declaration on openin  up of
Regulatory                                                               sectors In which G rnmouet
Framework                                                                had absolue mnopoly (June
a. Registration/    Reduction of Rod Tape                                  -R7vs*lon & adoption of sipl-
Licensing                                                              If id busine  regitrationj
liconing procedures s
b. Labor Practices  Liberollaatbon of                                      - Revisien of the *Lol 8-002
Decision-Making                                        concerning the hiring and
laying-off of labor; se
-Rsular publication of the
IY. Pricing Policy    Deregulation of          - Liberalization of pricing    Gaztte;
Marketo                 for all goods except those on
the lit, of essential cemedl-
ties (Deeme r 18)
V. Doestic            Liberalization of
Trade             Marketing               - Liberalization of the
trading of *al export crog
except cotton (December 1 8)
** Second Trenche.



- U2 -                                      Annex IV
j  P@loy Ares        lo sau/Objectivs    I       Refoes ActlonI                RWfore AtI
I                      I       Already Taken                ATo ib T ion
0. klRCULTURE
1. Setor Strategy  Ovw opnont of Jong-   - Launching of study on ln-
tOe poale anad approach term developmmnt ef the sctor
It. Support Servces
S. Institutional    Stren  Intg reserch  -.Adetion of _  accounting
A*=Te ob oservie    and s  iancial procedres in
CARDERe Sorgeuto bI fotles-
d by CARDERS Zou and
b. Seed Fares       Ratlonliing S8ed      Ataora)                       - Agreement on *ain actions
Fare policy                                          and a calendar of execution
for a global seed fares
IIt. Cotton Sector
a. Ginning         Separotlon of extension - Administrative trandfr of
servies from co re- ownership of ginnerles to
let activity           SPIAP
- Legl transfer of oemhtp
oftGannerles to SONAPR
b. *nput Subsidies Efficiency pricing of  - Elimination of fertilizer
inputs                subsidies tn 197/8; and
of Insecticide in 1988/8
C. Producr         Maintenance of producer -Increase of producer prlces
Prlces         I nentives/income     progresively from CFAF so
r   in 1980/81 to CFAF
1  per he la I98/8
- Adoption of a producer
pricing syetem lInked to
world mrket trenda;
d. marketiug       Optielzing export                                    - Establishment of mrket
recsipto                                             Information service to
wipport contr cting with
sale _mO    S
IV. Food Crops
Food Secrity  Creation of informtlon                                - Creation of a rapid talrt
system to del with                                   systm for monitoring Iupply
transitory food                                      variattons as ONC' fucti;on
security problem                                     and rodefinttion of decentral-
lzed  tora  (village level)
V. Livestock
a. Subsectoral      Improvement of                                       - Exainaton of the current
Strategy         re"urce *llocation                                    situation of State Pares aN
the formulation and adoption
of a ne policy on *ubsector
S condi Ts nae
S tenditlono In a seetr prtoJct.



-6U3-                                        Annex IV
Pollcy Ares           Ioes/Objectl w              Reform Actions                 Reform Actions
II  I   Already Taken          I       To Be Taken
E.TRASORT
I. Reo  aIbntence  Improved road             -Replacement of Ibdt trn-  - sitiation of covergsw fue
maintenance             for to Road Fund *th higher  Rood Fun  100  routine
fuel tax transfer              aintennce, and sOX and 105
of rtodIc mintenance of
::Madpved reads
...*cl.rly; s
Limitation of use of Road
Fund for was" to rod esinten
Once teporary labor and to
Icnte  for rglor road
int nanc  staff (from
January 1918) S
II. Pricing          Liberaliation of                                       -Review of role and perfomsn-
Trucking                                             ea of the National Centre of
Freight Bureaux, and redirect-
ton of its coordination fuuit-
ties S
Effleieney Pricing                                    - Reinforcement of cost
of Port Servies                                      accounting In PAC; S
III. Sector            Improved Financial                                    - Adoption of PAC'. revised
Uanagu.ant/    bMna9emnnt/Expenditure                                  tariff strucure  S
- maintnnce of dbt  iquty
ratios at or below 55/8 for
PAC and 60140 for UBEMAP
(198691); S
- Reduction of PAC & OBEMAP    - Reduction of PAC staff by 51
staff by SS per year stIne    per year (1989-91); S
1996
- Reduction of OSEMAP staff
by OX per yor (1989-91); S
Rationalizing Public    - Conduct of study of options
Sector Rol-/Xncre ing  In maritim sub-sector
Private Sector Role    (COBEAM;
- Implementation of mritise
lnectr study recom_ndat-
- Full libertlization of
ffreight forwarding and tran-
sit
se Second Tranche.
S Conditions In a sector projeet.



-64-                                           Annex IV
Polley Ar              le sues/Obj ctve.             Reform Actions                  Reform Actions
AIr**dy Taken                      To Be Taken
1.  Instltutional      Ilproeed Managerils     -lImLontat  et provleien         - Adoption of the contrat
Aecourtability          of tbe Cbt-r do Chergs of    dentr Ipi  and the OPTo
SBEE (March 1911);              Sttu4e
- Adoption of th contrat
d.ntreprieo SBEE In 1987
1I.  Pricing          Efficiency Priclng of   - Introduction of th  third    -Revision of water electril-
Water, Electricity and  trench. of SEEEe now tariff   t              n t el por" tariffe In Ine
Telecommunicatlon       structure (March 19t8 ;          o tb ftonctel covnona ntIn
Sorvices                                                 contrete d'entrepriee (1199-
195) s
111.  Sector           Improved Financial      - Definition of procedure.
anagment/       Management/Expenditure  for transforing olectricity,
Pollcy          Control                  water and telo hone
*ubecriptions In hoReN into
name of benefclairIes;
-Transfer of utility connect- - Maintenane of SSEE and OPT
Ions (electricity and water),  rec  vable below 4 months
and telephone subscriptions    (1989-91) S
in hos of official. Into
names of beneficlairleo
o . awaRY
1. Institutional        Attraction of ForeIgn   - Model exploration               - Update of the model explo-
Capital For Oil FloId   contract developed in 19S6       ration contract to take
Exploration             and promotiono held In           aceount of recent induatry
London, Houston                 de.l*pment;
- Undertaking of promotion
campaigns
eon Second Tranche.
S Conditions in a sector projoet.



- 55-                                          Annx  IV
Policy Aren           tesue/Objective.              Reform Actions                  Rform Actions
IAI  I   ires*i Taken             BeTo 8  Taken
- Establisbment of human         Perstt of rw - of prlorl-
1. swtor trat"W   Eespouse Rreouwrces working group;                  ties end formulation of sector
to Dvelopesnt               gy     Esw      r _roritoo  and   trategy and policy actlon
- Revie_ of priorities and     plan for Education A Culture
formulation of sector strat-
y & policy action plan for
Health ssetor
II.  Inatitutlonal    Coordination and         -Inclusion of Human Reswrce
Ipltementatlon of       Sub-comittes In Adjustment
Po I Cy                 Comuission
II. Financing         Protect Priority                                        -Determination of ters.ot for
Sectors                                                 mon-s Iary current expenditur
ind tlim  share of primary
education and primory ha 1t
care
IV.  Efficiency       Internal Savings                                        - Foerulatlon and adoption of
a plan for tncressno average
pupteacler ratios tn els-
=nt ryeducation
- Developmet and adoption of
a plan for redistributing
personel between centre and
perphery, and betweer
al5nistratlon an  health
service deli vry
- DOevlopment and adoptlon of
a program to lmprove hospital
administration and drug
distribution system
Cowts of higher educat-                                 - Developmnt and adoption of
and Improved link with                                  a poram to restrucuture
Labor market/Economy's                                  echolpe downtrde and sway
needs                                                   fre low relvane  dilcipil-
I. EWIVRONUNTf
I. Sector Strategy      Development of                                             " RVI" of the current stra-
sectoral policy                                         tgy  nd preparation of poli-
cies on environment protect-
Ion
- Adoptlon of the policies
se Second Trenche.
S Conditions in a sector project.



- 66 -
ANNEX V
Benint Public Enterprise Reform Action Plan 1988 - 89
To be privatised 11      s To be liquidated 21       :For Diagnostic Study 31
1. SOBENAC               t 1. OBEPEP                 s1. SOA CI
2. S.T.P.A.              s 2. OtI                    :2. S.C.8.
3. Trans-Oueme           s                           s3. S.C.O.
4. SOTRAMO               s                           s4. S.S.S.  4/
5. SOTRAZ                s                           s5. S.E.B.
6. S.T.B.                s                           :6. SITEX
7. S.T.A.                s                           :7. SONICOG
s                          t8. MANUCIA
s                          s
O9. COBENAM
t                          s
0slO. CNBF
11 Bids to be solicited and received before September 1989.
2/ To be closed and placed under liquidation before September 1989.
3/ Studies to be completed by September 1989
41 Government plans to operate the Company under a management contract.
This is subject to Bank review prior to contract signature.



- 67 -
07-W49                                 Table 1. Benin: Utremulc Prospwcts                  iUX VI
Growt, Savlrqp, Inwt t, 19 58-U
(Serlo with Adjutm t)
(ml I km ai stt 1998 CFAF)
1998            199I   1990   1990       1992       19L    1994   1995
-Est. -                         Projwct io
M0P (M)                                   548   542 5819            68W    6235 847404   0
Prlmary                  232300         289269 248447 253840    23994    27714 291053 30908
Seday                     72             O4  8280  84995           87545     90171  9M77   9563
TertIary                 182878          186536 190268 195993    199999   204898 210018 21529
Term  of Trads Adjust.         -0            324   2413   2776        3174      35      4048   4531
Gayf                       533800         547310    5   584882    604242    W275  651450 678
6apo                        65800          8203a   6358O M   0       65650     67134  84   6851
lsorts of Goods & fS       16260          1849) 173210 1787    138            18991  194273 199
Bort AdJ. for lTradM       -9600         -102998 -109823 -113928   -117437   -1218W7-127225 -132837
Eporbs of Goods & WIS      -98800        -1Q2604 -107210 -111152   -114262   -118300 -123178 -12830
Resources Aal lable        5960m          609343 629541 649642   669 89           M448  718498 7409
Total Consutlon            53t800         540568 556832 S73175    590491    807078 827175 847068
Gowrnet Ccmsupt Ion         636a0          51058  50548  50978       49988     49560   48081  45668
Private Cwmptlon           474700         489509 506283 522198    540504    558473 579114 800407
Total Investinnt            61300          88778  72710  76466       704Q0     86510  91324  96341
Groass   estic Saving       -4500           6744   9123  11507       13750     19376  24278  29490
Factor Service Inoms        14432          14360  17380  20122       19899     187I1   17457  157
Nbt OCrrent Transfers        4560              0       0      0         0          0      0       0
Gross Natkmal SavinG        14492          21104  2504  31628        33650     38097  41732  45287
Gross Natlonal Product     548232         581346 580    608         82D998    842488 684860 6B7824
Gross Natlonal n     inn;  548232         5B1870 583335 604804    824141    646073 668907    355
Growth rates, perocnt per annu
MP (MP)                       1.8            2.5    3.0    3.3        3.3        3.8    3.8    3.8
Primary                     2.3            3.0    3.0    3.0         4.0       5.0    5.0    5.0
Sbwmdwlay                   2.0            2.0    2.5    2.8         3.0       3.0    3.0    3.0
Tertiary                    1.0            2.0    2.0    2.5         2.5       2.5    2.5    2.5
Total OwtAtlo n               2.2            0.4    3.0    2.9         3.0       3.0    3.2    3.2
NoverNinnt Conswt Ion       -14.8          -19.7   -1.0    0.8       -1.9       -1.0   -2.9   -2.9
Private C     tuW Ion         5.1            3.1    3.4    3.1         3.5       3.3    3.7    3.7
SOr of G0P (1)
Total investment             11.5           12.6   12.9   13.1        13.2      13.9   14.1   14.3
Gross National Savings        2.7            3.9    4.7    5.4         5.8       6.1    6.4    8.7
ixwots of Goods & NFS        30.5           30.2   30.7   3D.7       30.5       30.3   30.0   29.7
E2o0rts of Goods & NFS       18.1           18.8   19.0   19.1        19.0      19.0   19.0   19.1
Rer  Rep                     12.3           11.3   11.3   11.2        10.9      10.8   10.4    9.9
SourcN: Official data; Bank and Fund Staff estinates nd projections.



- 68 -
24ar-9                                                   .               mt  Vl
Table 2. lenin:  r ,c       cts
Central I_rrmt F1.w 1968l91
(Ssrlo w1th Mjupmt)
(In billl    of A frun)
191     w      1188  1un    t          1601
- 1t - Eat.- -    Projtlom -
RbW      nd Grant         73.30   78.0   60.6D   63.2)  U4.90   03.20
ReMM                    6D.80   59.40   59.20   48.50   69.40   8D.00
Grats                   12.70   17.20   21.80   14.70   15.50   13.20
Ewdltwre                 110.00  112.40  107.50   9.31  100.88  109.00
Olrrt ExPeldlbure       77.0   80.10   72.2D    0.81  S6.    63.6
PermI                  48.0   45.40   42.00   3.50   18.50    8.50
Maxrlals & $=iles      24.60   2.60   21.60   15.60   17.70   19.60
Interest DA            7.30    7.70    8.60    7.51    7.67    7.56
0/h Exterbl           (6.70)  (7.18)  (6.00)  (8.55)  (8.71)  (6.80)
Otler                 (0.60)  (0.54)  (0.60)  (0.96)  (0.58)  (0.98)
Capital E2wewiitue      32.10   31.70   33.50   30.30   34.90   33.50
EEuptloanal bw bit       -       -       1.80    6.40   10.09    8.64
Clvil Service Reform   -       -       -       2.00    3.50    2.50
Ot*ing Refom           -       -       1.60    3.41    5.5D    5.20
Social Prr             -       -       -       1.00    1.09    0.94
Osflct (lmitmnt sis)  -38.70  -15.80  -23.70  -4.11  -21.58  -15.80
Ediwlbtue Arrws           23.70   21.60   14.40  -22.10   -6.20   4.70
internl                 22.20   1.230    7.60   -6.10   -5.60   -7.4D
Exteral                  4.50    5.70    8.86  -16.0   -2.60   -2.30
SOf Ioft (Cah oasIs)     -10.00  -18.90  -12.13D  -9.21  -30.18  -2.50)
FiDmlog                   10.00   1.60   12.30   18.21   30.18   2.50
External, Ibt           10.30    6.80   11.70    1.    -0.54    3.85
oldxz10ut              12.80   10.50   12.80   12.50   18.30   20.10
AmrtizatlIn 11         12.70   14.40   10.80   13.60   13.80    9.50
Prlrclpal Arrs         10.40   12.50    9.60  -48.50    -      -
ftflng Syst Rdab.    -         -       -     -2D.50  -12.50  -11.00
SW lal Progr           -       -       -       1.00    1.09    0.94
ebt Rlief              -       -       -      70.60    8.37    3.11
Internal. Not           -0.30    5.30    0.59    4.30    1.00    2.60
BaIlC                 -1.60    3.60   -2.30    1.86   -0.50    1.10
OUwr                    1.30    1.5D    2.80    2.70    1.50    1.50
SPA. SF aM Otrs          0.00    0.00    0.01   50.41   29.70   19.2
Mlr&U   (t81S:
ROmmiW                   12.40   11.78   10.89    8.28   11.00   11.78
Qrret Ep./P              15.94   15.98   13.23   10.38    9.81    9.4D
Capital Bip.M1            8.57    8.23    6.16    5.18    5.53    5.37
osflelt(Ou. basls)GP     -7.51   -7.09   -4.91   -5.83   3.48   -2.33
Ext. 0Obt Sarv.Amm
Before ResziIrg        33.00   37.21   32.77   43.53   30.94   21.33
After Resd*Ml lng      33.00   37.21   32.77   18.39   14.73   14.40
Sour: Offleial dt and Bark stAff set lust ar projeciw.



- 69 -
24-Wpr-9                            Table S. mmin: 1lOoinc  Proasats                      Am  VI
Ba1RI   of Pa)un, 19W5
(Somrlo *Ith Adjustnt)
( II law of USI at tr*mt prio)s)
1988   1     19W   1989       199D     19t         1 9 1893   1994  1095
-   AtCtul -      st-                Projttlawm -
Eports of m                      187.4  280.5  224.0  ZS0.8    289.8    292.2  318.8  350.2  W87.5  428.6
vort of NFS                      71.8  90.8  98.7  10B.7    115.7    124.7  128.4  133.0  137.8  142.8
IN"ort of ooN                   332.4  407.6  410.3  441.5    452.2    497.3  534.8  581.2  82L1  878.9
lorts of FS                     108.8  129.4  131.7  132.6    149.3    159.4  162.0  167.8  173.8  180.1
PAho   bswe                     -180.2 -185.7 -210.3 -217.2   -22.0   -239.8 -249.3 -285.7 -278.7 -287.6
bwlem  Rsinttuo   Relpts         79.7  81.2  84.8  32.7         9.3    1CQ.8  102.3  102.3  102.3  102.3
Ow Fator Servio Rhoslpto         0.0  -2.1  -5.1  -12.3        -8.8     -4.1  -0.2    1.0   2.2   2.8
Total Faor Survios PAsIptB       79.7  79.1   79.2  80.4       89.0      98.2  102.1  108.3  104.5  105.1
Intsrest cn OLT DA              -25.5  -25.6  -0.1  -28.5    -25.5    -22.2  -24.3  -27.4  -81.1  -88.3
Redrs' RnlttBo  Pauts             0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0         0.0       0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0
oUr Factor Srvio Paynt           -0.5  -1.0  -1.0  -1.0        -1.0      -1.0  -1.0  -1.0  -1.0  -1.0
TotAl Ftor SOrvice P nts        -25.0  -38.6  -1.1  -23.5    -2.5    -23.3  -25.3  -28.4  -2.1  -87.3
Not Ormt Transfers               10.0   9.0  15.2   0.0         0.0       0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0
Oat Ao=mt aairb                 -128.5 -133.1 -171.2 -108.3   -183.5   -164.8 -172.5 -190.9 -2D4.8 -219.8
PtRilo Oabt. Not                 -3.8  -4.4   12.7  20.9        a8.9     80.7  82.8  75.4  101.2  123.6
Dldxbrsmut                      54.1   58.8  64.8  87.8       88.2     97.3  97.0  111.2  187.6  184.0
MortlatlIan DA                 -57.9  -6.2  -51.0  -4.9    -4.2    348.8  -8.4  -35.8  -6.4  -4.4
S-Trom Capital/Errors I 0llsia    21.7  -78.2  -2D.8  -81.3     2.0      81.9  43.0   0.0   0.0   0.0
capital Qant 01Dbrauts           24.7  49.6  58.1   47.4        50.0     43.6  50.0  50.0  50.0  50.0
Oea I Salaive                   48.9 -184.1 -123.2 -12.8    -74.8    -23.7  -16.9  45.5  -5.2  -0.8
Flwclrg                          83.9  184.1  123.2  123.3     74.6      28.7   16.9  65.5  5.2  40.3
Exteri Arars                    87.9  87.0  57.6 -254.9       -8.0     -7.6  -7.6    -       -      -
avM  In Bmdlrq Syte
Not Forelpi Liabilties         -4.0   76.2  -1.0  -5.3    -60.0    -55.7  -20.0  -23.0  -25.0   0.0
Debt Rsllf                       -     -     BB.7  27.9       25.6      6.4    -      -      -      -
lUAU.                            -     -      -     45.0      0.0       0.0    -      -      -      -
lif                              -    -       -      8.6      12.5      8.6    -      -      -      -
alFu                             -     -      -r8.             8.6      3.1    -      -      -      -
Go                              0.0   0.0   0.0  111.7    101.5        78.9  44.5  88.6  78.2  40.3
1xWdA ItM:
Eowtsw                          17.8  21.0   18.1   18.8      19.0     19.1   19.0  19.0  19.0  19.1
IwrtaP                         30.3  32.1  3D.5  30.2         30.7     30.7  3D.5  30.3  30.0  29.7
Orrent kAt. WSAlP               -8.7  -8.0   -.6  -8.8        -8.1     -7.7  -7.6  -7.8  -7.8  -7.9
Oera baliw                      -5.8  -0.8  -8.9  -6.8        -3.7     -1.3  -0.7  -2.7  -2.0  -1.4
Dbt Servlos/ . before resch.  -52.8  -4.0  -44.4  -8.8    -81.7    -24.0  -22.6  -22.7  -22.7  -22.1
Obt ServioaeUS, after resahl.  -52.   -4.0  -44.4  -21.6    -22.0    -22.3  -21.7  -21.4  -20.5  -18.3
Smurve: OffhbIal  d;  Os; Ru*  and Fcrd StAff est lts Ed proectiou.



NIGER  /                       N   I  G   E   R                             /                   1b_i_
MALI                                                                                            --~.
C- ,      -. @ao             .      cHA                                                        I                      L TL
oo,, 1  .-  d i    -.                                                                        rO4 'i m-.- -- 
IM~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
OCEAN                         GAO   lOP \Ofw                                                       
i.            i   /    X  J 5 ~~~~~~Mol,fi                                            NIGERIA
BURKINA   FASO
i e  T/A K O R  ,j                                                                       -
IIA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O
As4TLANT/IC2:9erz0f 
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~_                                               Eni _R oad_s
w      tt                                i-J                        BEN~~~~~~~~IGEI
8.~~~~ 8  *                                                                                   t.
tr 02 g T                   0   R
0      R                        1    4        -t
7.                                                                                                                    7.~~~~0
N.A.r                                               '                E N I N
I .. /  s i. : ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~rvA    R-
. .............................................. . E ,, odI



