Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 10844
PROGRAM COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF BENIN
FIRST STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(CREDIT 2023-BEN)
JUNE 30, 1992
Occidental and Central Africa Department
Country Operations Division
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVAI-ENTS
(annual averages)
'T'he CFA franc (CFAF) is tied to the French Franc (FF) in the ratio ot FF I to CFAF 50. The FF is
currently floating within the parameters defined by the European Monetary System (EMIS).
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMIS
ACP         -    African. Carihbean and Pacitfic Countries
BBD         -    Banque BNninoise pour lo DNveloppement
(Development Bank of Benin)
BCB         -    Banque (ommerciale dLu 1enin
(Commercial Bank (of lenin)
L3CEAO      -    Banq(ule Centrale des Etats de l'AtriqLue (le l'O(uest
(Central Bank of West African States)
CAA         -    Caisse Autonome d'Amortissen1enft
(The National D.bt Management Agency)
CEB         -    Comrmunaute Electrique do Bchnin
(The Joint Benin'Togo Power Authority)
CNSAPAS  -    Comimlission Nationale diu Suivi de l'Application du Programme d'Ajustement
Structurel (National Comimiission tfOr Monitoring the Adjustment Program)
DCA         -    Development Cred!it Agreement
EC          -    European Community
FIR         -    Foonds d'Indeemniisation et de Remhoursement
(Reimbursement Fund for Bank Depositors)
IDA         -    International Developmiient Association
INIF        -    Internatilonal Monetary Fund
PFP         -    Po!icy; Framework Paper
PIP         -    Public Investment Program
PRPB        -    Parti RevoluItionnaire et Populaire du Btnin
(POpular ReoVIutionarv Party of Benin)
SAL         -    StructUral AdiLjustm01ent Ci edit/Program
SBEE        -    SOc)i&t 136ninoise (ie I'FatL et de l'Electricite
(I'he Water and Electricit) Parastatal)
UNIOA       -    LUnion %Ionltaire Ouest Atricaine
(West Atrican Monetary Union)
FISCAl \'EAR
January I t) Deemiber 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
June 30, 1992
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:  Program Completion Report on Benin - First Structural
Adjustment Credit (Credit 2023-BEN)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Program Completion Report on
Benin - First Structural Adjustment Credit (Credit 2023-BEN)" prepared by the Africa Regional Office.
No audit of this program has been made by the Operatiors Evaluation Department at this time.
Yves Rovani
by H. Eberhard Kopp
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
PROGRAM COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF BENIN
FIRST STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(CREDIT 2023-BEN)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PREFACE  ..............................................
EVALUATION SUMMARY  ...................................iii
PART I: PROGRAM  REVIEW  FROM  THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE                         1........ 
A.    Project Identity  ....................................                               I
B.    Introduction  ......................................                                 I
C.    The Historical, Political and Economic Context ................                      I
D.    Preparatior and Design of SAL I .........................                            3
E.   Program Results  ...................................                                  5
F.    Macroeconomic Performance ............................                              7
G.    Implementation and Monitoring of the Program  ................                       9
H.    Conclusions and Lessons of SAL I ........................                           10
PART II: PROGRAM REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE ...                                    11
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION  .........................                                   12
Project Timetable  .....................................                               12
Cumulative Credit Disbursement ............................                            12
Mission Data  ........................................                                 12
Staff Inputs  .........................................                                13
SAL I Disbursement Schedule ..............................                             14
ATTACHMENTS:
I. Second Tranche Release Memorandum (6/20/90)  ..................                          17
II. Matrix of SAL I Policy Measures ............................                            33
III. Main Economic Indicators .................................                              41
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- i -
PROGRAM COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF BENIN
FIRSI STRUCICTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(CREDIT 2023-BEN)
PREFACE
This is the Program Completion Report (PCR) for the First Structural Adjustment Program
in Benin for which Credit 2023-BEN in the amount of SDR 33.5 million was approved by the Executive
Directors in May 1989, and became effective in June 1989. Credit closing, originally anticipated for
March 1990 was extended to December 1990; the Credit was fully disbursed in November 1990 and
was then closed.
This PCR was prepared by staff of the Country Operations Division of the Occidental and
Central Africa Department (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III). The Beninese authorities
have undertaken an evaluation of the program (Part II), but it has not yet been received. When the
Borrower's completion report is finalized, it will be included in the project file. In view of the close
cooperation between Bank staff and the Government during the SAL I period, this assessment is not
expected to differ significantly from that of the Bank. The Borrower did communicate that they agree
with Part I and noted a few minor factual corrections which have been incorporated in the PCR.
This report is based, inter alia, on the President's Report, the Letter of Development Policy,
the Development Credit Agreement, supervision reports, the memorandum to the Executive Directors
recommending release of the second tranche, correspondence between the Bank and the Borrowe,
discussions with the Resident Mission, and internal Bank memoranda.



- iii -
PROGRAM COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF BENIN
FIRST STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(CREDIT 2023-BEN)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
A. Project Objectives
1.      The main quantitative objective of SAL I was to raise real GDP growth to an average of about
3% in 1989-91 and 4% thereafter within a viable macroeconomic framework (para. 11). Investment,
increasingly financed by national savings, was expected to average 13% of GDP in 1989-91, and a
significant improvement in Benin's overall balance of payments and financial position was projected.
Thus, exceptional (non-project) financing needs for 1989-91 were expected to decrease significantly by
1991, while the Government's overall deficit, as a percent of GDP was project_d to decline from 5.8%
in 1989 to 2.3 % by 1991 (para. 11).'
2.      The program's structural components aimed at a fundamental reorientation of Benin's
development strategy away from state intervention toward greater reliance on market forces (para. loff).
Specifically, it sought to: i) reduce the public sector's role in the economy, focusing it on a core set
of services whose delivery and management would be improved; ii) reinforce public sector resource
management by improving investment programming and the management of a reduced number of public
enterprises remaining in the Government's portfolio; iii) restructure the banking system as a basis for
resuming effective financial intermediation; and iv) reform incentive policies to promote private sector
activity (para. 12). A detailed description of SAL I policy measures is presented in the policy matrix
attached as Annex I.
B. Implementation Experience
3.      A major political and social crisis (para. 8) in the second half of 1989 delayed sustained
implementation of SAL I until early 1990. Thereafter program execution resulted in a significant
improvement in macroeconomic and public finance performance in 1990 and 1991, broadly in lne with
program targets (para. 23ff). Considerable progress was made in civil service reduction (para. 18),
fiscal system  (para. 17) and public enterprises reform  (para. 20), banking system  restructuring
(para. 21) and improving the incentive framework for the private sector (para. 22). This progress
constitutes the basis for broadening and deepening the adjustment process under SAL II, approved in
June 1991.
4.      Structural Reforms. The initial difficulties in program implementation delayed until 1990/91
some aspects of the fiscal reforms aimed at increasing resource mobilization. While the civil service
reduction program was successfully carried out in 1989, lack of external financing hampered its
I An official downward -evision of GDP estimates for the 1982-90 period resulted in an estimated
1989 GDP 16 percent lower than the previous estimate. Tne program targets here are expressed in terms
of the earlier GDP estimate.



- iv -
e.;ecution in 1990 and early 1991. The public investment program could not be carried out as planned
in 1989, and despite better program execution in 1990 and 1991, weaknesses in investment
progranr ing and monitoring remained, resulting in non-programmed expenditures (para. 19).
5.      Despite some delay in restructuring the banking system (para. 23), the liquidation of one state
bank was completed and that of the remaining two accelerated. Rehabilitation of the rural credit
network was begun. Four private commercial banks were established and attracted an impressive
volume of new deposits. The supervisory and regulatory framework of the banking system was
reinforced. However, progress in reimbursing depositors and reducing government obligations to the
central bank was significantly less than expected.
6.      Major improvemerts were made in the incentive framework for the private sector (para. 24).
Most kemaining price controls were removed prior to Board approval of SAL II. Deficiencies in the
study which was to serve as the basis for rationalizing the system of industrial tariff protection resulted
in the delayed implementation of this major reform.
7.      Macroeconomic Performance. Performance was broadly in line with progrrm targets i, 1990-
91, a!beit with some mixed results. After a 2% contraction in 1989, average GDP growth in 1990-91
was 3.5 %: aithough significant, the reduction in the fiscal deficit was less than projected (para. 25) and
*n 1989/90 the investment/GDP ratio and national savings rate fell to their lowest levels since 1985.
The 1989 external current account deficit was reduced by more than the targeted amount, due essentially
to sharply reduced imports; normalization of import activity resulted in a 1990 and 1991 deficits
comparable to the level before adoption of the program.  Consequently, exceptional financing
requirements increased over the 1989-91 period.
8.      Reporting and Auditing. The Government generally fulfilled its reporting and auditing
obligations under the Credit Agreement (para. 35).
C. Sustainability
9.      Major improvements in the macroeconomic and public finance situation were registered in
1990 and 1991, suggesting a significant response to the reform measures whose sustained
implementation only began after the resolution of the political crisis. The recent fundamental changes
in Benin have created a good basis for achieving the medium-term objectives of SAL I; a national
consensus now exists on the necessity of pursuing the adjustment program and should enable the deeper
distortions and structural deficiencies resulting from two decades of inappropriate policies to be
addressed.
D. Lessons Learned
10.     Two mains lessons can be drawn from SAL I (para. 37): i) the importar.e of maintaining
the policy dialogue even when progress towards adoption of an adjustment program is slow; and ii) the
positive contribution that firmness and joint donor action can make to re-establish conditions conducive
to program implementation and sustainability.



PROGRAM COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF BEigN
FIRST STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
(CRE:DIT 2023-BEN)
PART I. PROGRAM REVIEW  FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A. PROGRAM IDENTITY
Operation                  First Structural Adjustment Program
Credit Number       :      2023-BEN
Region              :      Africa
Country             :      Republic of Benin
Sector:                    Non-Project Lending
B. INTRODUCTION
1.    A First Structural Adjustment Credit (SAL I) to Benin in the amount of SDR 33.5 million
(US$45 million equivalent) was approved by the Executive Directors on May 23, and became effective
on June 28, 1989. The Credit was released in two equal tranches of US$22.5 million equivalent, the
first upon effectiveness, and the second upon fulfillment of. the second tranche release conditions.
SAL I was preceded and supported by an IDA-financed technical assistance project (Technical
Assistance III, Credit 1530-BEN, US$5.0 million equivalent) approved in December 1984, and by the
Public Enterprise Rehabilitation Project (Credit 1748-BEN, US$15 million e-quivalent) approved in
December 1986.
2.    Efforts to reform Benin's economy date back to 1982 but the adoption of a comprehensive
adjustment program represented a major shift in economic orientation, as ref.ected in the Government's
Statement of Development Strategy.' SAL I supported the first phase of this program. In addition to
IDA support, the program received significant financial assistance from other muitilateral and bilateral
donors, including the European Community (US$31.2 million), the African Development Bank
(US$14.0 million), France (US$37.2 million), Switzerland (US$9.7 million), Germany (US$5.7
million), Norway (US$3.4 million), anu a first annual arrangement (equivalent to 20% of quota, or
SDR 6.28 million) under the IMF's Structural Adjustment Facility.
3.    A Second Structural Adjustment Credit, Credit 2283-BEN, of SDR 41.3 million (US$55 million
equivalent) was approved by the Board on June 27, 1991, and became effective on October 15, 1991.
C. THE HISTORICAL, POLITICAL. AND ECONOMIC CONTEXT
4.    Benin, then called Dahomey, was brought into France's empire in the 1890s after valiant
resistance by the last warrior king, Gbehanzin. For a number of reasons, the Beninese quickly
established a relative prominence and were foutid in administrative and professional functions all over
French West Africa. With independence in the early 1960s, many of this colonial ministerial class were
' Report No. P-4931-BEN, Annex V.



-2-
no longer welcome and had to return to Benin. The country's political and soc;al instability in the
1960s was in part due to the presence of this newly dispossessed intellectual elite.
5.    In 1972, after a period of repeated changes of government and political aclivism by powerful
trade unions, Mathieu Kerekou seized power in a military coup.  Benin officially became a
revolutionary socialist state and cultivated close links with the communist bloc. Consistent with marxist-
leninist ideology, economic policy from 1975 was driven primarily by government efforts to accelerate
economic growth and development by increasing state ownership of productive activities. Most private
businesses and financiai institutions were nationalized, many public enterprises were created, collective
farming systems were established in agriculture, and a highly regulated framework was put in place to
govern private activity and trade. Large public industrial investments were made, mostly with foreign
borrowing. New taxes were introduced and others increased. The expansion of the state's role was
associated with a triplin. of the civil service. Due in part to oil and uranium booms ia neighboring
Nigeria and Niger, but also as a consequence of activity under the first state plan, the economic impact
of these policies was initially favorable, with growth averaging 5% in 1977-80, in a context of interi.al
and external stability.
6.     By 1983, the end of the boom in neighboring countries and completion of major public sector
projects had revealed an economic structure saddled with poorly-designed, low-return investi ants,
heavy external debt service, an incentive framework inhosr'table to private activity, and a poorly
managed and loss-making state-dominated modern sector. The Government then began to look
increasingly to the West for development assistance. One result of this still tentative opening was the
establishment of a World Bank Resident Mission i:- Cotonou in 1983. By the late 1980s, excessively
expansionary macroeconomic policies had resulted in internal and external imbalances that were
unsustainable. In early 1989 the banking system's collapse resulted in a freeze on deposits and a sharp
drop in the proportion of taxes paid in liquid form.
7.     The Government's initial response to these difficulties was piecemeal, and included measures
in the area of investment programming, elimination of irregular salary payments, agricultural producer
pricing, public enterprise reform, liberalization of transport, and public utility pricing. A number of
IDA-financed projects (including Technical Assistance III and the Public Enterprise Rehabilitation
Project) supported these efforts. By themselves, bowever, the measures adopted were insufficient to
contain the economic crisis, although they addresse important issues. This was ultimately recognized
by the Government in 1988/89 when it adopted a more comprehensive approach to structural adjustment
supported by IDA's SAL I and the IMF's first-year SAF.
8.    The establishment of the National Commission in charge of SAL negotiations in 1986 to prepare
an adjustment program (para. 32) marked the decline of the regime's most powerful political structure
by removing iesponsibility for macroeconomic policy from the Politbureau of the single political party
(le Parti pour la Revolution Populaire du Benin, or PRPB) to the ministers who reported directly to the
President. Thereafter, the implementation of prior actions for SAL I (e.g. a civil service census,
computerization of the payroll, audits of banks, etc.) induced greater transparency in public expenditure
management and began to reduce political patronage. By early 1989, civil servants, other workers'
groups, and the private sector began to view the Bank as an ally in the search for better governance.
In December 1989, Colonel Kerekou's government officially abandoned marxism-leninism but popular
outrage at the regime could not be overcome; thereafter, Benin's transition to a more oren and pluralist
society was rapid. A National 2onference in February 1990 established an interim government and a
more broadly representative legislative body; a referendum was held on a new constitution and, iP early
1991, multi-party presidential elections gave Nicephore Soglo (Prime Minister in the interim
Government) an overwhelming victory. Former President Kerekou now leads a quite life in Cotonou.



-3-.
This dramatic and bloodless unseating of a totalitarian regime has encouraged and inspired others
seeking orderly political change elsewhere on the African continent. However unintended it was, SAL I
played an important part in this transformation (para. 10) by empowering key segments of the
population who would settle for nothing less than a complete change in the regime.
D. PREPARATION AND DESIGN OF SAL I
9.    The First Structural Adjustment Program was the culmination of a slow and difficult seven-year
policy dialogue between the Government -- dominated by the PRPB -- and the Bank. Faced with an
increasingly disastrous economic situation in 1986-87 and evidence that past policies had failed, key
members of the PRPB's Politbureau softened their ideological opposition to a reform program. By
mid-1988 when SAL I was appraised, the Government had substantially completed preparation of its
Statement of Development Strategy and had made progress in its parallel dialogue with the IMF.
Program Description and Objectives
10.   SAL I represented a fundamental reorientation of the Government's development strategy away
from dirigisme towards greater reliance on private sector initiative and market forces. The program's
major focus was consequently on public sector reform and the creation of an incentive framework
supportive of private sector development. At the outset, the Bank recognized the high risks associated
with the operation,2 but believed that these were reduced by the large number of prior actions
implemented and the broad-based domestic participation in the formulation of the program. The Bank
could not of course foresee that the mounting political and social crisis3 would initially impede program
implementation and culminate in the eno of the regime.
11.   The macroeconomic objectives established by the Government and the Bank entailed a
substantial increase in real GDP over the program period: in contrast to the virtual stagnation of GDP
in 1987-88, average growth rates in 1989-1991 were projected at 3% and thereafter were expected to
approach 4%, with the primary sector serving as the main engine of growth. The investment/GDP ratio
was projected at some 13% over the program period, up from 11.5% in 1988. To finance this level
of investment while reducing external imbalances, the national savings rate was expected to increase
gradually to the equivalent of 5.4% of GDP by 1991. Reflecting the projected improvement in the
overall financial and fiscal situation, the external current account deficit/GDP ratio and the overall
budget deficit/GDP ratio were expected to decline to 7.7% and 2.3% respectively by 1991.
Accordingly, exceptional financing needs were projected to decrease from US$440 million in 1989 to
US$89 million in 1991.
12.   Structural measures under the program focu.;: ;d on: reforming fiscal legislation and the tax
system; reducing the number of civil servants ar.J administrative reform of the civil service;
privatization, liquidation, or rehabilitation of a large number of public enterprises; restructuring the
banking system; reforming the system of industrial tariff protection and the adoption of a new
investment code and revised labor and commercial legislation. Prior to Board approval of SAL 1, the
Government implemented a large number of up-front actions in most of these areas.
2 These were identified as: i) further terms of trade losses resulting from lower export prices; ii)
domestic political opposition from beneficiaries of the previous dirigiste policies; and iii) difficulties in
finding a foreign private bank to establish a branch in Benin.
3 Including the growing perception that the burden of adjustment was not being equally shared.



-4-
13.   A major SAL I reform in the field of resource mobilization was the replacement of the internal
turnover tax with a general expenditure tax applicable to domestic goods and services and to imports.
Through the implementation of the civil service voluntary departure program, SAL I was designed to
further the key objective of reducing and restructuring current expenditure, in support of which partial
measures had been introduced beginning in 1986.  Some progress had already been made in
restructuring the public enterprise sector since 1986 under the Public Enterprise Rehabilitation Project
(para. 7); SAL I was intended to consolidate this progress by further reducing the size of the public
enterprise sector and through better management and financial performance of those enterprises
remaining in the Government's portfolio. In the bankir.g sector, the three defunct state banks were to
be liquidated and their depositors partially repaid, while the establishment of at least one internationally
renowned private bank and reinforcement of banking supervision/regulation were expected to contribute
to more efficient financial intermediation. The incentive framework for the private sector was expected
to be significantly improved through trade policy reform, and deregulation measures.
14.   Role of the Bank and IMF: Much of the groundwork for SAL I was laid in the context of other
investment projects supported by IDA and through the Bank's economic and sector .ork. Beginning
in 1982, the Bank's assistance strategy for Benin shifted from a focus on financing traditional investment
projects to support of macroeconomic management and rehabilitation of key sectors, with the ultimate
goal being the initiation of a comprehensive adjustment program.  Economic and sector work
emphasized public sector management and sector efficiency issues, and the lending program included
credits for infrastructure rehabilitation and for adjustment in the parastatal and cotton sectors. With the
advancement of the policy dialogue in 1988 the Bank's assistance strategy was redesigned to make the
SAL the centerpiece of IDA lending to Benin. Economic and sector work completed before that time
(in particular the 1984 Country Economic Memorandum and the 1987 Public Expenditure Review), as
well as IDA-financed projects already underway (notably the Public Enterprise Rehabilitation Project,
the Third Technical Assistance Project, and the Second Borgou Rural Development Project) contributed
significantly to the design and content of SAL 1. SAL I was appraised in mid-1988 and negotiated the
following November but Board presentation was postponed to May 1989 to permit joint processing with
the First-Year Policy Framework Paper (PFP) in concert with the IMF.4 Bank management proved
far-sighted in nurturing the policy dialogue with Benin despite very slow progress over the years.
15.   In the years preceding the adoption of the structu.al adjustment program, Benin requested and
received (in addition to the annual Article IV Consultations) several IMF staff visits to pursue a dialogue
on a possible stabilization program. Three IMF technical assistance missions reviewed the fiscal system
and estimated expenditure arrears. The policy dialogue with the IMF was slow for the same reasons
as was the Bank-Benin dialogue but preparation of a sound current budget for 1988 and the
Government's decision to embrace a comprehensive adjustment program moved it forward considerably,
and an IMF mission to Cotonou in July 1988 began preparatory work for a SAF program to be adopted
in parallel with SAL I. Bank and Fund staff assisted the Government in elaborating its First-Year
Policy Framework Paper; the SAF program and the PFP were approved by the Fund Board in June
1989.
4 The policy analysis underpinning most of the reforms contained in the PFP was produced primarily
by Bank staff in the 2-3 years preceding SAL I approval. For the most part, the IMF remained highly
skeptical of the Government's commitment to an adjustment program until mid-1988.



-5-
E. PROGRAM RESULmS
16.   With more sustained program implementation after the resolution of the political crisis in early
1990, and a firm domestic consensus on the need to pursue structural adjustment, performance in 1990
and 1991 was broadly in line with program targets.
O7.    Although measures were put in place to strengthen the performance of the customs and tax
directorates both prior to and after Board approval, implementation of other measures aimed at
improving _source mobilization experienced some delays.  Thus the introduction of a general
expenditure/value added tax, a key fiscal reform initially planned to coincide with the 1990 budget, had
to be postponed to 1991 due to administrative delays consequent on the social crisis, the longer
preparatory period required, and given the need to coordinate it with the reform of the main revenue
source, import taxes, which was also delayed. The 30% across-the-board reduction in the value of
imports into Cotonou subject to taxation, introduced by the Government as a transitional measure to
raise cash revenue after the collapse of the banking system in early 1989, also proved
counterproductive, particularly in view of a sharp contraction of import volumes that year. Reso,urce
mobilization improved dramatically in 1990 and 1991, with the revenue targets being broadly attained;
revenue performance in 1991 benefitted significantly from implementation of the value added tax, and
also from improved customs revenue with the restoration of import taxation to the full c.i.f. value, a
substantial increase in import volumes, and the reform of the customs services.
18.   Concerning piublic employment, personnel expenditure (including pensions and scholarships)
was reduced from CFAF 48.6 billion in 1988 to CFAF 43.5 billion in 1990 through the combined
effects of normal retirements, a hiring freeze, and departures under the voluntary departure program.
The number of departures was, however, below program targets (1,590 had left by end-December 1990,
as against a target of 2,500 by end-June 1990), primarily because the external financing required for
severance payments was unavailable and due to donors' insistence that the program be revised to reflect
the organizational needs of the ministries; the absence of any departures in 1991 after the revised
program was agreed to reflected the Government's difficulties in negotiations with tht civil servants'
unions, and contributed to a slight increase in the wage bill. Although some of the groundwork had
been laid prior to SAL I (civil service census, use of computer records, identifying deficiencies in basic
personnel management texts, etc.), less progress was made in improving the administration and
efficiency of the civil service than expected. Payroll irregularities continued partly as the result of the
co-existence of two different civil service registers, one at the Ministry of Labor and Social Affairs
(responsible for managing the civil service) and the other at the Ministry of Finance. Additional
administrative reform measures are therefore being pursued under SAL II.
19.   Despite a number of reforms introduced and technical assistance provided prior to SAL I
approval, the public investment programming, implementation, and monitoring process continued to
show significant weaknesses. Notwithstanding the Government's stated policy, PIP proposals submitted
for IDA review during the SAL I period included many projects which lacked econonrc justification
and did not reflect agreed sectoral strategies. Given the overall macroeconomic and public finance
situation, the 1989 portion of the agreed 3-year PIP could not be executed as planned. With an
improved overall situation in 1990 and 1991, the rate of PIP execution increased, but an appreciable
amount of non-programmed expenditures was registered. IDA-financed technical assistance for
investment programming was also less effective than had been expected. Under SAL II, and with the
support of the IDA-financed Pre-Investment Project, significant attention is being given to improving
PIP preparation, execution, and monitoring.
20.   The restructuring of the public enterprise sector, was one of the more successfully implemented
components of SAL I. Three enterprises were liquidated, another three successfully privatized, bids



were issued (but the offers made were unattractive) for sale of another six, and diagnostic studies were
completed for eight others; these studies are now being used as the basis for further restructuring and
privatization efforts under SAL II. As a result of these and earlier efforts, the Government's portfolio,
whkch included 60 industrial and commercial enterprises at end-1986 was reduced to 29 by end-1990.
In 19i91 the Government issued bids for the privatization of an additional six enterprises, and a contract
for the most important of these was recently finalized. With external assistance of IDA and other
donors, key enterprises remaining in the Government's portfolio (such as the public utility and cotton
ginning/marketing parastatals) were rehabilitated. However, agreement or solutions to the problems
faced vy two enterprises that occupy strategic positions in the sugar and cement sectors was delayed (in
part due to the reluctance of the Nigerian Government, the co-owner), the financial position of a number
of enterprises (e.g. social security, petroleum distribution) deteriorated further, while monitoring of
e-nterprise financial performance and investment activity was inadequate.
21.    Substantial progiess was made in restructuring the banking systerm under SAL I, despite some
delays. The liquidation of the agricultural credit bank (CNCA) was completed in late-1990, liquidation
proceedings for the other two state-owned banks (BBD and BCB) were accelerated, and a unit
established to p!trsue recovery of their loans. After a long search for a foreign private partner to
participate in the establishment of a new commercial bank, four new private commercial banks were
operational by early 1990; by end-1990, these banks had collected an impressive amount (about
CFAF 45 billion) in new deposits, despite their lack of international standing.5 Progress in reimbursing
depositors with accounts frozen in the banking system was, however, significantly less than planned,
due to delays in establishing the reimbursement fund (the FIR), failure to use allocated external
assistance, and the delayed response of small depositors in collecting their reimbursements. Payments
to reduce the Government's obligations to the BCEAO (which had already been rescheduled) also fell
far below targets, due to shortfalls in external disbursements. On the other hand, the banking system
supervisory and regulatory framework was reinforced as part of the 1989 ECEAO reforms.
22.   The implementation of trade reform and deregulation measures gathered momentum after the
establishment of the transitional government in early 1990. A new investment code and revised labor
and commercial legislation were adopted in April/May 1990; however the subsidiary legislation required
to implement these reforms was not passed until December 1990. Although the amendments introduced
were generally in line with the core objectives of the reform, a number of provisions in the new
investment code and the labor and commercial laws were subsequently found to be unsatisfactory;
experience with implementation of the investment code and labor and commercial legislation will be
reviewed under SAL II and further revisions are expected before release of the third tranche. The
revised commercial law removed import licensing requirements for the bulk of Benin's imports (i.e.
from franc zone, EC, and ACP countries). An action plan tc implement reforms in the system of
industrial tal iff protection could not be adopted because the study conducted by outside consultants was
deficient. Based on the technical adjustments to tariff rates introduced in the context of restoring the
import tax base to the full c.i.f. value in early 1991, a thorough reform of the tariff structure will be
implemented before release of the third tranche of SAL II; remaining export taxes will also be removed.
I The search for an internationally renowned bank to take over the sound portion of the BCB's
portfolio was unsuccessful as the concessions demanded by potential candidates proved unaccuptable.
It was recognized that less well-placed but acceptable banks should be allowed to set up. These new
banks are regional commercial banks with limited correspondents.



-7-
F. MACROECONOMIC PERFORMANCE
23.   The ambitious macroeconomic targets of SAL I were largely unmet in 1989 but program results
were broadly on target thereafter. Real GDP growth, projected at 2.5% for 1989, was an estimated -
2.0%, despite a significant increase in value-added in the agricultural sector (from increased cotton
output); per capita incomes reached their lowest levels in five years. The rate of inflation, as measured
by the GDP deflator, approximated 3.6%. Reflecting the large contraction in fixed investment, the
gross investment/GDP ratio fell to 7.7% as against the program target of 12.6%; the national savings
rate, projected at 3.9%, barely approached 1.7%, the lowest level in several years. The dramatic
improvement in the 1989 current account deficit was largely temporary, reflecting the large contraction
of imports, the extraordinary performance of cotton exports, and the accumulation of external arrears.
The increase in net official inflows to finance the program and reduction of the trade deficit resulted
in a major improvement in the balance of payments.
24.   Overall macroeconomic performance improved dramatically in 1990. Largely in response to
the recovery of trade and commerce, real GDP rose by an estimated 4.0% and the rate of inflation
remained low at 1.9%. At 11.7% and 3.6% of GDP, respectively, the gross investment and national
savings rates showed a major improvement over 1989, although they remained below program targets.
As imports returned to more normal levels, the current account deficit widened to the equivalent of
8.1% of GDP; with the commercial banks pursuing an extremely prudent lending policy, the net
external assets of the banking system rose by CFAF 23.5 billion (33 billion in 1989). Preliminary
estimates for 1991 indicate a continuation of the positive trends registered in 1990, with real GDP
growth of 3.0% and an inflation rate of 1.0%; the 1991 current account deficit deteriorated fuirther,
however, reflecting a large expansion of import volumes.
25.   Although expenditures were kept below program levels, the overall budget deficit widened to
the equivalent of 10.5% of GDP in 1989, mainly the result of a 27% decline in government revenues.
The latter was in turn the consequence of several factors, including the collapse of the banking system,
the contraction in aggregate demand, a decrease in transit trade, an increase in illicit imports, and a
decline in the efficiency of revenue collection due to intermittent civil service strikes and growing fraud.
Current expenditure, on a commitment basis, was kept 4% below program levels, but salary arrears
were nonetheless incurred. Reflecting the non-availability of domestic counterpart funds and the freeze
in disbursements by some donors in response to the accumulation of arrears, central government
investment expenditure was 15% below program targets. The overall budget deficit was reduced to
9.7% of GDP in 1990 reflecting continued restraint on expenditures and an 11% increase in revenue,
which, at some 9.6% of GDP, was however still below program targets. At the equivalent of 11% of
GDP, revenue performance in 1991 was broadly in ;ine with program targets, reflecting the
improvement in the overall economic environment, the positive impact of the value added tax introduced
in early 1991, as well as improved customs revenue collection. The close to 20% increase in revenues
facilitated the attainment of a balance in the Government's primary operations6 in 1991. The overall
budget deficit was further reduced to 7.9% of GDP in 1991.
26.   The somewhat mixed macroeconomic performance under SAL I are above all the result of the
unforeseen social and political crisis during the initial six months of program implementation. An
additional factor beyond the Government's control was the absence of a banking system throughout 1989
6 Excluding internal and external interest payments, but including the Government's contribution to
the public investment program.



(despite strenuous efforts to attract a private foreign partner).7 This, of course, had a profound
negative impact on government revenues and the overall economy. Given its transitional nature, the
interim government established in early 1990 demonstrated courage in implementing difficult adjustment
measures which subsequently bore fruit in the greatly improved macroeconomic and public finance
performance registered in 1990 and 1991.
27.   Sustainability: The major economic and financial restructuring implied by the macroeconomic
targets constitute medium-term objectives whose full achievement was not feasible in the relatively short
time period of SAL 1, which was meant to be only the first in a series of IDA-supported operations for
Benin's adjustment efforts. The time-frame for achieving some of these objectives has therefore been
extended to the SAL II period (1991-93). Macroeconomic and public finance developments both in
1990 and 1991 were very encouraging, suggesting a lasting response to the implementation of
adjustment measures. The recent profound changes in political and economic orientation, leading to
a reinforced consensus on the need for fundamental reform, should contribute to the sustainability of
the structural adjustment process. Based on these developments, and on the continued rigorous
implementation of the adjustment program, real GDP growth is projected to average 3.4% in 1991-93,
thereafter approaching 4%; real increases in per capita income and consumption should become possible
by 1993. However, because medium-term growth is so heavily dependent on cotton, crude oil and re-
exports, Benin will continue to be vulnerable to developments in world export and regional markets on
which the Government's economic policies have no impact.
28.   The reduction of budgetary imbalances will require a longer time-span than envisaged under
SAL 1. The generation of a current budget surplus, originally programmed for 1990, will not be
possible before 1994; an interim objective of obtaining a surplus in the Government's primary
operations by 1992 has been agreed upon under SAL II and, based on the encouraging 1991
performance, is attainable. Present projections are for a significant deterioration in the external current
account deficit in 1991-92 followed by a gradual improvement to the equivalent of 8.5% of GDP by
1994; Benin will continue to require significant amounts of exceptional financing (including debt relief)
well into the mid-1990's, although these should decline sharply by 1993.
Second Tranche Release
29.   A total of 40 broad categories of reform actions were included in the SAL I policy matrix
(Annex I), five of which were listed in the Development Credit Agreement as specific conditions for
second tranche release. These entailed: i) the departure of 750 civil servants by end-December 1989;
ii) the liquidation of two enterprises, the privatization of seven others, and the completion of diagnostic
studies for another ten; iii) the abolition of import licenses for goods from the franc zone, the European
Community, and the ACP countries; iv) agreement on action plans to (a) implement reforms in the
import taxation and industrial protection systems, (b) replace the domestic turnover tax with a general
expenditure tax, and (c) adopt a new investment code; and v) the adoption of simplified business
registration, permit, and reporting procedures, and the amendment of the labor law to simplify hiring
and firing.
30.   Initially planned for December 1989, second tranche release was approved by the Board in June
1990. This delay was mainly the result of unsatisfactory macroeconomic performance in 1989 and of
slower progress than anticipated in fulfilling conditions i, ii, and iv (c) above. The request for the
waiver of condition iv (a), due to the deficient tariff reform study, was granted; eight of the ten
' The SAL I President's Report correctly identified this as one of the main risks to program
implementation.



-9-
diagnostic studies in condition ii were completed, and this condition was therefore deemed to have been
substantially met, while the other specific conditions were judged to have been fully met. With the
substantial improvement in revenue performance and the overall macroeconomic situation following the
establishment of the transitional government in early 1990, the Executive Directors agreed that the
structural adjustment program was proceeding satisfactorily and that release of the second tranche was
therefore warranted.
31.   Missions visited Benin in November/December 1989 and March/April 1990 to review progress
towards second tranche release. The latter mission concluded that most conditions had indeed been
fulfilled and spelled out in detail the remaining actions required. Additional documentation requested
to confirm implementation of these actions was received in May 1990; the Government was then
informed after Board approval in June 1990 that the second tranche was avaiiable for disbursement, six
months later than originally envisaged.
G. IMPLEMENTATION AND MONITORING OF THlE PROGRAM
32.   Borrower Performance: The inter-ministerial Commission Nationale du Suivi de l'Application
du Programme d'Ajustement Structurel (CNSAPAS), established in 1989, was responsible for
overseeing implementation and monitoring of SAL 1. Chaired by the Minister of Finance, it included
the Ministers of Planning, Industry, Energy, and Public Enterprises, Commerce, Rural Development,
Justice, and Labor and Social Affairs. Due to the prevailing crisis, supervision by the Government
during the six months following Board approval was inadequate, but improved significantly thereafter.
Day-to-day coordination of the CNSAPAS's various sub-commissions was assured by a technical
secretariat; the CNSAPAS met regularly during the program period, and beginning in late-1990, the
Prime Minister (now President) chaired weekly meetings of the Commission, with the participation of
the Bank and IMF Resident Representatives. This reflected the significantly increased political
commitment to the program after the transitional government assumed office. The Government
generally fulfilled its obligation to submit regular progress reports to the Bank on the adjustment
program, although the quality and timeliness of the reporting suggested the need for further
improvements, better monitoring, and even closer inter-ministerial/agency coordination.
33.   Bank Performance: The first two SAL I supervision missions were relatively brief (Part III);
in addition to a change in headquarters staff task management and of the Bank's Resident Representative
in Cotonou,8 the second and (longer) third missions were conducted in the midst of the salary-payment
and political crises of October-December 1989. This limited the extent to which the Government's
attention could be focused on the program's structural elements, although the full range of SAL
measures was reviewed during the third mission which overlapped with a parallel IMF mission. By
informing President Kerekou in December 1989 that continued donor support could not be justified in
the prevailing circumstances, the third mission contributed to the re-establishment of conditions
conducive to the implementation of the program. The fourth (and last) supervision mission which
assessed progress towards second tranche release included the participation of an IMF staff member,
and reviewed public finance and overall progress, as well as specific SAL I conditionalities.
34.   Disbursement and Procurement: With the exception of some electricity imports by the Societe
Beninoise de l'Eau et de l'Electricite (SBEE) from the CEB in Togo, the bulk of the Credit was
I The Resident Representative departed Cotonou in September 1989. For an interim period between
November 1989 and April 1990 when a new Resident Representative was appointed, the Bank's
Representative in Lome, Togo managed the Benin Resident Mission, spending two days a week in
Cotonou.



- 10 -
disbursed against private sector imports (for which normal commercial practices were found acceptable
by IDA at appraisal); there was no use of international competitive biddirg under SAL I, and
disbursements were made upon presentation of proofs of payment. Nonetheless, mobilization of the
resources of the first tranche was slow due to serious difficulties experienced by the CAA in amassing
import invoices and customs declarations. With the establishment of new banks in early 1990, these
difficulties were subsequently overcome, permitting quicker disbursement of the second tranche.
35.   Reporting and Auditing: In conformity witl. the Development Credit Agreement (DCA), the
Government provided reports on progress in implementing the adjustment program prior to supervision
missions and the required periodic exchange of views with the Bank. The financial audit of SAL I
accounts for 1989 and 1990 was completed in July 1991 and a qualified opinion submitted to the Bank
in October 1991. Given the administrative weaknesses at CAA, including the unsatisfactory accounting
system, the qualified opinion of the auditors was expected. Contrary to the provisions of the DCA, the
Credit accounts were not kept separate from those of CAA; since the latter did not keep copies of
supporting documentation, the auditors could not verify the justification of import invoices for some
33% of SAL I disbursements or rule out the possibility of double usage. The collapse of the banking
system made it impossible for some private sector importers to produce satisfactory proofs of payment.
In view of this unsatisfactory experience, responsibility for submitting withdrawal applications under
SAL II has been transferred from the CAA to the BCEAO, Cotonou.
H. CONCLUSIONS AND LESSONS OF SAL I
36.   SAL I was a major breakthrough after many years of a difficult policy dialogue between the
Bank and the Government of Benin. The core objective of reducing the public sector's role in the
economy and creating an enabling environment for expanded private sector activity entailed a
fundamental shift in previous economic policies (para. 10). Initially overshadowed by a profound
political crisis, its implementation resulted in a significant improvement in Benin's macroeconomic and
public finance performance and in the adoption of major structural reforms in 1990-91.
37.   The political crisis was itse:f partly fueled by the failure of the marxist government to deliver
the benefits promised by the adjustment program; that the February 1990 National Conference
subsequently endorsed the program is evidence of the important role the SAL played in forging a
domestic consensus for comprehensive economic reform. Perhaps its most important achievement is
the acceptance, at all levels of Beninese society, of a severely limited role for government in economic
activity. Its most important lessons, applicable for the most part to other country experiences, may be
summarized as follows:
(i) Devoting adequate Bank resources to pursuing the policy dialogue with countries in which
progress is painfully slow can eventually reap important rewards. Over a period of seven years
Bank management remained committed, despite years of frustration, to convincing the
Government that a fundamental reorientation of its policies was required to lay the basis for
sustainable growth. Not only was the Government finally convinced; in addition a national
consensus emerged in Benin that structural adjustment was inevitable and beneficial.
(ii) Firmness on the part of donors when a program has gone off track can contribute to the
emergence of a better basis for program implementation, and thus to eventual success. By
insisting to the Beninese authorities in December 1989 that additional donor (including IDA)
support was incompatible with the existence of widespread civil servants' and teachers' strikes
and the loss of a full academic year, donors (including the Bank) made a positive contribution
to the evolution of the program. The concerted and constructive response by donors was an
important element in the peaceful resolution of the social crisis.



- II -
38.   In conclusion, initial difficulties in program execution were overcome and permitted a significant
improvement in economic performance once adjustment measures were consistently pursued. Given
the extent of Benin's economic deterioration prior to adoption of the adjustment program, the progress
made under SAL I in 1990 and 1991 is commendable and forms the basis for deepening the adjustment
process under SAL 11. It will, nonetheless, take many years of strong adjustment to remove the deep-
seated constraints to growth, particularly in view of the economy's heavy dependence on a few export
commodities (para. 27).
PART 11. PROGRAM REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
39.   The Bank has formally requested that the Government of Benin submit a Program Completion
Report.9 By letter of November 5, 1991, the Government informed the Bank that efforts to produce
the Report were underway. The Government's assessment is unlikely to differ from that contained in
Part I, since it generally reflects the dialogue between both parties during the SAL I period, and during
the preparation of SAL II.
9 During SAL 11 Negotiations, through a fax message to the Resident Mission dated September 24,
1991, and through a letter from the Resident Representative to the Minister of Plan dated October 1,
1991.



- 12 -
PART IlIl. STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Eno=EC TELTABLE
First Mention in Files             December 1987
Initiating Memorandum              June 1988
Letter Of Development Policy       April 1989
Negotiations                       November 1988
Board Approval                     May 23, 1989
Credit Agreement                   May 26, 1989
Effectiveness                      June 28, 1989
Original Credit Closing            March 1990
Actual Credit Closing              November 1990
CUMULATIV CREDff DISBUllNM
Amounts (USSmillion)
FY90          FY91
(i) Total Credit Amount      45.0           0
(ii) Actual                  21.0           23.1
(iii) (ii) as % of Total     46.7 %         51.3 %
(iii) Cumulave Amount        46.7 %         98.0 % 1/
_                               MISSION DATA
Montb/Year      No. Of Weeks   No. of Persons   Staff Weeks
Appraisal      June/July 1988         3                8              24
Negotiations    November 1988          1              10               10
Supervision I    June/July 1989        1               2               2
Supervision E    October 1989         2                3               4
Supervision M    Nov/Dec. 1989        3                2               5
Supervision IV   March/April           3               5               12
1990
1/ The difference be4ween the original credit amount and actual disbursements is due to
fluctations in USSISDR exchange rate over the disbursement period.



- 13 -
S[AFF ER
Staff Weekss
._______ .FY88          FY89        FY90         FY91        FY92
LENP       53.8         6.1
LENA       2.7          51.3
LENN               .   26.9                 .       .                   l
SPN              _      5.0         43.6        .7                 ..._ l
PCR                                             I               8.0
TOTAL STAFE INPUTS: 198.1



- 14 -
(US$ equivalent)
07/21/89               3,S10,511.46
07/21/89               1,306,938.54
08/30/89               7,252,946.52
11/06/89               2,568,632.45
11/06/89            -1,224,234,74
07/21/89               3,510,511.46-
07/21/89               1,306,938.54-
07/21/89               3,510,511.46
0712i1l89              1,306,938.54
12/04/89               2,356,255.50
12/04/89               1,305,001.23
12/22/89               1,524,298.54
ITOTAL CY_        21,040.818.98
07/17/90               1,061,766.72
07/17/90                861,260.37
07/17/90               1,169,845.01
07/17/90               1,105,029.81
07/17/90               1,110,635.54
07/17/90               1,268,730.45
07/17/90               1,608,430.76
07/17/90               1,521,837.47
07/25/90               4,367,313.69-
07/25/90               8,734,627.39
08/41/90               1,704,952.25-
08/21/90               3,409,904.50
08/31/90                 769,378.71-



- 15 -
RATE              1 2 AMOLNT
(US$ equivalent)
08/31/90                 1,538,757.42
09/19/90                  301,918.13-
09/19/90                  603,836.26
09/25/90                 1,811,540.13-
09/25/90                4,368,218.93
10/02/90                 268,798.16
11/05/90                3,406,325.77
TOTAXL CY90        23,082,901.65
I.L EYDR C URJ    44,131,720.63



- 17 -                      Attachment I
Intemational Development Association   Paae 1 of 15
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
FOR                                                      .or consideration on
EXECUTIVE                                                T7hursday, June 28, 1990
DIRECTORS'
MEETING
IDA/R90-110
FROM:  Vice President and Secretary                          June 20, 1990
BENIN:  Structural Adjustment Credit (Cr. 2023-BN)
Second Tranche Release - Waiver of Condition
Attached is a memorandum from the President entitled "Benin --
Structural Adjustment Credit (Cr. 2023-BEN) - Second Tranche Release
Waiver of Condition" daced June 20, 1990.
In view of the significant political and economic changes in Benin
which had led to the resumption of the adjustment program this item is
scheduled for discussion at the Executive Directors' meeting to be held
on Thursday. June 28. 1990.
Questions on this document may bs referred to Ms. A. Sayeh
(ext. 34719).
Distribution:
Executive Directors ana Alternates
President
Senior Vice Presidents
Senior Management Council
Vice Presidents, IFC and MIGA
Directors and Department Heads, Bank, IFC and MIGA
This document has a restncted discribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their ofricial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Attachment I
- 18-                   Page .2of 15
FROM:  The President                                  June 20, 1090
BENIN -- Structural Adjustment Credit (Cr. 2023-BEN)
Second Tranche Release - Waiver of Condition*
1.       As provided for in Section 3.01 of the Development Credit
Agreement for the Structural Adjustment Program (Cr. 2023-BEN),
representatives of the Association and the Government of Benin held
discussions in Cotonou in November/December 1989, and in March/April 1990
to review progress achieved in implementing the structural adjustment
program supported by the credit approved in May 1989. Additional
documentation requested by the staff was received in May 1990.
2.       This memorandum summarizes the conclusions of the mid-term
review, and requests the approval of the Executive Directors for the
waiver of one of the second tranche conditions. It concludes that
overall progress under the structural adjustment program was initially
constrained by a deteriorating public finance situation, as well as by
major political and social developments, but that the adjustment program
is now proceeding satisfactorily, and that the specific conditions for
the release of the second tranche have been substantially met.



- 19 -                   Attachment I
Page 3 of 15
1.   BACKGROUND
3.       The"Government of Benin and the Association held discussions in
Cotonou in November/December 1989, and in March/April 1990 to review
progress in implementing the structural adjustment program. The program
is being supported by a US$ 45 million equivalent Structural Adjustment
Credit from IDA (Cr. 2023-BEN) and by co-flnancing and coordinated
financing totalling US$ 121.8 mllion from other multilateral and
bilateral donors, including the IM. Amidst a severe economlc and
financial crisis, including an average 0.3 percent decline in real GDP
between 1985-87, the collapse of the banking system and the accumulation
of a significant volume of domestic and external arrears, the Government
formulated a program of economic and financial reforms with the
assistance of the Bank and the If. A National Adjustment Commission was
set up in Nay 1986 to flrst prepare and subsequently implement the
adjustment program; chaired by the Minister of Finance, and including the
Ministers of Planning, Justice, Industry and Energy, Rural Development,
and Labor and Social Affairs among its members, the work of this
Commission and of its technical sub-commissions allowed the Government to
implement a large number of corrective measures prior to Board approval
of the SAL.
4.       The program agreed to was designed to raise the real GDP growth
rate over the medium term to about 3 percent annually within a viable
macroeconomic framework, and encompassed the following measures to
achieve that objectives i) reform the current budget and general public
sector management; ii) reinforce the quality of investment planning; iii)
deepen and amplify the public enterprise sector reform already underway;
iv) restructure the banking system; and v) reform trade policy and
deregulate markets. This ambitious program reflected a fundamental
departure from the previous economic policy orientation involving state
domination of the economy's productive base and a highly regulated system
that discouraged private enterprise. It also constituted the
concretization of the Government's resolve to abandon piecemeal
corrective measures and to embrace a comprehensive program to address the
major economic and financial imbalances afflicting the economy. As such
it represented the culmination of years of a slow and often difficult
economic policy dialogue betwnen the Government and the Bank. The
progress made ln advancing this dialogue was also reflected in Benin's
first Policy Framework Paper which formed the basis for the IMF's first-
year SAP approved in June 1989.
S.       This memorandum summarizes the overall progress achieved under
the structural adjustment program and reviews the actions taken by the
Government to meet the specific conditions for the release of the second
tranche, as spelled out in para. 27 below.
II.   OVERALL PROGRESS UNDER THE STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
6.         Despite the Government's strong commitment to the economic
reform measures, the program very quickly encountered serious



- 20 -            Attachment I
- 20-                Paqe-4-of 15
difficultioe between June 19' and February 1990, in the form of large
revenue shortfalls leading to a renewed fliancial crisis and thus an
inability to implement key program components.  In short, the Government
was unable to strengthen resource mobilization and eliminate waste and
corruption. Instead, both domestic tax and customs revenues declined
thus undermining the financial basis of the entire program. Because the
customs administration was unable to amass the necessary import invoices
and customs declarations required for disbursements, only about half of
the quick disbursing external financing comnitments for 1989 could be
mobilized. As a consequence a significant level of additional domestic
and external arrears were incurred, the public investment program could
not b  executed as planned, and the banking system restructuring was
delayed. The continued absence of a functioning banking system
throughout 1989 and the reduction ia incomes of large segments of the
urban population due to arrears in salary payments to civil servants and
teachers adversely affected the performance of the secondary and tertiary
sectors; thus real GDP fell by 1.4 percent in 1989 as against the program
target of 2.5 percent growth.
7.       By the time the SAL was approved by the Board, the Government
had already incurred salary arrears from 1988 totalling three months
which rose to six months in December 1989. By then the situation had
reached crisls proportions when teachers who had been on strike for most
of the year were joined by civil servants, bringing the government
administrative apparatus to a virtual standstill; an entire school year
had been lost and another one was at risk. From initial demands for the
clearance of salary arrears, widespread popular discontent vith the one-
party regime of the People's Revolutionary Party of Benin then escalated.
The issue had become one of governance, and it was necessary to restore
the consent of the people before the crisis could be resolved. In
December 1989, the authorities decided that Marxism-Leninism and the
single-party control system were inconsistent with economic
liberalization, private sector promotion and efficiency in the conduct of
public affairs, all of which were required by the country's structural
adjustment program. Following this decision, donors made available
emergency financing to clear 1989 salary arrears. A National Conference
was called to determine the country's political future in February 1990.
It established a one-year transitional Government, and a new prime
minister and cabinet were appointed in March 1990. A new constitution is
being drafted and preparations are underway to hold multi-party elections
in early 1991.
8.       The population's response to these developments has been
enthusiastic, as they were fully ir.volved and represented in the National
Conference; by end-March 1990, schools had re-opened and civil servants
had returned to work, despite the fact that the three-month salary
arrears from 1988 remain unpaid. The new transitional government, headed
by Prime Minister Soglo, a former Bank Executive Director, is convinced
of the necessity of continuing the implementation of the adjustment
program, which proved to be a unifying theme during the National
Conference. He and his Government consider the Bank as a full partner in
this effort. Other donors also regard the Bank as the central



Attachment I
- 21 -             Page 5 of 15
coordinating agency for their support, which, based on the track record
of the new GoVernment, they have demonstrated a willingness to continue
and expand. Siace the installation of the new Government, the
macroeconomic and public finance situation has shown a marked
improvement, and significant progress has been achieved in fulfilling the
specific conditions for the releses of the second tranch.t the
substantial increase in revenues since Harch will be further buttressed
by additional technical assistance vhich donors have agreed to provide.
Four new commercial banks are now operational and negotiations are
underway wz n a major French bank to establish a branch in Cotonou. The
unquestioned legitimacy of the transitional Government and the widespread
popular support it enjoys should facilitate the implemntation of
otherwise politically difficult adjustment measures.
9.       Significant amounts of external fLnanci3l assistance will be
needed to permit the smooth implementation of key components of tho
adjustment program and to maintain the Government's credibilLty during
the critical transitional period; the Bank is playLng a central role in
mobilizing additional donor support to this end. In this connection.
other donors whose funds would normally be tied to the release of the
second tranche have provided urgently needed resources in anticipation of
imminent action on the Bank's part; thus at the Bank-sponsored informal
donors' meeting in April 1990, donors provided additional emergency
financial support in recognition of the efforts undertaken to date. At
the SPA meeting held in Paris last week, donors agreed to provide
financing for the structural adjustment program through 19903 an
essential element in the 1990 financLng package is IDA support from the
second tranche of SAL I and the first tranche of a second SAL.
Negotiations on the Second Policy Framework Paper and on the Df)'s
second-year SAP, and the pre-appraisal of the proposed SAL 11 are
scheduled for end-June 1990; some donors, and the French in particular,
are conditioning their further support on the successful conclusion of
these discussions.
Public Sector Reform
10.      Restoring the viability of public sector fLnances was recognized
to be the essential ingredient in re-establishing macroeconomic balance
and improving the allocation of resources: the program sought to
accomplish this objective by: (i) strengthening resource mobilization;
(ii) reducing and restructuring current expenditure and taking steps to
contain 1ts subsequent growth; and (iii) increasing expenditures on
materials and supplies especially for maintenance, agricultural extension
service, education, and health.
11.     Drawing on a 1985 IM@ report on the fiscal systems the Government
had put in place a number of measures aimed at improving resource
mobilization prior to Board approval of the SAL. In 1987 the main import
tariff (tale fiscale d'entree) was raised on a number of products and the
officially fixed bases used to tax some products were replaced with
c.i.f. values; an advance partial payment requirement was introduced for
business profit taxes. These measures were followed by the removal of



- 22 -            Attachment I
Paqe 6 of 15
quantitative restrictions and prohibitions on imports and their
replacement by import taxes in July 1988.   To improve tax
administration, a number of actions were taken in December 1988,
includingt installation of the first set o microcomputers to aid record
keeping; updating the valuation and assessment methods for domestic and
external taxes; and the introduction of a program of continuous in-
service tranining. In March 1989 the statistical tax on imports was
raised to 5 percent and a 3 percent downpayment on imports against profit
taxes was introduced. A Fund technical assistance mission in October
1988 produced a comprehensive review of tax policy and tax and customs
administration, which ultimately served as the basis for the fiscal
reforms under the Structural Adjustment Program. A key measure envisaged
thereunder concerns the transformation of the internal turnover tax into
a general expenditure tax applicable to both domestic goods and services
and to imports. The introduction of this tax, initially planned to
coincide with the 1990 budget, has, however, been postponed to 1991 due
to the longer preparatory period needed for such a fundamental
restructuring of the tax system and to the need to coordinate it with the
more thorough reform of the main revenue source, import taxes, now
planned for the second phase of the adjustment program (see below); both
the Bank and the IMP recognize that the original timetable for the
introduction of the general expenditure tax was overly ambitious in view
of the adainistrative requirements involved,
12.      Despite the Government's efforts to implement the measures aimed
at improving resource mobilization, revenue performance was, until Harch
1990, the most disappointing aspect of the structural adjustment program.
This was attributable to the decline in economic activity in the
secondary and tertiary sectors, the contraction of imports, the absence
of new commercial banks throughout 1989, and, as indicated above, to the
significant level of inefficiency and corruption which existed in the
customs administration; the disruption in the government administrative
machinery, particularly from December 1989 through February 1990 also
adversely affected revenue collection. Thus compared to the program
target of CFAF 45.8 billion, cash revenues totalled only CFPA 30.9
billion in 1989, implying a revenue/GDP ratio of 7.1 percent, as against
the projection of 9.2 percent. Following the resolution of the political
crisis earlier this year, the establishment of new commercial banks, and
civil servants' return to work, there has been an impressive pick-up in
revenues, which appears to be sustainable. Thus from only CFA? 1.7
bllion in January, April and Hay treasury revenues rose to CFA? 2.8 and
3.6 billion, respectively, the highest recorded since approval of the
SAL. The Government is thus in a position to pay salaries on a current
basis (as has been done since March) and is projected to generate a
current surplus by 1993. Donors have agreed to finance additional
technical assistance on an emergency basis to reinforce revenue
collections by restructuring the Ministry of Finance and strengthening
the customs admLnistration. The Government recognizes the critical
importance of a sustained increase in revenues for the success of the
adjustment program, and has also reiterated lts commitment to recoup for
the treasury the proceeds of illicit wealth acquired by dignitaries of



- 23 -             Attachment I
Page 7 of 15
the former regime through the work of the Coumlseion do Verification des
Biens which vill be supported by external technical assistance.
13.      Among the key means of achieving the SAP's objective of reducing
and restructuring current expenditures were the reforms designed in the
area of public emplovment and pal. Prior to the introduction of the SAP,
personnel expenditures had already been reduced to CIA? 42 billion in
1988 from CIA? 45 billion in 1987 as a result of the implementatLon of
the following m:asures: 1) use of the results of the 1986 civll service
census to eliminate payment irregularities and to reinforce the
application of retirement regulations; 2) ending the automatic
recruitment of all new graduates into the civil servLce; and 3) achieving
a 10 percent reduction in the wage bill by abolishing housing allowances
for civil servants and the military. The net reduction in the wage bill
of CFA? 3 billion was smaller than would otherwise have been th. case due
tc the regularization of the status of about 1200 employees whose wages
had to be adjusted upwards. Under the SAP the aim was to reduce the
civil service to about 41.000 employees by 1991, with expenditures of
around CrAF 37 billion, compared to 47.000 employees and personnel
expenditures of CPAF 45 billion in 1987. This would be accomplished
through the normal retirement of 2,000 civil servants who had attained 55
years of age or 30 years of service and through the departure. on a
voluntrary basis of another 4,000. Personnel expenditures, were reduced
by 10.7 percent from CFAF 42.0 billion in 1988 to CIAP 37.5 billion in
1989, due to the combined effect of normal retirements and other
departures, the departure of 751 employees under the Programe de Departs
Volontaires (PDV), reduction in military personnel expenditure.
suspension of household allowances, a 50 percent reduction in other
allowances, and a 50 percent reduction in the lncrease that would have
resulted from regularization of the status of some civil servants. The
wage bill is projected to decline further to CFA* 35.9 billion in 1990
due to the combined effect of normal retirements and assuming that an
additional 3000 departures under the PDV can be financed.
14.      In the area of public administration, the Government has since
1988 taken a number of actions with the ultimate objective of modernizing
and adapting the public administrative apparatus to its new role as an
efficient provider of core public services that support future private
sector-led growth and development. Thesc have includeds 1) using
computer records to prepare the profile of the civil service in terms of
size and distribution by ministries and other agencies, as well as
skills, grades, and wage levels; and 2) reviewing the basic personnel
management texts to identify provisions that need to be changed to make
the civil service structure lighter and easier to manage. In the next
phase of the SAP the following will be accomplished s 1) analysis of the
structure of the Administration and Ministries' assignments and
preparation of revised organigrame where necessary; and 2) formulation of
a new staffing plan by size, functions and skills, accompanied by
proposals for in-depth reform. Given the unsatisfactory nature of the
study of these issues that was completed by exteral consultants in 1989,
and the complexity of such an operation, the more In-depth analysis
required is now being initiated.



24             Attachment I
Paae 8 of 15
15.      To improve recurrent cost funding, and to complement the reform.
already being introduced to this effect in the area of public
infrastructure maintenance and services under other IDA-financed projects
in Benin, the SAP included measures relating to utilities and the social
sectors. Prior to approval of the SAL. utility consumption by civil
servants, previously paid for from the budget, was transferred to the
recipients and financed from fixed monetary allowances included in their
salaries. To finance health and education sector non-salary recurrent
expenditures, a Social Fund was set up in the context of the IDA-assisted
Health Services Development Project; donor contributions were to be
channelled through the Fund to support these sectors. As a consequence
of the public finance difficulties and administrative disruptions in
1989, however, the effectiveness of this project and thus of
disbursements from the Social Fund were delayed; the year-long closure of
educational establishments in 1989 would, in any case, have made it
impossible to finance the education sector expenditures envisaged. Since
the re-opening of schools and civil servants, return to work in March,
disbursements from the Social Fund have accelerated and now total CFA?
0.5 billion. As a means of improving non-salary recurrent expenditure
allocations for the health and education sectors, budgetary requirements
will continue to be prepared on the basis of detailed work programs that
explicitly show the implied expenditures for material and supplies, as
was begun in 1989.
16.      Significant progress was made in reforming investment
programmina prior to the adoption of the SAP. The Government has
attempted to build on this foundation by keeping the general framework
and the individual projects consistent with the objectives of the
adjustment program. Given the overall macroeconomic and public finance
situation in 1989, however, the 1989 portion of the three-year rolling
public investment program agreed with the Bank in the context of the SAP
could not be executed as planned. With insufficient revenues to finance
current expenditures, Government counterpart funding could not be
obtained, while the accumulatLon of arrears to a number of multilateral
institutions resulted in a freeze on disbursements to important
development projects, and the deposit3 of public enterprises and local
government agencies frozen in the banking system could not be made
available to finance their investment expenditures. Thus compared to the
program target of CIA? 48.9 billion, the 1989 investment program totalled
only CPA? 36.3 billion, implying a public investment/GDP ratio of 6.8
percent as against 7.7 percent forseen under the SAP. The review of the
1990 public investment program was satisfactorily completed with the
Bank, but indicates the need for further improvements in the programming
process.
17.      Concerning public'enterprise reform, significant progress had
been achieved in improving the institutional framework, liberalizing
pricing decisions, and rationalizing the sector prior to the adoption of
the SAP, in the context of the IDA-financed Public Enterprise
Rehabilitation Project. The SAP sought tO pursue the objectives of
reducing the sector's financial losses tnd increasing its contribution to



Attac&nent I
- 2S -         Page 9 ort
growth through an appropriate minture of divestiture and restructuring
efforts. based on the overall portfolio review completed in July 1988.
Two enterprises were identified for liquid&tion. seven for privatization,
and ten for in-depth diagnostic studies.  In line with the action plan
agreed to undeg the SAP, the dec6eeo for the liquidation of l'Office
Beninois d'ELploitation des Produite de l'Elevago at de Peche (OBEPEP)
and l'Office Beninois d'Informatiquo (OBI) were issued on January 9, 1989
and January 25, 1990, respectively. However, the Government has
presented a convincing case for temporarily retaining the slaughterhouse
(the only one in existence in Cotonou), which was previously part of the
various OBEPEP holdings, until an appropriate solution to its ownership
and management in the long-term io found; a study to form the basis for
this determination is now being initiated. Bids for the seven
privatizations have all been issued, on November 24, 1989 for the Societe
Beninoise de Haterlaux de Construction (SOBEMAC) and on January 2, 1990
for the six provincial transport companies.  The only offer received so
far for SOBEMAC has been found to be unacceptable, and the Government
will re-issue bids to privatize this enterprise in its clearly distinct
parts, which could result in more attractive offers. As of end-Hay 1990,
five offers had been received for the transport companies, and the
Government is now in the process of evaluating them.
18.      Of the 10 diagnostic studies planned, 8 have been completed and
the Government has begun the process of implementing the recommended
solutions; the tranche release condition is therefore deemed to have been
substantially met. The privatization of one of these enterprises,
Manufacture des Cigarettes et des Allumettes (MANUCIA) was completed on
Harch 5, 1990 with the signature of a contract with Rothmans
International Tobacco (UK) for the sum of CPAF 1.7 billion. The
privatizations and other solutions recommended for the remaining
enterprises will be pursued in the next phase of the adjustment program.
The diagnostic study for SITUX (textiles) will not be completed before
end-1990 as the enterprise only began operating with Chinese assistance
in late 1989 and the financial data necessary for the study were
therefore not yet available. The diagnostic study of the Societe
Sucriere de Save (SSS), which is jointly-owned by Benin and Nigeria, has
been delayed for a number of reasons, including some degree of reluctance
on the former Government's part.  The latter, with the concurrence of the
Nigerians, had proposed awarding a lease-management contract to the
company that had been running the SSS installations since 1988. The
Bank, however, expressed strong reservations about this contract and has
maintained that a full diagnostic study remains necessary. The new
Government has made a decision to not negotiate this contract and to
terminate the presence of the company in question at the SSS, and, with
Bank-financed technical assistance, has recently completed a study of
existing conditions there, with a view to designing an interim
maintenance plan until a longer-term solution is put in place. It has,
in addition, also submitted to the Bank satisfactory terms of reference
for the full diagnostic study uhich will be completed in the course of
1990. The Government ls fully conmitted to finding an efficient solution
to the problems of this important enterprise and has informed its
Nigerian partners accordingly. The Government plans the furthsr



- 26 -         Attachnent I
Racre 10 of 15
divestiture, through privatizations or liquidations, of an additional ten
enterprise$ by *nd-1990.
Banking System Reform
19.      The virtual collapoe of the Beninese banking system in late 1987
was a critical factor in the Government's decision to embrace a
comprehensive adjustment programs a nuaber of corrective measures which
it had implemented before thon were patently incapable of providing a
solution to the fundamental problems afflictlng the state-owned banks,
including the large share of non-porforming loans in their balance sheets
and their illiquidLty. By end-1987 the economy's rediscount facility at
the Central Bank had been exhausted and the commercial bank was unable to
honor clients' requests for wLthdrawals or ezternal transfers, and
temporary facilities outside the normal ceiling had to be granted twice
(in January and August 1988). With the assLstance of the Bank and the
IM?, the following program of actions was designed with a view to
achieving the longer-term viability of the banking system: 1) liquidation
of the Caisse Nationale de Credit Agricole (CNCA), already underway, and
the reorganization of the rural credit network; 2) the creation of a new
commercial bank with majority share held by a foreign private banking
entity; 3) the liquidation of the Banque Comerciale du Benin (BCB) and
the Banque Beninoise pour le Developpement (BBD); 4) reschedulLng of the
banks' debts to the BCEAO vith the Government on terms compatible with
the public finance situation: and 6) general reinforcement of the
supervisory and regulatory framework of the banking system.
20.      The liouidation of the CNCA has proceeded as planned; the
provisional closing balance sheet at end-December 1989 suggests that the
Government would need to make up for a probable insufficiency of assets
totalling CPAP 1.8 billion. The completion of the liquidation is now
only dependent on how quickly a solution to the problem of an appropriate
structure for theoioLnt recovery of the defunct banks' assets can be
agreed upon. This issue is expected to be resolved by end-September 1990
when arrangements for the establishment of the proposed Cellule de
Recouvrement would have been finalized. The reornanization of the rural
credit network is now underway and ls being assisted by the IDA-financed
aural Savings and Loan Rehabiltation project approved by the Board in
January 1990. The project provides fort (i) the institutional reform and
restructuring of the existing saving and loan cooperatives: (ii)
restoration of cooperative members' savings and equity; (iii)
liberalization of interest rate polLcies on savings and loans; (iv)
training of cooperative administrators and staff: and (v) establishment
of an accounting and financial control system. Its implementation will
assist in transforming the rural credLt network lnto a better managed,
more efficient, and financially viable system run lndependently of
government administrative structures.
21.      After a long search for one or more private partners to
participate In the establishment of new comercial banks, four banks are
now operational and have collected a sizeable amount of liquid deposlts;



27 -AttachTmnt I
Page 11 of 15
although they &ppear to be treading cautiously in the area of credit for
the time-being, they are nonetheless already providing essential banking
service@o The modalities for the incentives necessary to place these new
banks in tho position to expand credit will be worked out over the next
few months. The Government remains convinced that the establishment of a
bank of intenuational stature such as the Banque Nationale de Paris (BNP)
would still be desirable. especially to assure adequate financing of
Benin9s export trade.  Although it has expressed serious reservations
about a Benin operation, the BNP is negotiating to open a branch in
Cotonou if it can obtain the support of the IFC and the Caisse Centrale
de la Cooperation Economique (CCCI). The existence of the new banks
provides the necessary conditions for accelerating the process of
liguidating the BCB and the BBD, and the L.W Government is committed to
doing so, while ensuring that an appropriate mechanism is established to
continue the recovery of their outstanding bad debt; as noted in para. 19
above, the latter issue is expected to be resolved over the next few
months. Measures will also be taken to ensure that the new deposits
collected by these banks in 1989 remain liquid in the process of settling
their liabilities.
22.      Concerning the reimbursement of depositors (both the private
sector and public enterprises) whose accounts were frozen in the banking
system9 the progress achieved was significantly less than expected, due
to the public finance difficulties, the shortfall in external assistance,
and delays in establishing the reimbursement fund. Thus of the CFA? 13.5
billion programmed to be reimbursed in 1989, only CPA? 419 million was
actually effected; the pace of reimbursement has hpwever accelerated with
a total of CPA? 1.9 billion having been paid out jiiJanuary-May 1990.
The first round of reimbursements (a total of CFAP 2.2 billion which is
already available) is expected to be completed by end-June 1990; in all,
a total of CFAP 10 billion is planned for the reimbursement of depositors
in 1990. Donors would therefore need to make available resources
significantly in excess of the CFA? 6.0 bllion now planned under the
second round in order to attain this objectLve and to thereby facilitate
an increase in economic activity, the implementation of important
development projects, as well as the rehabilitation of the Caisse
Nationale d'Epargne (CNE) and the Centre des Cheques Postaux (CCP) which
are currently experiencing serious difficulties.
23.      Agreement had been reached prior to Board approval of the SAL on
the consolidation of CPA? 37 billion in Government obligations to the
BCEA0 and on a timetable for the payment of the remainder; subsequently,
in September 1989, agreement was also reached on the consolidation of
another CPAF 4.4 billion in favor of the BBD. Of the CPA? 14.2 (both
interest and principal) scheduled to be paid in 1989, only CPA? 5.5
billion was actually paid, mada possible by the use of IN? SAF resources
of CFA? 2.7 billion and assistance from the CCCZ. In view of the large
financing gap for 1990, discussions have been initiated with the BCEAO
with a view to the further consolidation and rescheduling of its
remaining claims on the Government (CPA? 9.5 billion due on behalf of the
BCB alone), on terms at least as favorable as those obt4ined earlier, as
part of the coordinated donor assistance effort.



28 -         Attachmient I
-Pave 12 of 15
24.      In the area of reinforci_n evisor  and regu1a!or
frammeok of the ban1.in  s     e the creeation of the supra-national
Commission de Supervision Bancaire, under the ch imenship of the
Governor of the BCEAO, has been a major pooitive developmnt.  Thin
Conmission will have the power to enforco decisions arrived at in the
course of bank supervision, including banh closures; the pseioue
situation where such recomendations could be effectively ignored by
national governments will thus no longer obtain.
Trade Policy Reform and Deregulation
25.      Although the Second State Plan had declared the Government's
intention to have the private sector play a greater role in the economy,
concrete action to encourage this had, before the adoption of the SAP,
been of a limited nature, and includeds (i) abolition of the state
monopoly on the import of most consumer goodsg (ii) initiation of pricing
policy reform by shortening the list of goods for which prices are set
administratively and easing the procedures for ex-post control of others;
(iii) permitting private agents to operate in food crops; and (iv)
abolition of quantitative restrictions and prohibitions on imports of
selected goods produced locally. The SAP sought to go beyond these
measures and to give real impetus to the small and medium enterprise
sector through a series of trade policy reform and deregulation measures.
26.      In the area of trade policy reform, the Government had, in July
1988, already removed quantitative restrictions and prohibitions on all
imports and replaced them with tariffs. The second stage of the reform
was to involve the evaluation of the framework of industrial tariff
protection and import tazation and to devise measures to rationalize the
structure of industrial incentives in a manner consistent with the
program's revenue objectives. However, the major shortcomings of the
study produced by outside consultants on this issue have delayed the
expected progress in this area; the study's lack of operational content
and of country specificity, in addition to the inadequate treatment of
the issue of simplification and rationalization of the structure of
tariff rates, provide an insufficient basis for the complex task of
fundamentally reforming Benin's tariff and industrial protection systema.
The Government remains comitted to the needed reforms and shares the
view of the Bank and the IMF that a more thorough analysis of the issues
is required. To this end a new study will be completed by end-September
1990, and an action plan agreed upon by end-November 1990, so that the
tariff reform can coincide wlth the 1990 budget. In view of these
efforts, and of the expected fulfillment of the condition by end-1990, we
propose that condition 4, item (a) be waived to permit the release of the
second tranche.
27.      The liberalization of food crop marketins and of trade in
secondary cash crops put into effect in December 1988 was deeigned to
promote the development of food crops and to stimulate the growth of



- 29 -             Attachnent I
Paae 13 of 15
secondary cash crops by allowing greater private Sector involvement in
these areas..- As a means of Antroducing greater     ibLilty into the
business enviroment and facilitatina the.functinint of markets, the
Government had, prior to approval of the SAL, abolished prLce controls
for all goods except a limited number of essential coodities (7 as
against 25 previously). The Government has since then made significant
progress in thls area. Thus the legislation concerning business
registration, licensing and reporting requirements, and the hiring and
firing of labor have all been revised and the relevant texts vere adopted
by the Haut Conseil de la Republique on Hay 7 and 8, 1990g these will
have the effect of easing the prewLoucly cuabersome arrangemeats and
allow ths greater flexibilitLy in labor management necessary to encourage
lncreased private sector involvement in the economy. The revosed
Investment Code, adopted oan April 30 1990, is scheduled to go into effect
by end-June 1990 and is neutral as between public and private enterprises
a* well as regards size and factors of production; its prlvileges are
designed to decrease over time and their application to be more
transparent. The comblned effect of these reform will be to create an
envLronment more conducive to domestic and foreign private investments
which can subsequently be built upon.
1II    SUMMARY OF STATUS OF TRANCEZ RELEASE CONDITIONS
28.      The specific conditions for the release of the second tranche
and tLeir status are summariLed below.
0 Condition 1: Progress as scheduled in the implementation of the
Borrowers's civil service reduction program for calendar year 1989.
Fully met. (para. 12)
Condition 2s Progress as scheduled in the implementation of the
Borrower's parastata-l restructuring program, adopted in December 1988.
Substantially met. (paras. 16-17)
Condition 3: Abolition of import licenses for goods imported
from the Franc zone, the European Community and the ACP countries. Fully
met. (para. 26)
Condition 4: Agreement between the Borrower and the Association
onu Item (a) an action plan to implement reforms in the Borrower"s import
taxation and industrial protection systems; will be delayed, and waiver
proposed, in view of the unsatisfactory nature of the consultants' study
on tarlff reform and industrial protection expected to provide the basis
for the action plan; at the Government's and the Bank's request, the
study will be redone by end-September 1990 and an actLon plan agreed upon
by end-November 1990 (para. 25)1 Item (b) an action plan to replace the
Borrower's domestic turnover tax with a general expendLture tax; Fully
met (para. 10); and Item (c) an action plan for the adoption of the new
Investment Code of the Borrower, providing for digreGssive prlvileges,
applicable to public and private enterprises alike. Full met. (para. 26)



Attachment I
-30-             Page 14 of 15
Condition 5: Enhancing of the private investment climate in
People's Republic of Benin byt Item (a) adoption of simplified business
registration, permits and reporting procedures (para. 26); Fully met; and
Item (b) amendment of labor legislation to simplify hiring and
termination of employment; Fulls met. (para. 26)
IV.    Release of the Second Tranche
29.      The former Government of the People's Republic of Benin
initiated a fundamental reorientation of its economic policy and embraced
a comprehensive adjustment program when it recognized that the country's
economic and financial imbalances could not be addressed through
piecemeal reform measures and that it was necessary to significantly
reduce the public sector's role in the economy. That Government has now
been succeeded by a transitional administration more strongly committed
to continuing the adjustment process and putting Benin on the path to
both economic and political liberalization. The structural adjustment
program has proved to be a unifying element in Benin's peaceful
transition from a one-party Marxist-Leninist regime to a multi-party
democracy, and the future elected Government is likely to also embrace
it.
30.      The Beninese economy, however, remains in fundamental
disequilibrium and will require a sustained effort to stabilize public
finances, restructure the banking system, and deregulate the economy in
order to remove disincentives to private sector investment: ln this
connection, Benin will continue to require significant levels of external
assistance. The public finance situation, recognized to be fragile when
the SAL was approved, deteriorated further in the face of the economic
downturn, significant revenue shortfalls and the administrative collapse
which took place in the latter part of 1989.  since the installation of
the interim administration, however, there has been a substantial
improvement in revenue performance and in the overall macroeconomic
situation. The present Government views the Bank as its major partner in
designing an appropriate strategy to deepen the reform process and has
begun the task of preparing the follow-up adjustment operation required
to accomplish this objective. Given the extremely difficult
circumstances under which it assumed power. the new Government has made
considerable progress in implementing the adjustment program and in
meeting the conditions for release of the second tranche. Release of the
second tranche would constitute evidence of the lank's wlIlingness to
assist this Government in relaunching the structural adjustment program
by mobilizing available financing to implement key program components,
and would also permit it to maintain its credibility in the critical
transitional period.
31.      On June 22, 1989, the Fund Board approved lenin's SAP program,
and the first tranche, equivalent to 20 percent of quota (SD& 6.28
million), was released, Despite protracted political and social
difficulties in 1989, IMP staff consider that the Beninese authorities



Attachment I
-31 -           Page 15 of lS
have made commendable progress in implementing most of the structural
reforms agreed to in the context of the SA? program. Revenue performance
since March 1990 has improved signicantly, and establishes a good basis
for the negotiation of the second-year program which will release the
second tranche, equivalent to 30 percent of quota (SDR 9.39 million);
these discussions will take place beginning end-June 1990.
V.   Recommendation
32.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the waiver of
condition 4(a). Upon such approval, the Association will advise the
Government of Benin that the second tranche of US$ 22.5 million equivalent
of the Structural Adjustment Credit is available for disbursement.
Barber B. Conable



- 33 -                   Attachment II
Paqe 1 of 8
IS-Ap    W             Sect. a1"    I Flrt Structural Adjutmont Progf",
Polley Ame          I laus/Obemetivee              Reefrs Actlons         I        Reform Actions
I  I                    I_______________  Already Take  I       To Be Takeo
1. Y"lblle Fl1m
*.    u              '          of  fitS;Incrooo In the .ate                -   ree an t o   &lo  pla
=1111atle     ebII  I aotte           scal dlentree;               for traneforat en   the
Moblll**lz    toblolse et   nue _                                                          *11tr   d'stfann@teS^"S
Sutae  Reourc           - Revereal ft. mercurial       IC : h1"W   i afe aetairee
area"                   to e.t.f baes for tlng,    chiffre d'efftairel soo
s     lmporte; inceeaW
mercurial base for ethers;
-Institution ef reuiremnt        R evi   and updote of Custeo
to pay advance Ietallments    ad d       Ise to  ad n
en domestie buetnse taxes In  vl eassessmet en
theo a ihi  thy are    Vse sii             o e  prcedue
-0O (     I)  sh o nf oect   - Agr.MMnt so so gotten plea
toaie   I  relation wiath    foer application of reoom end-
ldustri   Ioetn study)   atine of the iwort taxation
(O btobe 1    I);               ud; s
-reperation and adotion of
a progras of in-serice
training for Customs  Oceic
Tax Dogartoenta cad freasury
Revenue Service
b. Public Employment Civil Service Rteorm    - Conduct of census of elvil
cad Pay                                   service (19) I cad urn of
data as new b3e for budgeting
personnel oxponditum  (1900);
- Offitcil en  to autucile
recrultmet of all graduates;
MOSU)'nlonof wage increa-
te following proeotions and
r reclassifleation (1900);
- Oncrease In longth of tim
betee  vlstte for students
abroad free 2 y"ers to 
- Reducio  b IM  of beelc
slary of pub   service
officials on study leave;
-Abelitiol of housing ellow-
try  squival et to 101 of
beasi salary; (March 19O);
-Review of precet personne    - Jlesentati  of civil
manageMet regulations;         service woluntary searetloi
(Ocobr 1 I)               pregrem  me
- Finalization of list of API  - Nodofinitios of Functlones
as of 12/81/07 with their      and pecitiboe, and preperattn
distribution by salary and     of  e funtlon-roloatd grades
rade  as benchemark for pore-  and remneation s"cl (1000-
oel reduction  rorePM; and   90)
- Introduction of aivil
earvico persowle reduction
progeam;
e.   e-ag           Fuiw    N               -Adoption af targets for all-
Reurrent  _ipendit. Resurrt Coa tioen  o   on-loae recurrt
Ce   in e ducatin and heaIth
for 19W  (Octobse 19W)
d. Budge Ixocuie                    iture    Prpa      on nsd adopoto of
Monitor-ing a"dCnr    aeyb   e  a yte  for  oniltoring bud-
Conrl           ducin Ageprori y        got *eoctiom with old  act
ispecittereS            for eopeNditu   controetl
of the recendatIene grof
3ovrnstetsrn ero_ so
deb     study__                    _  _ _ _  _ _  _  _ _  _ _
O N                                              n
me ~     ~         ~        ~         d SeodTaoe



- 34 -                   Attachment II
Pacre 2 of 8
Poo 1ey Am                                                Ac4^eas                 notoif Actions
Pol.cy    Area            en/bJscti~~     I   _________________ lToy Ta l "       T     Take
RI=,lS;. ,n.estm_n
a. Eaut              Explicitly Prorm        - Intitutloa  of warly corr-
re"o-ami"   Transfor. to ParapubIlc ultation with 3ankby oece.b.r
Psagamen    Setor                     o eah poor so theo toI t
AS yeeros irvestment Program
-Adoption of Wmyae of' program
a     ptfolio Inve" stnoa In
perapublc aectorCOctebor 80).
b. Multi-yer        Medium-ters Program      - Adoptlo, of  -yewr rlling
Program                                  investmt progea  for 1WS-
a. I.prov.~         Pollew-up of Project   - Roinferoe t of the proje t
Manitoring       ezecution                 eulawat;l               
. PeoJeet   Pr  J   W1lW         ^1ofwayt 4    190    1 
d. Project           Projec t uality         -Adoption of quantitative
e1ection                                 crerli  froe  screeming of
inedutrial and ccamrci l,
aegiulturl and infr atrue-
tural projects. end least cost
rie1 ria to escial ector
proJet
RU1. Publle Enterprise
Reform
a. Enterprise          or e                  -Promulgation of a ow team-
Autonomy         reltion                 wofk  w       in  government-
b. Dlvetltur. and Rationalizing the als  Oisalutlon/l qudt. of 12
Reabbilltation   of te sectr                          C3trpr s C eralees),
I3TRASO (treat le
hUeCUhueoI        p  l
ancos, SOIMAS (sool
books       *I TA   (JIr l ), B et
- PvtIzatIto   of o   eterp.s
SAE(vehcleo"/u nt)*
AU (iorted consume
), U ECI (ciames
-Establishment of a Itablesu
do horde with key Indicators
to moitor pubic enterprise
lwIltleoi
- Prepration and aoptlon of
procdures to hte followed for
ente  risj~rvstiaatsea
-   nstiin   oa Syt  for
roviwing all  r.oaals for
erztl~~0          or  _ple
the crest ion J  now
enterprisses;pbi
. Rlnvlgoratio   Rtelsfrre_met of            - ltevlew of the sector and      L14idatlion and closure of
of Residual      objocveslclarificat- ian  prpratlo  of ner flit   2 sentrprises, solicitation of
Portfollo       1io  of  oee             of enterpriace to he privet-   bldo for pcivatiaing 7 and
i1e  wholly or partilly  to   c latin    of diagnostic
_  lesed  ut ortobe liquid- re e1m of 10 *O
ated, and another list of
enterprise. to be rehablIft-
___________________________ated
-" #"sNW Trasehe.



- 35 -                  Attachmint II
Page 3 of 8
Policy Area        I  Iasuee/Objectives   I          Reform Actieos                  Ro Trk e
C. O^:tNO SVSTEII
t.  Sector           Roeorm of Specislty      - Dissolutlon of CNCA
Reorgeniastion   Banking                  (May 1966)
-Launch ing of agri cultural
redWit study (May i966)
- Agree t on a robabiltal,-
ion progra for th CRCAM,
CLCAV,on th- obasi of agrl-
cultural credit study, in 
*sociation with a reetruct.
:'red bank;
tt.  Portfolio       Restoration of Sector   - Roeconstitution of Credit      - Implementation of
Restructuring   Vlability                Cominttae with represt-         Restructuring Plan (i919-91)
ation from the BCAP (1I66),
- Complotion of SC'e Port-
folio audit, and appraisal of
ts tixed ease" (July 19)
- Conclusion of S'so Port-
olo audilt (October IOU)
Agremnt with BCEAO oe
rscheduling of COA's and
950's dsbt on conceeional
2SS.  Prlvatizotion  Introduction of Private - Prelininary contact with
Capitol and Manogement  prospective partner,
(July 1916)
_ Preparation end adoption of
a progrm to collet recovr-
able privet soector ovordue
debt to ONCA BCB, and MB
(October 1986)l
IV.  Regulatory       ank Inspection and      - Enlar  m.t of the
Frameork        Cont ol                   Itonal Credit ComitteI
with the Inclusion of a
French reprosentative
*s, Second Trnnch*.



- 36 -                  Attachment II
Pa-g-e-T4 Of7
I   Pollct Area    |   Isue/Ob                       Roform Actions                   Reform Actton_         I
Policy Area          Isauea/Obj.ctiv.   I            Already Taken                    To Be Takon
C. TRADE POLICY REFORM
AND DEREGULATION
I. EICort Trade       Promotion                 - Liberalization of trading of
Ll  n IIaStlo       of Exports               food crope Including for
export.
t.  Import
Protection
a. Quntitati,    as on Good. Produced   - Eliinoation of  R8 and
reatrictlons,   by Now State Enter-       their replacement by Import
Monopolies       prieo                    taxes (July 1960)
Iport Licensing         -Formulation of proposali  for  - Adoptlon of the proposals
replacing licenaea with ox-       on removal of import
roat dec1 rationa for Franc    lcensee aee
o0n, EC and ACP countries;
b. Tariff.           High Oisperolon of       -Launching of study of Indus-  - Agrement on an eatlon plan
Tariff:  Complox         trial protectlon (in relation  for application of reco_md-
Protction Schoe          with Import taxaton study)    atlona of industriol protect-
Ion study *ee
c. Investment        Eliminating Public                                        - Agrof nnt  I an action plan
Incentivos       Sector Sias  Making                                       fr revision of Investnt
Regles* Fa;er and                                        Code ellminatinb  the current
Size Neutral                                             public eector bi. and aking
regime neutral *ith respect
to factors, and s1iz of enter-
prise"; sec
aIa. Legal and                                                                    - Declaration on opening u  of
Rag.I atory                                                                msctors In *hich Government
Framework                                                                   had abeolute monopoly (Jun.
a. Roui0tration/    Reduction of Red Tp.                                      -R.vl ion & adoption of *I-pl-
LTcensing                                                                 lfied businase reg Itratlon/
licensing procedures *so
b. Labor Practices  Liberalization of                                         - Revision of the 'Lol 18-002
Decislon-Making                                          concerning the hiring and
laying-off of labor; ose
- Re9ular publication of the
IV. Pricing Policy    Deregulation of            - Liberalization of pricing
Markets                  for a11 goods except those on
the liot of essential coemodi-
ties (December 196s)
V.  Domeo tic          Liberasization of
Trade              Marketing                - Liberallstion of the
trading c  all export crops
except cotton (Docemer 1966)
ase Second Tranche.



37                  Attachment II
Page 5 of 8
Policy Areo         I sosRe/Objrctveti                                     I        Reform Actions
I_____I_   _      I__  iA lreayA s    r.eI                To Be Taken
O. AORICULTURE
I. Sctor Strategy   Oevelopms_t of long-    - Lunching of study on long-
term goalo and approach term development of the setor
U1. support 3crvIce
a. Institutional     Str.n th.nin  reserch  -Adoption of nmm accounting
a eaxenalon services   and financial proceAdreo In
CARDER* sopgu (to be follow.
ed by          O'DE sZo  and
b. Soed Farm         Rationallzing So         Atecoro)                       - Agreemnt on main actlons
Form policy                                             and a eslendar of execution
a glob91al seed farms
strategy             *
Its. Cotton Sector
a. clining          Separatlon of extension - Adeinlitrativo transfer of
erwicee from cei_re-  ownership of ginnerlee to
1i1 activity            SONAPRA
- Legal transfer of ownership
o  ginnerleo to SONAPtA
b.  Input Subsidies Efficioney pricing of   - Elimination of fertiliser
tInputs                   bsidies In 197/ga and
inputs           ~~of insecticide ilagsg
a. Producer         Maintenance of producer -Increase of producerr rice
Prices          Incentives/income        progressively from C; Sc
^$Pe ro IU In  9/s9
- Adoption of a Producer
pricing system linked to
world mrket trend 
d. Marketing        Optlilming export                                       - 1OW6elishms_ t of market
receipte                                                infermaloto  service to
support oontra3ting with
ga" *e"nX S 
IV. Food Crops
Food Security   Creation of Information                                 - Cretlon of a rapid alert
aystm to del with                                       eyotem for monitor in   uply
transitory food                                         veristios  as ONC'o functlon
security problem                                        and redeflitilon of deentral-
ized storae" (village level)
V. Livestock
a. Subectoral        Improvement of                                          - Eualnalton of the current
Strategy          reeourco allocetion                                      sit* tion of State Forms and
the formulation and adoption
of a new policy on subecnor
so. Secos  Trenche.
S Conditions In a sector project.



- 38 -               Attachnent II
Page 6 of 8
Pollcy Arsa         I Zesu/Objectives               Rfeorm Actlons                  Reform Actions
AIIoredy Take                  To lb Taken
E. TRANPORT
I. Road Maintenance  Improved road             -Reploassnt of h-A-t   trans-  - Inltlatlon of coverage fr:
mainteeeneo             fer eO Itozi Road i *U  lighor  Road Fund 100l   routine
nen  e ,. tao Randr     g       aintenance, and Wt3 and 10l
of polodlc "Intonene  of
.rh*d   vovd roods
roepectivery;  S
-Limitation of me. of Road
Fund for *ogos to road i Int
ance temo"rary labor and to
inceontivee for regular road
mintefenac staff (from
Jtanury los) S
II. Pricing           Liberalizatlon of                                       -Reviwe  of role and perform
Trucking                                                ce of the National Centre of
Freight Bureaux, end redi;--
Ion of Ito coordination fuiw
tion S
Efficiency Pricing                                      - Reinforement of coat
of Port Servicee                                        accounting In PAC;  S
II2.  sector          Iproevd Financial                                       - Adoption of PAC'o revise
Managsnt/        c Management/Expenditore                                tariff structure  S
Policyent        controln
-Meantenance of dabt ouity
ratloo at or below 55/6 for
PAC and 60/40 for 8EIUP
(19o9-91); S
- Roduction of PAC & OEMAP    - Reduction of PAC staff by _
staff by 53 per yer since      per yer (199-91); S
iN'
- Reduction of O0EMAP staff
by 53 per year (1969-91)t 5
Rationalizing Public    - Conduct of study of optlons
Sector Rol/Increaing  in maritime sub-osctor
Private Sector Role    (Co=N;
-, Impleometation of maritime
ub-sector study recomsndat-
long
- Full libera lsation of
frelght forwarding and tran-
sIt
ass Second Trancho.
S Conditions In a soetor project.



- 39 -            Attachnnt II
Page 7 of 8
Poliey Area            eauoo/Objective     I  ojeform Actions                       Reform Actio
________________                 Alrea- dA   rak.       I       To lo Taken
UTIUTIE
Z.  inotltutional    tlpreood Managerial    -japlmsntat. of provlolono    - Adption of the contrat
Accountabiltiy          o- the Cahior de Chores of    dlotr prise and the OPT's
"aE (March IOU);Sate
,Adoption of the contret
d'entreprise  Sea  to 1N?
It. Pricing           Etfficiey Piloing of   - Istroduction of the third    -Reviseio  of waor  eletriel-
wte r, Electrlclty and  tranche of SEo s nem  tariff   tw & telone tariffs la line
Tol o'mmlenation        etrutureo (MaccA 1953)$         with financial covonanta to
Services                                                contrate d'oetreprele  (1909-
1531) s
SII. Sector           Improved Financial       - Definition of procedures
MUnogm_t/       Monagement/Expenditure  for tranofering electricity,
Policy          Control                  water and tele nopb
esubserlptiono 1 h _ Into
name o  be _lene icleol
-Transfer of utility connet-  - Valtenance of StE and OPT
lone (olectriitY and water),  recelvabla  below 4 months
and telophone sub oriptions    (s91) S
In home of officiele Into
names of b*eofleairial
Institutional        Attraction of Foreigan   - Model explorotlon            - Update of the model *plo-
Capital For Oil Fiold  contract develop   I n lo"       retlee contract to take
Exploration             and promotlons hed In           account of reet indutry
London, Houston                da velopmste
- Undertking of promotlon
campelgnu
Second Tranche.
Conditions In a sector projoet.



- 40 -              Attachnent II
Page 8 of 8
Policy Arg            Iosoo/Objoctlv.a              Rotors Actions         |        Rform Actions
~~~~~~~I                                    I        Alr"dy TakenI                   To So Takeon
M. CPULTONNME
- Estabilish._nt of humn       - Pursult of rovlo of pei
I.  Sector Strategy   Effoetivo Ro pons        resource  working groups        tles and formulation of SA
to DoevelopmentR                                        strategy and policy actlon
- fomlio of perorit.  stnd     plan for Education & Cultu
fon ulotlon of *ebor *trnt-
*9cyp laon plan for
H6lth @soctor
1.  institutlonal    Coordination end          -Inelusion of Hman Rensource.
wsmo nt tlon of         Sub-cotto  In Adjusetent
Pollcy                  Co""lolon'
Il. Financing         Protect Priority                                        o4etorminatlon of togoets
Sectoro                                                 n.-salary current oupondi
and  Inimm *haro of prima
educetion and primary heal
care
IV. Efficiney         Internal Savings                                         - Formlotion and adoption
a plon for increasolng eve
pu l-toech-r ratio In I1
*nCry education
- Development and adoption
a plan  for redistributing
per onnel betwen centre a
periphery, and between
dw nistration and helth
ervice delivery
- Dovelopmnt and odpion
a progrm to lmprovo hoapi
adinlaltration and drug
distribution system
Costs of hi iher educat-                                - Dovolopment and adoption
and Improved link with                                  a prrom to restrucuur
Labor market/Economy's                                   chkolarships downaeds and
sneeds                                                  from oee   r levnce diecipl
I. Sector Strategy      Devolopmet of                                           - Pview  of the current at
soctoral pollcy                                        tegy and proparation of po
Cle on environment prote
ion
- Adoption of tho policioe
eos Second Trancho.
S Conditions In a sctor project.



- 41 -                    Attachment III
26 Fab 1992                                                      MnIN: PC - FIRST STEIURVL 6A5W6rir C OIT
.............................--. EMIN: AN ElOIC IN          ...............................
--.-----  nl.t ---.-.-tl.---------.t...-ProjZtlasan...........
15    196   1w        1958       1"95   1990         1991   1992   19;   199     195
Anal Rates of Gwt  M)
.........................
0P at ap                              7.5X   2.2X  -1.5X    3*.0       -2.0X   4.0%        3.0X   3.5X   3.8V   4.1X  4CX
GDY                                   6.9K   1.4X  -2.9%   5.94        -3.5X   4.3         2.      2.73   4.5X   4.W    5.6X
DY per Csgita                         3.6X  -4.6   -6.0    2.7X        -6.5K    1.0t       -1.23  -0.5K    1.V3   1.6a    2.3
Toal Careptricn per Copita           -4.0X   .7?.    -7Y.C    4.23     -4.4   -1.45        0.1X   -1.2X  -0.3    0.4:   1.0X
Private Caupsicn per Coits           -5.1X  -7.4X  -7.9X    7.3X       -0.9X  -1.4X        0.3   -1*.   0.5X   0.5X    1.3
ExtfL Debt:
..............
Total DO  (in US miltian)             647.8  68.5  742.6  73.9          801.6  in.9        876.8  913.8  975.0 10D.3 109Z.6
OD/Inpxwt of G(S                      137.6  124.8  116.7  114.7        172.4   38.4        1a.6  1184  124.9  1V.8  128.5
62.0   51.5   47.5   48.4         52.2   43.8        45.9   44.0   44.8   44.5   43.8
l Debt Servicoe    mlLlticn)       84.8  105.6   99.1   79.0        137.6   79.7        84.3  167.9  K.6    6.6   95.8
Service /!npart of (2S            18.0   19.2   15.6   11.6         29.6   13.2         12.4   21.8   12.3   12.0   11.3
Service /GDP                       8.1    7.9    6.3    4.9          9.0    4.2          4.4    8.1    4.4    4.2    3.8
SeviceEnrt of G&S                 36.9   57.1   52.2   47.0         75.8   34.3         33.4   62.1   32.5   30.8   28.1
SaieMm    ortof GSNFS             37.6   58.0   53.1   47.3         76.3   34.6         35.7   63.4   33.4   31.6   29.0
..................
Gross Investumt/WP                     8.9   13.5   12.9   12.9          7.7   11.7         13.0   14.3   14.9   15.3   15.7
Dawmtic SIvirg/P                       1.1    2.5    3.4    1.7         -0.1    2.0          0.8    1.5    3.3    4.9    6.4
NatilaL SmvAr.WP                       5.0    6.5    6.7    5.2          1.7    3.6         2.6    2.7    5.6    6.8    8.4
rirul SaWirW Rate                      0.3   -1.0    0.2   -0.5         -2.3    0.4        -0.2    0.0    0.5    0.2    0.3
Plbic Inesunt/oP                       6.0    8.7    8.7    8.6          7.7    7.2         7.3    7.9    8.1    8.1    8.0
Pblic Sevir-UP                        -4.2   -4.1   -3.7   -2.6         -4.7   -4.0        -2.5   -2.0    0.3    1.4    2.4
Priwte Ir.wst1nt/WP                    2.8    4.1    4.7    3.9          3.7    4.2         5.4    5.7    6.2    6.6    7.0
Private Saiir/0P                       9.1   10.6   10.5    7.8          6.5    7.6         5.1    4.7    5.3    5.4    6.0
Ratio of PtAlic/Private Inrwt.         2.1    2.1    1.9    2.2          2.1    1.7          1.4    1.4    1.3    1.2    1.1
Ircr. Capitalt/Out Ratio (IIM)         2.8    4.2   -9.0    4.3         -6.4    1.9         3.9    3.7    3.8    3.7    3.2
Pi.tlc Ffrne (M of GDP):
..........................
Garem t Revel* I/                    12.7   13.2   12.9   12.7          9.2    9.6         11.0   12.1   12.8   13.2   13.5
Qfw: Fiscal Rewua                 10.3   11.6   10.7    9.9          7.0    7.6          8.7    9.5   10.5   11.1   11.4
Total E*wdl.trw                      21.3   24.2   Z.3  22.3           19.6  19.3          18.9   21.6   18.8   18.1   17.0
Q(w  prl,mry                      15.9   17.1   15.7   13.9         11.1   10.9         10.9   10.6   10.1    9.5    9.1
Primvy Def icit/supls                -3.2   -3.9   -2.8   *1.2         -2.0   -1.2          0.1    1.4    2.7    3.7    4.4
Overall oeffcft/arplus               -8.6  -11.0   -9.4   -9.6         -10.4   -9.7        -7.9   -9.5   -6.0   -4.9   -3.5
Ott0w EUcuilc Indfcastas:
..........................
Itplicit GP Deflator (19aMD)         100.0   96.4   99.3   99.0        12.6  10.5         105.5  108.6  111.7  114.7  117.6
knlt pwvr ts dog                   2.9X  -3.6X   3.1K  -O.           3.4    1.93         4X     2.93   2.W    2.73   2*
Wts GraM Rate                       4853  -8.95    5.3    8.43        -25.9X   1.3        11.0*   5.5    2.8    3.5X   4.3
VwtsAw                               35.1   283   29.3   29.5         2Z.0   19.9          2.6  21.6    Z.0    2.3 Z.9
prts Gr   Rate                       31.13 -10.7K  -3.3X   3.5X       -33.2   9.5K         15.2   4.73   2.93   3.4    4.23
Inpot8/l0lP                           45.0   41.2   40.7   42.2         30.3   31.7        35.7   37.2   35.3   34.8   34.1
O.rrmit Acc. RlmolN CM milt lt f I/  -41.6  -92.7  -9.8 -l2l.5         -93 -153.8         -199.0 -240.8 -33.5 -197.0  -182.7
Orrui ADcoatWP                        -4.0   -6.9   -6.2  -7.7          -6.0   -81         -10.4  -11.6   -9.4   -8.5  -7.3
Extmul Tomru of Trsd1100)            100.0   84.4  83.7    6.7          85.6   79.6         72.3   70.2   70.7   71.4   72.7
Rubervas fn sad  of ispwtW            -0.3   -0.2   -1.7   -1.2          1.0    3.0         3.2    4.2    4.7    5.0    5.3
....................................... ..................................................................................................
1/ Exctulfng official ruts;
ME=: Offticil; staff e ti
rd projetlaw.



