OFFICIAL
NORWEGIAN GRANT RELATED TO CREDIT NUMBER 2023 BEN
Agreement
for
the Administration of Certain Funds
to be made available by the
GOVERNMENT OF THE KINGDOM OF NORWAY
in Conjunction with the Structural Adjustment Credit
in the
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BENIN
Dated   0      m     :0    , 19S9


﻿NORWEGIAN GRANT RELATED TO CREDIT NUMBER 2023 BEN
AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated  Pd), 193?, between the
GOVERNMENT OF THE KINGDOM OF NORWAY (Norway) and thd INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) to provide for the
administration by the Association of certain funds to be made
available by Norway to the People's Republic of BENIN (PRB).
WHEREAS (A) the Agreement, dated October 2, 1986, between
Norway and the International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development and the International Development Association provides
the framework for cofinancing of development projects by the
parties thereto;
* (B) Norway wishes to make available to PRB a grant in the
amount of twenty million Norwegian Kroner (NOK 20,000,000) (the
Norwegian Grant) to assist PRB in the financing of urgently needed
imports required for the execution of its Structural Adjustment
Program (the Program);
(C) Norway wishes that the proceeds of the Norwegian Grant
should be incremental to the Credit extended by the Association to
PRB for the financing of the Program pursuant to the Development
Credit Agreement (Structural Adjustment Credit), dated May 26,
1989, between PRB and the Association (the Development Credit
Agreement) for the same purposes; and
WHEREAS, the Association, at the request of Norway, has
agreed to administer the Norwegian Grant upon the terms and
conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Section 1.01. The Association, as Administrator on be,half of
Norway, shall enter into a Development Grant Agreement and such
other agreements with PRB, as it may deem appropriate but
consistent with the terms and conditions of the Development Credit
Agreement (excluding the debt service provisions thereof) for the
purpose of assisting in financing the Program. Such agreements
with PRB shall, inter alia, provide that the proceeds of the


﻿-2-
Norwegian Grant may be withdrawn by PRB to finance the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Program and otherwise
eligible for financing under the Development Credit Agreement, and
that the amounts to be withdrawn need not be repaid and shall bear
no interest or other charges. A copy of each such agreement shall
be furnished to Norway.
Section 1.02. The Association, as Administrator on behalf of
Norway, shall have the sole responsibility for supervision of the
Program.
Section 1.03. The administration and enforcement of any
provisions of any agreement enterrd into between PRk and the
Association for the purposes of this Agreement shall be handled
solely by the Association, and the Association specifically
reserves the right, at its discretion and without notice to
Norway, to exercise, refrain from exercising or waive any rights
under such agreement or to modify any provision thereof, provided,
however, that before suspending the right of PRB to make
withdrawals of funds under such agreement, the Association shall
inform Norway and afford Norway a reasonable opportunity for
consultation with the Association.
Section 1.04. The Association shall exercise the same care in
the discharge of its functions under this Agreement as it
exercises with respect to the administration and management of its
own affairs and shall have no further responsibility to Norway in
respect thereof.
ARTICLE II
Section 2.01, For the purpose of this Agreement, Norway shall
during 19f? deposit an amount of twenty million Norwegian Kroner
(NOK 20,000,000) in a trust account with the Bank of Norway in the
name of the Association (the Trust Account). The funds in the
Trust Account shall be freely exchangeable by the Association with
other currencies as may facilitate their administration.
Section 2.02. The Association shall disburse from the Trust
Account such amounts as, from time to time, shall be needed to
meet the reasonable costs of goods and services financed or to be
financed pur.uant to Section 1.01 of this Agreement. Such
dis",arsements shall be effected on the basis of applications for
withdrawal for eligible expenditures submitted by PRB to the
Association in accordance with the Association's normal
disbursement procedures for withdrawal and disbursement of
proceeds of credits made by the Association.


﻿-3-
Section 2.03. In order to assist in defraying the costs of
administration and other expenses incurred by the Association
under this Agreement, the Association may invest and reinvest the
funds in the Trust Account, pending their disbursement to PRB, and
may retain for its own account the income from any such investment
or reinvestment.
ARTICLE III
Section 3.01. (a) The Association shall maintain separate
records and accounts in respect of the funds in the Trust Account
and disbursed by the Association pursuant to the provisions of
this Agreement, and the Association shall furnish on a quarterly
basis to Norway a statement of account on such records and
accounts; and
(b) the Association shall cause such accounts and records to
be audited and certified by the Association's external auditors
for each fiscal year that funds shall remain in the Trust Account
and shall furnish the report of such audit by said auditors to
Norway.
ARTICLE IV
Section 4.01. Norway and the Association shall consult from
time to time, at their mutual request, on all matters arising out
of this Agreement.
Section 4.02. The Association shall keep Norway informed of
the progress of the Program. To that end, the Association shall
furnish to Norway all relevant progress, performance and assess-
ment reports relating to the Program.
Section 4.03. The Association shall inform Norway of any
forthcoming major missions and meetings in connection with the
Program and shall afford representatives of Norway the opportunity
to participate in such missions and meetings.
Section 4.04. The Association shall inform Norway of any
proposed significant modification to the Development Credit
Agreement and shall afford Norway a reasonable opportunity to
exchange views with the Association before effecting any such
modification.


﻿-4-
ARTICLE V
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall become effective as of the
date first above tyritten and, subject to the provisions of this
Article, shall continue in effect until all disbursements have
been made from the Trust Account to PRB.
Section 5.02. If at any time it appears to either party that
the purposes of this Agreement can no longer effectively, or
appropriately, be carried out, this Agreement may be terminated at
the initiative of such party after ninety (90) days' written
notice to that effect.
Section 5.03. Upon termination of this Agreement, unless the
parties agree on another course of action, any agreement or por-
tion thereof entered into by the Association, as Administrator on
behalf of Norway, shall be transferred to Norway, and any funds or
other property of Norway held hereunder by the Association shall
be returned to Norway, and the Association's administration shall
be considered terminated.
Section 5.04. Promptly after termination of this Agreement,
the Association shall furnish to Norway a final report and a
financial statement on the Trust Account, together with an opinion
of the Association's external auditors on such statement.
ARTICLE VI
Section 6.01. This Agreement may be amended only by written
agreement of the parties hereto.
Section 6.02. Any notice or request required, or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement, and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement, shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand, mail, telegram, cable or
telex to the party to which, it is required or permitted to be
given, or made at such party's address hereinafter specified, or
at such other addresses as such party shall have designated by


﻿-5-
notice to the party giving such notice or making such request. The
addresses so specified are:
For Norway:
The Royal Ministry of Development Cooperation
P.O. Box 8142, Oslo Dep.
0033 Oslo 1
Norway
Cable address:                           Telex:
NORAD-N                               74256
Oslo
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                           Telex:
INDEVAS                             440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned duly authorized thereto,
have signed this Agreement.
GOVERNMENT OF THE KINDGOM OF NORWAY
By-d /s/ k~e Wl/k 6s je r
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
B d   Aoz V k.
Authorized Rers2tat ye


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


