Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 4853-CHA 
 
Project Agreement 
 
(Shaanxi Ankang Road Development Project) 
 
between 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
and 
 
SHAANXI PROVINCE 
 
Dated May 28, 2007 
 
Page  2
PROJECT AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated May 28, 2007, entered into between INTERNATIONAL 
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
 DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”) and SHAANXI 
PROVINCE (“Project Implementing Entity”) (“Project Agreement”) in connection with 
the Loan Agreement of same date between PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 
(“Borrower”) and the Bank (“Loan Agreement”).  The Bank and the Project 
Implementing Entity hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
–
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to the Loan Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in the Project 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the Loan Agreement or the 
General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE II –
 
PROJECT
 
2.01. 
The Project Implementing Entity declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project.  To this end, the Project Implementing Entity shall: 
 
(a) 
carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions of Article V of 
the General Conditions; and  
 
(b) 
provide promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required for the Project.  
 
2.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 2.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Bank and the Project Implementing Entity shall otherwise agree, 
the Project Implementing Entity shall carry out the Project in accordance with the 
provisions of the Schedule to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III –
 
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
3.01. 
The Project Implementing Entity’s Representative is the Governor or Vice 
Governor of Shaanxi or such other person or persons as such the Governor or 
Vice Governor of Shaanxi designate in writing, and Shaanxi shall furnish to the 
Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen 
signature of each such person. 
 
3.02. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
Page  3
-
2
-
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818 H Street, NW 
 
Washington, DC 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) 
or 
1-202-477-6391 
 Washington, 
D.C. 
64145(MCI) 
 
3.03. 
The Project Implementing Entity’s Address is: 
 
No.300 Youyi West Road 
Beilin District 
Xi’an 710068 
People’s Republic of China 
 
Facsimile: 
 
86-29-85233105 
 
AGREED at Beijing, People’s Republic of China, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By David 
Dollar 
Authorized Representative 
 
SHAANXI PROVINCE 
 
By  
Yuan Chunqing 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  4
-
3
-
SCHEDULE 
 
Execution of the Project 
 
Section I. 
Institutional and Other Arrangements
Project Management. 
 
1. 
The Project Implementing Entity shall maintain throughout the period of 
implementation of the Project, within the Office of the Director of the SPCD, the FFFPO 
responsible for the overall coordination and implementation of the Project, including 
activities related to environment, resettlement, finance, and administration, headed by a 
qualified and experienced manager who shall be the director of the FFFPO, and assigned 
with such powers, funds and staffing in adequate numbers including a Director, a Chief 
Engineer, a Bridge Engineer Specialist, a Tunnel Engineer Specialist, a Resettlement 
Specialist, an Environmental Specialist, a Procurement expert and an accountant all with 
qualifications and experience and terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank and as shall 
be required to enable the FFFPO to achieve its purposes in a manner and substance 
satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
2. 
In the carrying out of Part B of the Project, the Project Implementing Entity shall 
take all such action as shall be necessary to cause Ankang City to comply with its 
obligations under the Implementation Arrangements.  
 
3. 
The Project Implementing Entity shall exercise its rights under the 
Implementation Arrangements in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower 
and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and shall not, and shall cause 
Ankang City not to, assign, amend, suspend, abrogate or waive the Implementation 
Arrangements or any provision thereof, without the prior concurrence by the Bank. 
 
Social, Cultural Relics and Environment Protection. 
 
4. 
The Project Implementing Entity shall, in the carrying out of Parts A and B of the 
Project, implement or cause to be implemented the RPF including the RAPs prepared 
pursuant to the provisions of the RPF, the RAP, and the related EMPs, respectively, all in 
a
manner and substance satisfactory to the Bank.  Without limitation on the foregoing, the 
Project Implementing Entity shall: 
 
(a) 
 take and cause to be taken all necessary actions to minimize to the extent 
possible the acquisition of land or assets of people, any involuntary loss by persons of 
shelter, productive assets or access to productive assets or income or means of livelihood, 
temporarily or permanently, and the displacement of said people in the carrying out the 
Project or any Part thereof;  
 
Page  5
-
4
-
(b) 
where the acquisition of land or assets or the displacement of people is 
unavoidable make available or cause to be made available to such people compensation 
in accordance with the RAP and the RPF, and before the carrying out of the works which 
would result in such acquisition or displacement, all in a manner satisfactory to the Bank;  
 
(c) 
in carrying out the Project or any part thereof, apply or cause to be 
applied the EMPs in a manner satisfactory to the Bank; and 
 
(d) 
in the event that cultural relics as the term is defined under the relevant 
legislation of the Borrower are found during the carrying out of the Project or any part 
thereof, the Borrower shall immediately cease all civil works and related activities in 
such area and prepare and furnish to the Bank for its approval a plan for the preservation 
of such cultural relics, and thereafter carry out such plan as so approved by the Bank. 
 
5. 
The Project Implementing Entity shall, by no latter than September 30, 2007, 
prepare and furnish to the Bank the Maoba-Bashan Expressway RAP and the Maoba-
Bashan Expressway EIA, satisfactory to the Bank, and thereafter implement or cause to 
be implemented in the construction of the Maoba-Bashan Expressway, the Maoba-
Bashan Expressway RAP and the environmental mitigating measures under the Maoba-
Bashan Expressway, all in a manner and substance satisfactory to the Bank. Without 
limitation on the foregoing, the Project Implementing Entity shall take and cause to be 
taken all necessary actions to minimize to the extent possible the acquisition of land or 
assets of people, any involuntary loss by persons of shelter, productive assets or access to 
productive assets or income or means of livelihood, temporarily or permanently, and the 
displacement of said people in the carrying out the Maoba-Bashan Expressway.  
 
6. 
In the event that cultural relics as the term is defined under the relevant 
legislation of the Borrower are found during the construction of the Maoba-Bashan 
Expressway, the Project Implementing Entity shall immediately cease or cause to be 
ceased all civil works and related activities in such area and prepare and furnish to the 
Bank for its approval a plan for the preservation of such cultural relics in accordance with 
the Borrower’s relevant legislation, and thereafter carry out such plan as so approved by 
the Bank. 
 
7. 
The Project Implementing Entity shall not amend, suspend, or waive the RAP, 
the RPF, the RAPs referred to in paragraph 4(b) of this Section, the Maoba-Bashan 
Expressway RAP, the EMF, the relevant EMPs and the  Maoba-Bashan Expressway EIA 
or any provision thereof, without the prior concurrence of the Bank.   
 
Project Implementation. 
 
8.  
For purposes of carrying out Part B of the Project, the Project Implementing 
Entity shall and shall cause Ankang City to, in a manner and substance satisfactory to the 
Bank: 
 
Page  6
-
5
-
(a)  
select Local Roads Sections, in accordance with selection criteria, 
satisfactory to the Bank, including: (i) priority in eliminating traffic bottlenecks; (ii) 
location along the corridor around the AME to contribute to, and take advantage of, the 
transport benefits of the proposed expressway; (iii) improvement of access to poor areas 
(below per capita income of RMB 865 per annum); and (iv) reduce environmental 
impacts;  
 
(b) 
apply the RPF, the EMF and the relevant RAPs and EMPs; 
 
(c) 
establish and implement monitoring arrangements; 
 
(d) 
implement the relevant Financial Management Manual, including 
financial management reports; and 
 
(e) 
apply the relevant provisions of the Procurement Guidelines, sample 
bidding model documents to be used for Shopping Works Contracts, and the provisions 
of Section III of this Schedule. 
 
9. 
For purposes of carrying out Part C of the Project, the Project Implementing 
Entity shall: 
 
(a) 
on November 15 of each year, commencing on November 15, 2007, 
furnish to the Bank for its approval an annual training program for the forthcoming 
calendar year and thereafter implement each such training program as so approved; and 
 
(b) 
on or before September 30, 2007, furnish to the Bank for its approval the 
terms of reference for the carrying out of the studies under such Part of the Project, and 
thereafter carryout such studies in accordance with the terms of reference so approved. 
 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting, Evaluation
A. Project 
Reports. 
 
1. 
The Project Implementing Entity shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the 
Project and prepare Project Reports of the Project in accordance with the provisions of 
Section 5.08(b) of the General Conditions and on the basis of the indicators set forth in 
the Annex to this Schedule.  Each such Project Report shall cover the period of one (1) 
calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the Borrower not later four (4) weeks after 
the end of the period covered by such report for incorporation and forwarding by the 
Borrower to the Bank of the overall Project Report.  Each such Project Report shall also 
include information on the progress in the implementation of the Maoba-Bashan 
Expressway, in particular relating to the implementation of the Maoba-Bashan 
Expressway RAP and the mitigating measures under the Maoba-Bashan 
 
Expressway EIA. 
 
Page  7
-
6
-
2. 
The Project Implementing Entity shall furnish to the Bank for its review and 
comments: (a) on December 1 of each year commencing on December 1, 2007, its 
proposed road maintenance budget for the following Borrower’s Fiscal Year (January to 
December); and (b) on March 31 of each year, commencing on March 31, 2008, a report 
on the implementation of its road maintenance budget during the prior Borrower’s  
Fiscal Year.
 
B.
 
Financial Management, Financial Reports; Audits. 
 
1. 
The Project Implementing Entity shall maintain a financial management system 
and prepare financial statements in accordance with consistently applied accounting 
standards acceptable to the Bank, both in a manner adequate to reflect the operations and 
financial condition of the Project Implementing Entity, including the operations, 
resources and expenditures related to the Project. 
 
2. 
The Project Implementing Entity shall adopt and thereafter apply in the 
implementation of the Project the Financial Management Manual, including financial 
management reports, satisfactory to the Bank. The Project Implementing Entity shall not 
amend, waive, suspend, abrogate or cancel the Project Financial Manual or any provision 
therein without the prior approval by the Bank. 
 
3. 
The Project Implementing Entity shall have its financial statements referred to 
above audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, in accordance with 
consistently applied auditing standards acceptable to the Bank.  Each audit of these 
financial statements shall cover the period of one (1) fiscal year of the Project 
Implementing Entity.  The audited financial statements for each period shall be furnished 
to the Borrower and the Bank not later than six (6) months after the end of the period.
 
Section III. 
Procurement
All goods, works and services required for the Project Implementing Entity’s 
Respective Part of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be 
procured in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement. 
Page  8
-
7
-
ANNEX 
 
Performance Indicators 
 
The performance indicators referred to above in paragraph A.1, Section II of this 
Schedule consist of the following: 
 
PDO 
Outcome Indicators 
Use of Outcome Information 
Improve passenger and 
freight traffic flows in an 
efficient and safe manner 
along the corridor from 
Ankang to Maoba. 
 
Freight rate for a shipment 
from Ankang to Wanyuan 
(based on a sample of 
products). 
 
Travel time on existing 
highway and AME. 
 
Accident rates on the 
existing Highway and 
AME. 
 
Assess overall impact of 
improvements to transport 
flows along the corridor as a 
proxy for transport integration. 
 
Assess improvement in time 
saving and accessibility of 
areas around Ankang 
Prefecture.  
 
Identify possible shortcomings 
in addressing road safety 
conditions along the corridor.  
 
Intermediate Results 
One per Component 
Results Indicators for 
Each Component 
Use of Results Monitoring 
AME Component:
 
Enhance road 
infrastructure capacity 
along the Ankang-
Maoba Expressway. 
 
AME Component:
 
Average daily traffic on the 
Expressway. 
 
Average daily traffic on the 
existing parallel highways 
(sample of roads). 
 
AME Component:
 
Assess effectiveness of 
investments in increasing 
overall capacity along the 
corridor. 
 
Page  9
-
8
-
LRIP Component:
 
Increase accessibility to 
markets and services by 
the lower-income rural 
areas of Ankang. 
 
LRIP Component:
 
Increase in average traffic 
volume and reduction in 
travel time on selected 
roads after the completion 
of the improvements. 
 
Reduction in average 
passenger tariffs and freight 
rates per kilometer on 
selected roads after the 
completion of the 
improvements. 
 
LRIP Component:
 
Assess effectiveness of 
investments and efficiency of 
infrastructure in increasing 
freight flow and saving time, 
as a proxy for enhanced 
livelihood and business 
conditions in poorer rural areas 
in Ankang. 
 
Assess effective use of the 
improved use of road 
infrastructure for overall 
integration and transport of 
products. 
ISP Component:
 
Strengthen SPCD
’s 
capacity in managing the 
increasing number of 
kilometers of roads 
under its responsibility 
in the Shaanxi Province 
and, in particular, within 
Ankang. 
 
ISP Component:
 
Increased percentage of 
road provincial road 
network with up-to-date 
information on its 
condition. 
 
Enhanced knowledge based 
on road impacts. 
 
Enhanced overall 
knowledge of road 
management issues and 
approaches at SPCD and 
Ankang Road Bureau. 
 
ISP Component:
 
Assess improved data 
collection practices at SPCD 
for better road management 
decisions. 
 
Assess progress in acquisition 
of knowledge towards the 
application of enhanced road 
management practices at both 
provincial and city offices of 
the SPCD. 
 
