                                   Document of
                                The World Bank




                                                       Report No: ICR2142



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                         (IBRD 4853-CHA)



                                      ON A

                                     LOAN

                    IN THE AMOUNT OF USD$300 MILLION

                                    TO THE

                        PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA

                                     FOR A

             SHAANXI ANKANG ROAD DEVELOPMENT PROJECT



                                  June 13, 2013




China and Mongolia Sustainable Development Unit
Sustainable Development Department
East Asia and Pacific Region
                     CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                      Currency = Renminbi (RMB)
                       Currency Unit = Yuan (Y)

               Appraisal                        Completion
        Effective January 2007              Effective December 2012

        RMB 1.00 = US$ 0.12852           RMB 1.00 = US$0.15874
        US$ 1.00 = RMB 7.7807            US$ 1.00 = RMB6.2997

                            FISCAL YEAR
                        January 1 ?December 31

                  ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AADT          =     annual average daily traffic
AM            =     aide-memoire
AMCB          =     Ankang Municipal Communications Bureau
AME           =     Ankang?Maoba Expressway
CAS           =     country assistance strategy
CPS           =     country partnership strategy
EA            =     executing agency
EMF           =     environment management framework
EIRR          =     economic internal rate of return
EMP           =     environment management plan
FFFPO         =     Foreign Fund Financed Project Office
FIRR          =     financial internal rate of return
IA            =     implementing agency
ICB           =     international competitive bidding
ICR           =     implementation completion and results
ISP           =     institutional strengthening program
LAR           =     land acquisition and resettlement
LRIP          =     local roads improvement program
NCB           =     national competitive bidding
PCU           =     passenger car unit
PDO           =     project development objectives
PMS           =     pavement management system
RAP           =     resettlement action plan
RMB           =     Renminbi (Chinese currency)
RP            =     resettlement plan
RPF           =     resettlement policy framework
SPCD          =     Shaanxi Provincial Communications Department
SPFD          =     Shaanxi Provincial Financial Department
SPHB          =     Shaanxi Provincial Highway Bureau
STC           =     short term consultant
   Vice President:   Mr. Axel van Trotsenburg, EAPVP
 Country Director:   Mr. Klaus Rohland, EACCF, EACCF
  Sector Manager:    Mr. Mark Lundell, EASCS
Task Team Leader:    Mr. Xiaoke Zhai, EASCS
ICR Team Leader:     Mr. Xiaoke Zhai, EASCS
                                     People’s Republic of China
                             Shaanxi Ankang Road Development Project



                                                      CONTENTS



Data Sheet
  A. Basic Information
  B. Key Dates
  C. Ratings Summary
  D. Sector and Theme Codes
  E. Bank Staff
  F. Results Framework Analysis
  G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
  H. Restructuring
  I. Disbursement Graph

  1.   Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................. 1
  2.   Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes ............................................. 5
  3.   Assessment of Outcomes ......................................................................................... 11
  4.   Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ....................................................... 17
  5.   Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance .................................................... 18
  6.   Lessons Learnt ......................................................................................................... 20
  7.   Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners ......... 21

  Annex 1. Project Development Objectives ................................................................... 23
  Annex 2. Project Costs, Financing, and Loan Allocation ............................................. 25
  Annex 3. Institutional Strengthening Programs ............................................................ 27
  Annex 4 Summary of the Land Acquisition and Resettlement ................................... 28
  Annex 5. Economic5and Financial Analysis ................................................................ 29
  Annex 6. Status of Loan Covenants.............................................................................. 38
  Annex 7. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 40
  Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 43
  Annex 9. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 47
  Annex 10. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ..................... 49
  Annex 11. List of Supporting Documents .................................................................... 50

  MAP
A. Basic Information
                                                                           Shaanxi Ankang Road
Country:                China                    Project Name:
                                                                           Development
Project ID:             P075613                  L/C/TF Number(s):         IBRD-48530
ICR Date:               06/17/2013               ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                           PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC
Lending Instrument:     SIL                      Borrower:
                                                                           OF CHINA
Original Total
                        USD 300.00M              Disbursed Amount:         USD 300.00M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 300.00M
Environmental Category: A
Implementing Agencies:
 Shaanxi Provincial Communications Department
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                                Revised / Actual
     Process             Date              Process              Original Date
                                                                                    Date(s)
Concept Review:       05/11/2005      Effectiveness:             08/10/2007       08/10/2007
Appraisal:            06/19/2006      Restructuring(s):                           06/22/2012
Approval:             03/13/2007      Mid-term Review:           04/22/2010       07/05/2010
                                      Closing:                   06/30/2012       12/31/2012

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                        Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                     Low or Negligible
Bank Performance:                                Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                            Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings          Borrower              Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory       Government:         Satisfactory
                                           Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory                           Satisfactory
                                           Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                               Overall Borrower
                        Satisfactory                           Satisfactory
Performance:                               Performance:




                                                 i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                              Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                         Quality at Entry
                           No                                              None
at any time (Yes/No):                              (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           No                                              None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original              Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Roads and highways                                                    99                  90
Sub-national government administration                                 1                  10


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Administrative and civil service reform                               17                  17
Infrastructure services for private sector development                33                  33
Injuries and non-communicable diseases                                17                  17
Rural services and infrastructure                                     33                  33

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:            Axel van Trotsenburg                 James W. Adams
Country Director:          Klaus Rohland                        David R. Dollar
Sector Manager:            Mark R. Lundell                      Jitendra N. Bajpai
Project Team Leader:       Xiaoke Zhai                          Aurelio Menendez
ICR Team Leader:           Xiaoke Zhai
ICR Primary Author:        Chuntai Zhang


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in improving passenger and freight
traffic flows in an efficient and safe manner along the transport corridor from Ankang to
Maoba in Shaanxi Province by: (i) enhancing road infrastructure capacity and network
integration along the transport corridor; (ii) increasing accessibility to markets and social
services for the lower-income families in the rural areas of Ankang; and (iii)
strengthening Shaanxi Provincial Communications Department's capacity in managing

                                                ii
the increasing number of kilometers of roads under its responsibility in Shaanxi Province
and, in particular, within Ankang region.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)



(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                               Original Target  Formally     Actual Value
                                                Values (from     Revised      Achieved at
   Indicator           Baseline Value
                                                  approval       Target     Completion or
                                                 documents)      Values      Target Years
Indicator 1 :     Freight rate for a shipment from Ankang to Wanyuan (RMB/ton)
Value
quantitative or   143                      83                                 230
Qualitative)
Date achieved   12/31/2005                 12/31/2011                        12/31/2012
Comments        The indicator was not achieved. The nominal and real freight rates increased by
(incl. %        61% and 20 % respectively due to high fuel and labor price inflation and toll rate
achievement)    on the new expressway.
Indicator 2 :   Travel time on existing highway and AME (hours)
Value           S310: 5.4                  5.3                               S310: 3.0
quantitative or G210: 4.1                  3.7                               G210: 2.5
Qualitative)    AME: N/A                   1.1                               AME: 1.0
Date achieved   12/31/2005                 12/31/2011                        12/31/2012
                2005
Comments
                The indicator was achieved and actually exceeded by a wide margin. Travel time
(incl. %
                on S310 and G210 was reduced about 44% and 39% respectively, comparing
achievement)
                with the targeted values of 1.9% and 9.8%.
                Accident rate on existing highway and AME (total accidents per year (fatal
Indicator 3 :
                accidents per year))
Value           S310: 40(2)                38(2)                             S310: 36(8)
quantitative or G210: 154(26)              149(26)                           G210: 95(10)
Qualitative)    AME: N/A                   35(13)                            126(2)
Date achieved 12/31/2005                   12/31/2011                        12/31/2012
Comments        The indicator was partially achieved. The accident reduction on S310 and G210
(incl. %        well exceeded the targeted values of 5% and 3% respectively. But the total
achievement) accident number on the AME was larger than the targeted.

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target                     Actual Value
                                                              Formally
                                             Values (from                        Achieved at
   Indicator            Baseline Value                        Revised
                                               approval                         Completion or
                                                            Target Values
                                             documents)                         Target Years
Indicator 1 :     Traffic Volume (PCU/day)
Value             S310: 1384             850                                  S310: 2715

                                                iii
(quantitative   G210: 3315                  2050                                G210: 3463
or Qualitative) AME: N/A                    5870- 6360                          AME: 3049
                                                                                (AADT-vehicle)
Date achieved     12/31/2005                  12/31/2011                        12/31/2012
Comments          The indicator was not achieved due to the impact of removal of toll stations on
(incl. %          S310 and G210 in 2011 and higher toll rate on the AME. Furthermore, some
achievement)      connected expressways were still under construction.
                  Average traffic volume on rural roads (no. of vehicles for baseline and
Indicator 2 :
                  increase % after rehabilitation)
Value             County, township road:                                        County, township
                                              5% per year
(quantitative     434                                                           road: 508
                                              3% per year
or Qualitative)   Village road: 87                                              Village road: 207
Date achieved     12/31/2005                  12/31/2011                        12/31/2012
                  The indicator was achieved. The traffic volume increased much faster than
Comments
                  targeted. The average traffic volume increased about 17% on the sampled
(incl. %
                  county/township roads and 138% on the sampled village roads respectively in
achievement)
                  2012.
                  Average travel time on rural roads (minutes for baseline and decrease % after
Indicator 3 :
                  rehabilitation)
                                              50% per year in
Value             County, township road:                                        County, township
                                              each yearly batch
(quantitative     150                                                           road: 120
                                              50% per year in
or Qualitative)   Village road: 30                                              Village road: 40
                                              each yearly batch
Date achieved     12/31/2005                  12/31/2011                        12/31/2012
Comments
                The average travel time on improved rural roads was not reduced as targeted due
(incl. %
                to the strict enforcement of speed control by traffic police in recent years.
achievement)
                Freight rate on rural roads (RMB/ton-km for baseline and decrease % after
Indicator 4 :
                rehabilitation)
                                            30% per year in
Value           County, township road:                                           County, township
                                            each yearly batch
(quantitative   0.8                                                              road: 1.2
                                            40% per year in
or Qualitative) Village road: 2.5                                                Village road: 1.2
                                            each yearly batch
Date achieved 12/31/2005                    12/31/2011                           12/31/2012
Comments        The indicator was partially achieved. Freight rate on County and Township roads
(incl. %        increased due to the growing economy in the region and the high inflation of
achievement) labor and fuel prices.
Indicator 5 : Passenger services (buses/day for baseline and increase % after rehabilitation)
Value           County, township road:                                           County, township
                                            5% per year
(quantitative   30                                                               road: 106
                                            +2 veh. per year
or Qualitative) Village road: 0                                                  Village road: 32
Date achieved 12/31/2005                    12/31/2011                           12/31/2012
Comments        The indicator was achieved. Bus services increased from 30 to 106 vehicle-trips
(incl. %        per day on monitored county/township roads and from 0 to 32 on monitored
achievement) village roads.
                Percentage of provincial road network with up-to-date information on its
Indicator 6 :
                condition (percent)
Value           10%                         NA                                   100%

                                                 iv
(quantitative
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/31/2005                  12/31/2011                         12/31/2012
Comments
                  The indicator was achieved. The road condition data of all the national and
(incl. %
                  provincial highways were annually collected in Shanxi province.
achievement)
Indicator 7 :     Impact analysis carried out (status)
Value
                                              3 times in YR1,                    3 times
(quantitative     NA
                                              YR3, and YR5                       implemented
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/31/2005                12/31/2011                        12/31/2012
Comments          The indicator was achieved. The baseline survey was carried out in June 2009,
(incl. %          and another two follow-up surveys and evaluation were carried out in 2010 and
achievement)      2012 respectively.
Indicator 8 :     Training and study tour programs
Value             No. of trained staff: N/A
                                            70% positive                      135 persons
(quantitative     Evaluation of activities:
                                            rating every year                 98% positive rating
or Qualitative)   N/A
Date achieved     12/31/2005                12/31/2011                        12/31/2012
Comments
                  The indicator was achieved. Total 135 persons were trained and positive rating of
(incl. %
                  training reached to 98% in 2012.
achievement)

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                      Actual
         Date ISR
 No.                               DO                            IP               Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                                  (USD millions)
  1     06/25/2007             Satisfactory                Satisfactory                      0.00
  2     06/28/2008             Satisfactory                Satisfactory                    10.00
  3     07/20/2008             Satisfactory                Satisfactory                    10.00
  4     02/11/2009             Satisfactory                Satisfactory                    49.49
  5     03/21/2010             Satisfactory            Moderately Satisfactory            212.75
  6     10/10/2010             Satisfactory                Satisfactory                   300.00
  7     01/24/2012             Satisfactory                Satisfactory                   300.00
  8     12/24/2012             Satisfactory                Satisfactory                   300.00


H. Restructuring (if any)

                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                         Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
                                                     The Loan closing date was
 06/22/2012               S       S         300.00
                                                     extended from June 30, 2012 to

                                                   v
                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                          Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                 Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
                                                     December 31, 2012 to complete
                                                     local roads under LRIP and
                                                     overseas study tours and
                                                     training.




I. Disbursement Profile




                                       vi
1.        Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1       Context at Appraisal
Ankang Municipality is located in the southern mountainous territory of Shaanxi
Province and has strong potential for expansion of agricultural, mineral, and hydropower
industries, and development of tourism. However, lack of adequate transport accessibility
and poor quality of road network has become major constraints to the socioeconomic
development of the Ankang region. As of 2004, eight out of the ten counties in Ankang
Municipality were officially designated as poor according to the national criteria.

As part of the 11th Five-Year Plan (2006?2010), the government of China was
committed to promote a “harmonized society?, and to “balance and coordinate? the
developments of the advanced regions along the coast and the economically lagging
middle, west and northeast regions. To achieve this goal, China laid out the strategy to
“develop the west, revitalize the northeast, renew the middle, and keep the leading
position of the east? through interaction, supplementation, and integration among regions.
For implementing the strategy, the governments at both central and provincial levels
addressed the transport needs of Shaanxi Province through two main investment
interventions, including (i) construction of the highway transport corridor of Arongqi?
Xi’an?Chongqing?Beihai,1which facilitated the north-south transport communications
in the country and, particularly, of the western regions to the more developed
southeastern coastal regions; and (ii) improvement of the interconnecting provincial,
county and local road network linking the rural areas in the area of influence of the main
expressways to maximize the development impact of those highways.

These interventions and strategies were in line with the Bank’s FY03-05 Country
Assistance Strategy (CAS) and the FY06-10 Country Partnership Strategy (CPS), 2 and
those set under the China 11th Five-Year Socioeconomic Development Plan for the period
2006?2010, 3 in particular in their aim at improving the investment climate and
addressing the needs of disadvantaged groups and underdeveloped regions. Ultimately,
these interventions would lead to improved productivity in the rural areas, enhanced
competitiveness in inter- and intra-provincial trade, and strengthened cooperation
between central and western regions.

1.2       Original Project Development Objectives and Key Indicators
The objective of the Project was to assist the Borrower in improving passenger and
freight traffic flows in an efficient and safe manner along the transport corridor from


1
     The Ankang-Maoba Expressway (AME) under the Project is one section of the expressway corridor in
     the national expressway system (Lanzhou?Haikou (G75) with total distance of 2,570 km).
2
     World Bank, “County Partnership Strategy for the People’s Republic of China for the period of 2006?
     2010?. May 23, 2006
3
     “Outline of China 11thFive-Year Socioeconomic Development Plan (2006-2010)?, approved by
     10thChina National People’s Congress on March 14, 2006.


                                                    1
Ankang to Maoba in Shaanxi Province by: (i) enhancing road infrastructure capacity and
network integration along the corridor of Ankang?Maoba; (ii) increasing accessibility to
markets and social services for the lower-income families in the rural areas of Ankang;
and (iii) strengthening Shaanxi Provincial Communications Department's capacity in
managing the increasing number of kilometers of roads under its responsibility in the
Shaanxi Province and, in particular, within Ankang region.

The assessment of the achievement of the project development objective (PDO) would be
carried out through the measurement of the outcome indicators, including: reduction in
average freight rates, travel times, and accident rates along the corridor to be constructed;
increasing in traffic flows and in passenger and freight services along the rehabilitated
local roads; higher percentage of the national/provincial road network with updated
information on its condition; and enhanced knowledge and application of updated road
management approaches. Annex1 is the PDO with the indicators and monitoring results.

1.3      Revised PDO and Key Indicators, and reasons/justification
The PDOs and the key monitoring indicators were not revised during implementation.

1.4      Main Beneficiaries
Based on the nature and the PDO of the Project, the main beneficiaries include the
following groups:

The AME users. The Ankang?Maoba Expressway (AME) is one section of an arterial
transport corridor connecting the northwestern China to the seaports in the south. The
transporters and passengers on the AME are the primary beneficiaries of the Project. It
was estimated at appraisal that the average traffic on the AME would be about AADT
10,300 vehicles in 2030. 4

The local road users. About 1,391.57 km of rural roads were rehabilitated under the
Project, which would substantially improve the connectivity in the project area. The
transporters and passengers using the local roads would be considerably benefited due to
decreased vehicle operation cost and shorter travel times.

All peoples in the project area. All people in the project area benefited from the
construction of the AME and rehabilitation of the local roads facilitate and stimulate the
socioeconomic development in the area (about 3 million in 2004). Their livelihood was
improved by more working opportunities during and after the Project, increased income
from farm products, better road conditions for accessing education and health care,
activated socioeconomic activities in the project area, etc.

Road development and administration agencies. Substantial experiences would be gained
by the road administrators in the provincial, municipal and county levels through the



4
    AADT = annual average daily traffic


                                              2
project implementation. The staffs of the road administration and operation agencies have
been trained through the capacity building programs under the Project in the subjects of
highway management, planning, and evaluation, project management, pavement design
and technologies, and road maintenance. Equipment for enhancing road maintenance
would be purchased and used to improve the capacity of road maintenance in the project
area.

1.5    Original Components
At appraisal, the Project was comprised of three components:

Component A: Ankang?Maoba Expressway (AME)
[Estimated cost US$684.4 million - 93.1% of the total project cost - of which US$257.3
million would be financed by the Bank loan]

The AME component included the construction of an 87 km expressway connecting
Ankang and Maoba, which is close to the border with Sichuan Province. The AME was
designed to be four lanes with a designed speed of 80-110 km/hour, six interchanges,
relevant ancillary buildings, and required electrical and mechanical (E&M) facilities. It
also required the acquisition of land and the resettlement of people. The design of the
AME had paid adequate consideration to road safety features and had minimized the
social and environmental impacts. A joint foreign and local consulting team had been set
up to supervise the construction of the AME.

Component B: Local Roads Improvement Program (LRIP)
[Estimated cost US$47.2 million - 6.4% of the total project cost - of which US$40.0
million would be financed by the Bank loan]

The LRIP component aimed at improving interconnections between provincial, county
and village roads in the rural areas surrounding the AME corridor. The intervention
consisted of rehabilitation of existing roadways, with adjustments to its width when
necessary or upgrading existing non-motorized tracks to motorized substandard roadways
when warranted by the number of beneficiaries with due consideration given to
environmental impacts. The total length estimated to be financed under this component
was about 1,480 km. The supervision of these works was carried out by a local consulting
firm that was contracted by Ankang Municipal Communications Bureau (AMCB), and
worked under the monitoring and direction of the Shaanxi Provincial Highway Bureau
(SPHB).

Component C: Institutional Strengthening Program (ISP)
[Estimated cost US$2.6 million - 0.4% of the total project cost - of which US$2.0 million
would be financed by the Bank loan]

Subcomponent C1. Impact monitoring and evaluation study to measure the impacts of the
road improvement under the LRIP on the socioeconomic development and transport
conditions in the relevant areas of Ankang Municipality, and establishing a
complementary knowledge base for future interventions on those types of roads across


                                            3
Shaanxi Province. The study included the definition of the impact evaluation
methodology and sample up to three surveys over the project implementation period
towards providing a comprehensive assessment of the impacts of the road improvement
program on the livelihood of the population.

Subcomponent C2. Acquisition of road-condition data collection (auscultation) equipment
for strengthening the information base of Shaanxi Provincial Communication Department
(SPCD) that was necessary to make informative decisions on the allocation of
maintenance resources and the correct prevention of the deterioration of the provincial
and national roads under its responsibility.

Subcomponent C3. Technical assistance for the use of the road-condition data collection
equipment and the incorporation of the information into the pavement management
system (PMS) installed at the SPCD.

Subcomponent C4. Training and study tour for staff from the SPCD and the AMCB. The
training activities focused primarily on: highway management, planning, and evaluation,
mechanisms for contracting out maintenance, pavement design and technologies, and
safety in highways and tunnels.

1.6    Revised Components
During implementation, the project components remained unchanged, but with minor
revisions as described in next sections.

1.7    Other significant changes
Design changes for the AME. During the construction of the AME component, the SPCD
proposed a design change on the Han River Bridge. The original deck-type steel-tube
arch bridge was proposed to be replaced with a continuous rigid structure bridge. The
Bank cleared the design change by considering that (i) the geological conditions could
not allow for the economical construction of the foundations required for the originally
planned arch bridge; (ii) the remoteness and inaccessibility of the site made the erection
of the steel arch unfeasible, and (iii) the steel arch bridge might have higher maintenance
costs than the proposed replacement.

Changes for the local roads. The LRIP component was implemented by four batches:
first batch of 26 roads; second batch of 46 roads; third batch of 33 roads; and fourth batch
of one road. The total number of local roads rehabilitated was106 roads for a total length
of 1,391.57 km, as compared to 108 roads of 1,480 km anticipated at appraisal. The two
local roads excluded from the Project were improved under other projects using domestic
funds. During implementation, the SPCD proposed, and the Bank agreed, to fully use
domestic counterpart funds to finance reconstruction of the Yuzi Road (a section of S310),
because this road had to be implemented together with the rehabilitation of damages
caused by the severe flood in July 2010 for the sake of saving unnecessary repetitive
costs and completing the drainage and sub-grade works before the upcoming rainy season
in 2012.



                                             4
Adjustment of the project costs and financing plan. During project implementation, the
actual project costs for the AME were increased by about 19.5% (in terms of RMB) as
compared to the original contract prices, among which about 90% of the cost increase
was due to the price adjustments. The actual costs for the LRIP had little increase. In the
meantime, the cost for the ISP was reduced by about 25.8% (in USD). Overall the total
actual project cost was RMB8, 280.2 million (USD1, 217.3 million equivalents 5), about
44.8% higher than that at appraisal. Such cost changes were partly contributed by the
price escalations and the depreciation of USD 6. Due to the project cost increase, the
financing plan was also revised. At appraisal, the Project would be financed by the World
Bank loan of USD 300 million, which was about 40.8% of the total project cost, and the
rest would be financed by counterpart funds. At completion, the World Bank financing
was reduced to 24.6% of the total cost and the government fund took 75.4%. Annex 2
provides the comparison of the actual project cost with the estimated cost at appraisal.

Adjustment of the training and study tours. During implementation, a total of six overseas
training and study tours were implemented, including two in 2009 and four in 2012 with
total 615 person-days, which were less than that anticipated at appraisal. The reduction
was mainly caused by tightened government’s restriction and domestic approval of
overseas travels for government officials. For achieving the objectives of the institutional
strengthening, more domestic training and study tours were organized. Upon completion,
a total of nine domestic training and study tours were conducted for total 891 person-days.
The details of the training and study tours are listed in Annex 3.

2.       Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1      Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
Taking into account previous lessons learned. During project preparation, lessons of
earlier projects, especially the expressway projects in Shaanxi Province, were well
considered. The major lessons were incorporated in the project design and preparation,
including (i) adding efforts to review the feasibility of the proposed investments and the
quality of the engineering designs; (ii) refocusing on the sector agenda; (iii)
complementing high-class roads with complementary component of lower-class roads;
and (iv) defining and designing proper institutional strengthening component. For
enhancing the engineering design, an international consulting team was commissioned by
the Bank to conduct a thorough design review, including conducting a road safety audit.
Furthermore, given that major variations often occur in projects, supplemental geological
investigation was carried out during the detailed design stage, especially on the road
sections with large bridges, tunnels, deep cuts, and high fills. In addition, eight specific
technical studies were formulated and implemented during the engineering and
construction stages to complement the design.




5
     Converted at an weighted average exchange rate of USD1.00 = RMB6.80 for the project period of
     2005-2012
6
     The exchange rate was USD1.00=RMB7.78 at appraisal and USD1.00=RMB6.2997 at completion.


                                                   5
Project preparation and appraisal. During the appraisal mission to Shaanxi Province in
June 2006, the objectives and monitoring indicators were well discussed. The appraisal
mission also had substantial discussion about the connecting section between Maoba and
the Shaanxi-Sichuan border 7. It was agreed that the connecting section of the expressway
from Maoba-Bashan (about 10 km) would be constructed as a separate project and
financed entirely by the government.

Project scope and formulation. The AME was the main component under the Project. For
maximizing the benefits of the Project, especially to the poor, large amount of local roads
(about 1,480 km) were included in the Project. A socio-economic monitory program was
also designed to monitor the project impacts. To implement the Project well and to ensure
sustainable development of the road sector, institutional strengthening programs were
designed under the Project by considering the existing institutional capacity for project
implementation and road sector development in the province.

Potential project risks. Potential risks of the project implementation and sustainability
were identified, including mainly (i) optimistic assumptions on traffic growth; (ii)
possible overrun of investment costs; (iii) lack of road maintenance; and (iv) improper
application of safeguards procedures and policies. But, none of them was considered as
High Risk. However, a series of mitigation measures were proposed, including mainly (i)
improving technical design through sufficient topographical, geological and sub-surface
investigations; (ii) enhancing project supervision by hiring local/foreign supervision team;
(iii) strengthening project monitoring on the PDO, socioeconomic impacts, and RAPs; (iv)
purchasing equipment for collecting road condition data; and (v) arranging properly the
AME operation and management.

Quality at Entry. In general, the project preparation and design was adequate and in good
quality. The Bank’s Quality Assessment Group didn’t carry out a Quality at Entry
Assessment (QAE) for this project. However, in retrospect, the freight rate indicator
could have been designed better to take exogenous factors into account. For example, the
freight rates depend not only on reduction in VOC savings, which the project had a direct
control, but also on macroeconomic conditions, which the project could not control.

2.2      Implementation
The overall implementation of the Project remained satisfactory throughout the project
implementation period. The following are some main factors which influenced the
project implementation.

Monographic researches. The AME alignment goes through a complex mountainous area.
To address the technical challenges of the geological and topographic complications and
ensure smooth construction of the AME, the SPCD conducted eight monographic
researches during the implementation as supplementary to the engineering design. These


7
    Simultaneously, an expressway project in Sichuan Province was under preparation which would connect
    with the AME. However, there were a lot of discussions on the connecting point of the two expressways.


                                                    6
studies were funded by the SPCD. The researches were successfully implemented and the
outputs were well used in the design and construction of the AME.

Local roads improvement. The LRIP was implemented by four batches. The first batch of
26 roads was prepared during project appraisal. The rest roads were selected using the
same criteria, comprising (i) helping eliminate main traffic bottlenecks; (ii) being located
along the corridor around the AME to contribute to, and take advantage of, the transport
benefits of the new AME; (iii) providing access to a poor area (under RMB 865 income
per capita per annum); and (iv) minimal environmental impacts (as interventions focus on
rehabilitation of the existing roads). Experiences of the first batch were well incorporated
in the design and implementation of the rest local roads. At completion, 106 local roads
were upgraded or rehabilitated, including 1 provincial road, 9 county roads, 12 township
roads, and 84 village roads.

Quality control and safety. For ensuring good quality of the Project, a quality control
mechanism was established with clear allocation of responsibilities, detailed measures
and regulations, adequate laboratory facilities, responsible international and domestic
supervision consultancy, and large amount of on-site trainings. A detailed safety
operation manual was developed and disseminated as a handbook to the construction staff
for day-to-day compliance. During the implementation, special attention was paid to
safety control, including construction safety, traffic safety, and flood protection during
rainy seasons. There was no fatal construction accident reported during project
implementation. For all completed road sections, acceptance tests and take-over were
conducted. The completed AME and the LRIP roads were generally in good quality.

Counterpart funds for the LRIP. The non-availability of counterpart funds for the LRIP
remained an issue for a long time, which had negative impacts to the LRIP
implementation. The Bank’s supervision missions raised this issue many times and
requested the relevant government agencies to work together and provide sufficient
counterpart funds in a timely manner, as well as requested Ankang Municipal
Government to provide the required counterpart funds as promised. For such a reason, the
Bank rated the Implementation Performance of the Project as “Moderately Satisfactory?
on March 21, 2010. 8Eventually, the counterpart funds problem was resolved and
provided to the Project. At completion, the total counterpart fund for the LRIP was about
RMB256 million, which was financed by the provincial subsidy, municipal and county
governments, and local roads development funds.

Implementation progress. The overall work progress was within original schedule
anticipated at appraisal. At early stage of the AME implementation, several contracts
lagged behind the schedule, which was mainly caused by late commencement of three
contractors, extreme rainfalls in 2008, very demanding geological and topographical
conditions, difficult access to materials, and constrained working space for pre-casting
and in-situ activities. However, the SPCD, the consultants and the contractors made great
efforts to catch up with the progress. The AME was fully completed and opened to traffic


8
    Bank’s ISR (sequence #5): Shaanxi Ankang Road Development Project, March 21, 2010


                                                 7
on May 31, 2011. For the local roads under the LRIP, most of them were completed
before the end of 2011, including the rehabilitation of some roads which were already
completed but damaged by the floods. However, the implementation of Dongda Road in
Ziyang County, Gaoping Road in Hanbin District and Shiguan Road in Langao County
was delayed and finally completed by September 30, 2012.

Social Safeguards. The Project triggered the involuntary resettlement and the resettlement
implementation was completed in line with the agreed Resettlement Plan (RP) and the
resettlement policy framework (RPF). The project totally acquired 5,713 mu permanent
lands (including 3,040 mu farmland), acquired 2,459 mu temporary lands, relocated 698
households with 2,998 persons, affected 11 enterprises, and invested RMB 262 million in
resettlement implementation.

Environment safeguards. The Project is categorized as Category A for environmental
purpose due to the scale of the project and potential environmental and social impacts.
Full environmental assessment was conducted during project preparation. An
Environmental Assessment (EIA) and Environmental Management Plan (EMP) were
prepared for the AME component. An Environmental Management Framework (EMF)
was prepared for the LRIP component.

During implementation, the FFFPO established a comprehensive environmental
management structure comprised of an environmental management consultant,
environmental supervision engineers (ESEs) and an environmental monitoring consultant,
under the leadership of a dedicated environmental and safety management office of the
FFFPO. A tiered environmental reporting system was in place. The ESEs and FFFPO
carried out site surveys and field meetings regularly, issued correction notices as needed,
monitored implementation status and performance. Monthly and quarterly environmental
performance reports were prepared and reviewed. The requests and recommendations
made by Bank supervision missions were closely followed up.

Regular environmental quality monitoring was carried out by specialized environmental
monitoring stations. Environmental training was carried out throughout the project
implementation period. FFFPO staff, all supervision engineers and contractors
participated in the training in a batched manner.


2.3    Monitoring and Evaluation Design, Implementation and Utilization
At appraisal, a monitoring and evaluation (M&E) program was designed, which included
(i) annual monitoring on the PDO results; (ii) socioeconomic impact survey and
evaluation of the LRIP; and (iii) land acquisition and resettlement monitoring.

PDO result monitoring. A result framework was designed during the project preparation,
including a set of indicators for monitoring the achievement of the PDOs and the
intermediate results, and the use of the result information, as well as data collection plan.




                                              8
During implementation, a consulting entity was recruited to carry out the monitoring
activities. The actual data were collected each year from 2006 to 2012 9 and compared
with the target values anticipated in the monitoring framework. This system was used to
assess during project implementation how well the objectives were being achieved.
Except the freight rates missing the target (which was mainly caused by high labor and
fuel costs), travel time and VOCs were significantly reduced and road safety was
improved. In retrospect, the freight rate indicator was inadequately constructed and
should have been redesigned during project implementation to isolate it from the impact
of factors exogenous to the project.

Socioeconomic monitoring and evaluation. Under the ISP, an impact monitoring and
evaluation program was designed to carry out three survey and evaluation activities.
During implementation, a consulting firm was recruited, who carried out three surveys
and evaluation activities in June 2009, June 2010, and early 2012 respectively. The
evaluation results clearly indicated that the LRIP had huge socioeconomic impacts to the
local people. See Annex 9 for the details on the socioeconomic impact monitoring.

Land acquisition and resettlement monitoring. An external consulting entity was
recruited to carry out the resettlement monitoring and evaluation. Starting from
November 2006, the consultants carried out 8 monitoring surveys, which covered 26
administrative villages in 8 townships of the project area. In the meantime, about 100
households were randomly selected as the monitoring samples. 8 monitoring and
evaluation reports were submitted to the Bank timely. The final monitoring and
evaluation report was prepared in June 2012, which well summarized the implementation
of the land acquisition and resettlement, as well as its social impacts.

2.4      Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
Rating: Satisfactory

Social safeguard. The social safeguard implementation was satisfactory. The
resettlement implementation strictly followed the RPs and the RPF prepared during the
project preparation in terms of the principals and strategies defined in line with the OP
4.12, and the compensation rates determined by reflecting the Chinese regulations and the
restoration demands of the affected people. All the affected were identified, consulted,
compensated and resettled. The external resettlement monitor’s survey and evaluation
concluded that the project affected households restored their income and housing
condition. The resettlement implementation was based on a series of consultations,
mainly on asset investigation and evaluation, residential selection, infrastructure
restoration, and productive restoration. About 120 meetings with the affected and local
population were held in regard to resettlement policy, measures of compensation and
restoration information dissemination, grievance redress actions, etc.




9
      Due to extension of the loan closing date, one more PDO monitoring was conducted in 2012.


                                                   9
Environment safeguards. The EMP implementation was satisfactory. Mitigation
measures defined in the EMP were followed during implementation. There was ongoing
engagement with communities during construction. Information disclosure, such as
bulletin boards, of construction activities were installed to notify potentially affected
people. For potentially high-impact construction activities, prior notification and
consultation were carried out.

A key environmental issue was soil erosion associated with construction activities due to
complex mountainous topography and very limited construction space. Great efforts were
made by contractors to minimize the negative impacts to the extent possible.
Comprehensive slope protection, site rehabilitation and re-vegetation measures were
taken. State-of-the-art engineering and vegetation measures were carried out to stabilize
the slopes along the highway. Twenty eight disposal sites have been completely restored
with proper protection, drainage system and re-vegetation measures. Mixing plants, beam
pre-casting yards and worker camps were either located on road bed and sites for
ancillary facilities to the highway, or finally reused by local communities. Upon
construction completion, debris under viaducts/bridges was removed and the sites were
leveled and re-vegetated. Overall, the impacts were effectively remediated upon
completion of the construction.

Financial Management. The overall financial management was satisfactory. The project
financial management system provided adequate assurance so that the Bank loan
proceeds were used for intended purpose with due efficiency and effectiveness during
implementation. The SPCD generally complied with legal covenants to submit the annual
audit reports and interim financial reports to the Bank. The key project financial staff of
the SPCD has accumulated more knowledge and experience to improve their financial
management capacity. However, some weaknesses and issues were also noted during
implementation. For instance, design changes and variations were not properly processed
and monitored, therefore related approvals were not timely obtained, which resulted in a
shortfall of counterpart funds; delay in provision of counterpart funds for rural roads were
continuously noted which delayed related implementation progress; and project financial
staff at county level lacked necessary experience in managing Bank loan proceeds, which
delayed disbursement and resulted in misstatement in the financial reports.

Reporting and Monitoring. All the required reports were properly prepared and submitted
to the Bank, including semi-annual progress reports, EMPs and RAPs for the LRIP,
financial audit reports, training and study tour summaries, road maintenance budget and
implementation reports, etc.

2.5    Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

Ankang?Maoba Expressway. Upon completion, the AME operation has been handed
over to Anchuan Branch Company (ABC) of Shaanxi Jiaotong Group Corporation.
Established in May 2009, ABC is a state-owned enterprise with independent legal status
and adequate financial management capability. Currently, ABC has 410 staff for
managing 8 toll stations, 3 service areas, and 2 tunnel stations of the AME. A monitoring
and control center is under operation. During the trial operation, a toll tariff for the AME


                                             10
was approved by the provincial government. In Shaanxi Province, the expressway toll
collection is carried out on the provincial network basis 10 and one toll clearance center is
responsible to allocate the network toll to each expressway section through an account
earmarked for toll collections. All toll revenues go to the provincial fiscal account, and
the provincial government allocate fund annually for the AME operation and
maintenance. The toll revenue was about RMB39.08 million in 2011 and RMB22.17
million in the first four months of 2012. The Bank’s mission found that all the AME
property and facilities were maintained in good condition by a well-organized operation
and maintenance mechanism.

LRIP Roads. As a general practice in Shaanxi Province, the local roads are administrated
and maintained by the AMCB. The provincial roads (e.g. S301 or Yuzi Road) are directly
maintained by the AMCB; the county and township roads are maintained by county rural
road administration bureaus through their road maintenance stations; and the village
roads are maintained by townships and villages. The AMCB is responsible for monitoring
the road conditions. Medium and large maintenance projects are financed by the
provincial government and routine maintenance are financed by municipal and county
governments. Periodical maintenance and large rehabilitation projects are contracted to
external road engineering entities through public bidding. The Bank’s mission observed
that the local roads under the Project were constructed in satisfactory quality and regular
maintenance was in place. However, it was found that some roads were damaged or
blocked by slope collapse during the rainy season.

3.        Assessment of Outcomes
3.1       Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

The project objective is highly relevant to the overall development strategies of the
central government and Shaanxi Provincial Government. The central government’s 12th
Five Year Plan (2011-2015) has objectives below: 11
    ? Increasing people's incomes, reducing poverty and improving the living standards

        and quality of life.
    ? Expanding access to basic public services, increasing the educational level of the

        population, and ensuring a stable and harmonious society.

The opening of the AME has substantially improved the connectivity of the transport
corridor linking the northwest to the coastal areas, which reduces barriers to development
and trade. The local roads development increased access to services and reduced social
exclusion. The ISP has also improved the government’s performance especially in
transport planning, project implementation, and road maintenance.




10
     While entering the provincial expressway network, a vehicle is given an IC card. The vehicle only pays
     the toll once while getting out the expressway network.
11
     “Outline of China 12thFive-Year Socioeconomic Development Plan?, approved by 11thChina National
     People’s Congress on March 14, 2011.


                                                     11
The project objective and design are also highly consistent with the Outcomes 2.1, 2.2,
2.3 and 2.4 of Strategic Theme Two: Promoting more equitable development of Bank’s
China Country Partnership Strategy (2013?2016).


3.2    Achievement of Project Development Objectives

Improved Connectivity
The AME is one section of the national expressway corridor from Lanzhou to Haikou
(G75). Most sections of this expressway corridor had already been completed. The
opening of the AME has improved the performance for the whole transport corridor, as
well as the connectivity in the project area. After the opening of the AME, travel time
from Ankang to Maoba takes only 1 hour by the AME versus 3.8 hours on the existing
parallel highway S310.

The traffic volume on the AME was lower than targeted due to several reasons.
Following the requirement of State Council (2009) to gradually remove toll stations on
Class II highways, Shanxi province removed toll stations on S310 and G210 in 2011,
which had negative impact on traffic diversion to the AME. Besides, the toll rate of RBM
1.0 per vehicle-km on the AME is much higher than that of other expressways in Shanxi
(around RMB 0.5 per vehicle-km), which made it less attractive to drivers. Furthermore,
some connected expressways were still under construction, which impacts through-traffic.
However, the AME traffic in April 2012 jumped to AADT 2,343 vehicles after the
opening of the Sichuan section. The annual average in 2012 reached 3,049 vehicles, more
than double than that of 2011. According to the traffic forecast, the traffic on the AME
would meet the target value in 2018 (about 6,585 PCU per day). Therefore, the indicator
will be met with some delayed time, but did not have material impact on the economic
rate return of the AME, which stands at 15 percent at completion versus 15.8 percent at
appraisal.

The improvement of the rural roads has substantially increased connectivity in the project
area and induced more traffic on the roads. According to the PDO monitoring result, the
average daily traffic on the sample roads were 243 vehicles for the county/township roads
and 105 vehicles for the village roads in 2009. Such traffic increased to 508 vehicles and
207 vehicles in 2012 respectively, with average 28% and 25% increases per year.

Socioeconomic Impacts
Reduced transport cost. According to the PDO monitoring result, the average freight
transport cost was RMB 230 per ton from Ankang to Wanyuan in 2012. The average
freight transport cost on the county/township roads was RMB 1.2 per ton-km. Though the
savings of vehicle operating cost (VOC) ranged from RMB0.43 to 3.83 per vehicle-km
for different kinds of vehicles on the AME and from RMB0.15 to 0.07 per vehicle-km for
different kinds of vehicles on the rural roads as shown in the Ex-post economic
evaluation, the savings of VOC did not translate to a reduction in freight price. The
nominal freight rate increased by 61%, and the real increase was 20%. The real tariff
increase resulted from high costs of fuel and labor and high toll rates truckers needed to


                                           12
pay on the new expressway. The fuel price increased by 101% between 2005 and 2010,
and Labor Price Index increased by 79% over the same period. In addition, the toll rate of
RMB 1.0 per vehicle-km was higher than the average rate of RMB 0.5 per vehicle-km in
the province. These increases are exogenous to the project.

Decreased traveling time. According to the PDO monitoring results, the average travel
time on S310 and G210 was reduced about 44% and 39% respectively. Travel time from
Ankang to Maoba was reduced from 3.8 hours on the parallel existing highways to 1 hour
on the AME due to the higher design speed and shorter distant. On the county/township
roads, the average travel time was reduced by 20%. After upgraded from gravel roads to
pavement roads, average travel time on improved local roads was not reduced as targeted.
It was due to the strict enforcement of speed control by traffic police in recent years,
which did not exist when measuring the baseline and setting the target values at the
appraisal.

Reduced accidents. The accident rates on the parallel highways had significant reduction.
According to the monitoring results, the total number of accidents on S310 and G210
were reduced about 10% and 38% respectively, exceeding the targeted values of 5% and
3%. But the total number of accidents on the AME was much larger than the targeted
value and fatality accidents were much lower than the targeted value. The large
deviations between the targeted and the actual figures reflected the challenge of
forecasting accidents for a new road. Compared with the accident rate on a similar
expressway (Shiyan-Tianshui Expressway, intersecting with the AME), the accidents on
the AME was slightly lower. In 2011, there were 84 accidents and 2 fatal accidents on
the AME but 153 accidents and 3 fatal accidents on Shiyan-Tianshui Expressway. In
2012, there were 126 accidents and 2 fatal accidents on the AME but 94 accidents and 5
fatal accidents on Shiyan-Tianshui Expressway.

Improved transport service. Bus service in rural areas was increased. In 2012, bus
services increased from 30 to 106 vehicle-trips per day on monitored county/township
roads and from 0 to 32 on monitored village roads. The improvement of rural road
conditions facilitates the implementation of public transport development policy in rural
areas of Ankang Municipality and the access of local villagers to markets and social
services.

Strengthened Institutional Capacity

Capacity improvement for large project implementation. A complete institutional
framework was established and well operated to manage the implementation of the
Project. During implementation, the project executing and implementing agencies worked
closely with the supervision consultants and gained a lot of experiences in large project
implementation management. The training and study tours programs under the Project
brought a lot of fresh ideas and experience to the staff at the provincial, municipal and
county levels. Altogether, 6 overseas study tours, 9 domestic training and study tours, and
a large amount of on-the-job trainings were conducted. Totally, 135 persons were
involved in this capacity building programs. Incorporating the Bank’s safeguard policies



                                            13
and implementing socioeconomic monitoring programs also efficiently enhanced the
institutional capacity in the road sub-sector of Shaanxi Province.

Engineering capability for highway projects in mountainous areas. Eight monographic
researches were conducted to ensure smooth and successful implementation of the AME
by considering its complexity, which focused on the technical and engineering issues,
such as special geological location, long tunnel air circulation and fire protection, slope
protection, bridge water proof, traffic control simulation technique, etc. The research
outputs were well applied in the AME construction. The report and experiences will be
shared with other similar highway projects in the province and other provinces.

3.3         Efficiency

Economic Evaluation
The economic internal rate of return (EIRR) was re-calculated at 15.3% for the whole
project (15.0% for the AME and 18.5% for the local roads), which is lower than that
estimated at appraisal. 12The lower EIRRs were mainly due to higher project investment
costs, and lower traffic level in early years of operation. Nevertheless, the EIRR is higher
than the Bank’s recommended discount rate of 12%, so that the project is still considered
economically viable. The EIRR was subjected to sensitivity analysis to test different
scenarios of costs and benefits. The sensitivity analysis results showed that the project
would continue to be economically viable for all tested scenarios. If a 20% operation and
maintenance cost increase were to be combined with a 20% benefit reduction, the EIRR
would be 13.0% for the whole project. The sensitivity analysis also showed that the EIRR
was more sensitive to changes in benefits. Therefore, the AME operator and the local
governments should keep the roads in good condition to attract and facilitate more traffic.
The details of the economic re-evaluation for the AME and the LRIP are in Annex 6.

Financial Evaluation for the AME
The AME has provision of toll revenue. On December 26, 2010, the provincial
government approved a tariff for the toll collection to the vehicles using the AME. Before
the opening of the connected expressway in Sichuan, the base toll level was RMB 0.60
per km for small passenger vehicles, which was increased to RMB 0.70 per km after the
opening of the Sichuan expressway. The toll to the freight vehicles is collected on weight
basis. The toll collection of the AME started on December 26, 2010. The toll revenue was
RMB39.08 million in 2011 and RMB22.17 million in the first four months of 2012.
Based on the actual revenue and assumption, the financial internal rate of return (FIRR)
was calculated at 4.2% before tax and 2.3% after tax. If there is no any tax provision, the
FIRR was 4.4%. 13 At appraisal, no such FIRR calculation was provided. The details of
the financial evaluation for the AME are in Annex 6.




12
      At appraisal, the EIRRs were 15.8% for the AME and 46.5% for the LRIP.
13
     Currently, all the toll revenue goes to the provincial fiscal revenue with no separated tax provision.


                                                         14
3.4    Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

In its design and implementation, the Project was and is still highly relevant with the
government’s development objectives and the Bank’s CPS. The opening of the AME and
the rehabilitation of the local road have significantly increased the connectivity in the
project area and the accessibility to socioeconomic activities for the local people. The
strengthened institutional capacity has contributed and will contribute substantially to the
sustainable development of the road sub-sector in the province. However, the PDO
indicator targets were only partially achieved. The Project is efficient by considering its
robust EIRR and FIRR. Therefore, the overall outcome of the Project is rated Moderately
Satisfactory.

3.5    Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

The project facilitates the movement of goods and persons in the southern of Shaanxi
Province. The AME strengthened the link between the remote and mountainous areas to
the east of China and the central Shaanxi, and the LRIP integrated the remote rural areas
into the main economic and social network of urban areas by providing reliable all
weather roads.

Most of the poor villagers in the project areas benefited substantially from the local roads
through access to public social services of health, education, agricultural extension, and
provision of information. Such improvements reduced the perception of isolation and
remoteness among the poor.

The LRIP provided better connection between the hill villages and market places in town.
This made it easier for women to purchase and sell agriculture and household
good/products in which most women in rural areas were engaged, or to be employed in
small shops, restaurants and markets in towns. Accordingly this increased income of
women. The implementation of the project presented an opportunity for rural women to
secure paid employment during the construction period. More convenient transportation
also made it easier for girls to get more education in towns and county seats.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

Human resources development. During implementation, advanced concepts and
techniques of road development were adopted, covering project preparation, construction
management, social and environment impacts, capacity building, etc. These should have a
long-term influence on road projects in the province. Many road sub-sector staffs,
especially in the municipal and county levels, were involved in the training and study
tours, and gained fresh ideas and experiences regarding project implementation and road
maintenance.



                                             15
Foreign fund utilization. The Project is the third road project financed by the Bank in the
province. From implementation of the Project, as well as the projects financed by other
international organizations, the government has well recognized that utilizing foreign
funds to road projects is not only to get financial support but also to bring in advanced
international knowledge and experiences. The government expects to have more foreign
financed road projects in the province.

Pavement management system. By using the vehicles purchased under the Project, about
10,800 km of roads were tested for road roughness and 8,500 km for pavement defects,
which included the whole 4,900 km expressway network and other major/trunk highways
in the province. The collected data have been uploaded to a Road Pavement Management
System (RPMS) installed and used by Shaanxi Provincial Highway Administration
Bureau (SHAB) for road pavement management and maintenance planning. Still at a
pilot stage with simple functions, the RPMS might be enhanced or re-constructed by
using GIS technology and available road condition data in the future. By then, it would
provide more meaningful information and technical supports to the road maintenance
planning and management in the province.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts

Not applicable.

3.6       Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

As a sub-component of the ISP, a program on impact monitoring and evaluation was
designed and conducted to measure the socioeconomic impacts of the local roads under
the LRIP. The baseline survey was carried out in June 2009, and the other two follow-up
surveys and evaluation were carried out in 2010 and 2012 respectively. The general
conclusion of the surveys and assessments are summarized below. The details are in
Annex 8.

      ?   The Gross Domestic Products (GDP) of the sample town/townships in the project
          area increased by 11.2%-17.2% per annum during 2008-2010. The rural net
          income increased in a faster pace, about 18.3%-36.2% per annum. The
          socioeconomic development in the project area was partly contributed by the
          improved transport infrastructure, including the AME and the local roads under
          the Project.
      ?   The improved transport infrastructure has efficiently facilitated the agriculture
          development in the project area, which allows the agriculture products being
          transported out at lower cost, less traveling time, and reduced damages. The total
          agriculture product value increased by 12.0%-13.7% per annum in the sample
          villages. The rural net income per capita increased by 15.5%-24.6% per annum.
          However, the project area is still relatively poor and income per capita is lower
          than the provincial average.



                                              16
     ?   Villagers in the project area now prefer to travel more often and longer distances
         to access product markets, job opportunities, and social services. In comparing
         with that in 2008, the average frequency of traveling to county seats was more
         than double in 2010. The traveling time per trip was also substantially reduced by
         about 20%-50%. However, the traveling cost was not reduced as anticipated due
         to significant fuel and labor price inflation. The number of vehicles owned by the
         sample villagers was about doubled in 2010 in comparing that in 2008.
     ?   The store/shop operators now travel more often to purchase commodities from
         bigger towns and/or markets. The frequency of traveling to bigger towns/markets
         by the store owners was increased by about 50% in 2010 in comparing with that
         in 2008. The travel time was reduced by about half due to better road conditions.
         The revenues of these stores increased at average 200%-500% in 2008-2010. The
         average annual transport cost for these business increased about 100%. But, the
         transport cost in comparing with the total revenue decreased from 6.7% in 2008 to
         5.1% in 2010.
     ?   The public bus service on the sample county/township roads increased from 30
         buses a day in 2005 to 92 buses a day in 2011. The bus services on the village
         roads increased from zero to 37 buses per day in 2011. In 2012, 93% of the
         villages in Ankang were connected with public transport services. Now, the
         transport providers prefer to travel longer distances with faster speed and in less
         time.

4.       Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Low

In general, the AME and the local roads were constructed in good quality. Some benefits
of the Project have been revealed and will be fully revealed along with the project
operation in the next few years. The risk of development outcomes achievement is
generally low. However, special attention should be paid to the following aspects.

Traffic increase. The traffic forecast on the AME and the local roads are based on general
development of traffic demand which is related to long-term economic development,
regional cooperation, and rural development policies. If the economic development in the
project area were to slow down, the traffic levels would be not as high as predicted. The
benefits of the Project would be also lower. The provincial and municipal governments
should develop policies and strategy to sustain the socioeconomic development, which
may fully take advantage of the AME and the local roads under the Project to develop
regional markets for farm products and local transport services.

Toll level and revenue generation. The existing toll tariff of the AME was setup by the
provincial government. Generally in China, the expressway toll level is high, which
causes high transportation cost. In some provinces, the governments have started to adjust
the toll level and also apply preferential toll levels to agricultural products. By lowering
the toll level for the AME, less toll revenue would be generated and its financial



                                              17
performance might be not as robust as calculated. In any case, the government should
provide sufficient fiscal allocation to keep the AME well operated and maintained.

Local roads maintenance. Historically, local roads maintenance was inadequate in terms
of budget and capacity, which caused deterioration of some local roads. For sustainable
development of the local roads, the governments in both provincial and municipal levels
should allocate enough fiscal resources for the local road maintenance. In the meantime,
institutional capacity should be enhanced by completing legislation and the regulation
framework, applying standardized norms, improving construction capacity, strengthening
road condition monitoring, etc. A GIS-based rural road maintenance information system
should be developed for monitoring the road condition, supporting road maintenance
planning, and assisting in project evaluation and preparation.

Local roads network development. Completing the local roads network is very important.
In the project area, a large amount of the local roads need to be constructed, rehabilitated,
or improved. A completed road network may distribute the benefits of the trunk roads to
further distance, attract and generate more traffic, and serve more people in the area. The
government should continuously focus on local road network planning and development.

5.     Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
5.1    Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Satisfactory

The Project was the third Bank-financed highway project in Shaanxi Province.
Experiences and lessons of preparing and implementing the previous two projects were
appropriately assessed and incorporated in the Project. A strong Bank task team was
formed, which was led by senior Bank staff and comprised of experts in different fields.
During project preparation, the Bank appraisal has been thoroughly conducted with
special attention on (i) local road development for maximizing the project benefits
especially to the poor; (ii) quality of engineering designs and supervision arrangements
for ensuring high quality construction; (iii) safeguard policies and measurements for
minimizing the impacts to the local residents and environment; (iv) institutional
strengthening for long-term sustainable development; and (v) including a connecting
section with the Sichuan expressway. During project implementation, the PDO and
project components remained unchanged. The Bank’s performance in ensuring quality at
entry is rated Satisfactory.

(b) Quality of Supervision

Rating: Satisfactory

The Bank team closely supervised and monitored the progress of implementation and
timely identified emerging problems through the following three mechanisms: (1)


                                             18
conducting supervision missions biannually to visit the construction sites to supervise the
overall project implementation; (2) reviewing the semiannual project progress reports,
annual audit financial reports and safeguards external monitoring reports; and (3)
monitoring the result indicators provided each year. For closely supervising and
managing the Project, a strong task team was in place throughout the whole project
implementation. For strengthening the ISP implementation and project management, two-
short term consultants (STC) were recruited to assist the team. A list of the Bank’s
missions and task team members is in Annex 8.

The Bank task team provided effective technical support and made appropriate
interventions to help resolve problems that arose and mitigate potential risks faced by the
project. The Bank’s interventions and support included the technical review of
engineering design, supervision on the construction in terms of compliance with
Conditions of Contract and technical specifications; supervision on the compliance with
the Bank’s policies on procurement, financial management and safeguards; provision of
trainings on Bank’s policies and low-class roads design, etc. The quality of the Bank’s
supervision is rated Satisfactory.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

During project preparation, adequate activities were carried out by the Bank task team to
ensure high quality of the project design and formulation. During implementation, the
Bank team closely supervised and monitored the implementation progress, timely
identified and helped to resolve the hindering problems, effectively ensured the
compliance of Bank’s policies. The supports of the Bank task team were well recognized
by the Borrower. The overall Bank’s performance is rated Satisfactory.
5.2    Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

Shaanxi Provincial Government had sufficient experience in managing foreign funded
projects by international organizations. For the Project, the government provided
adequate and timely supports, including reviewing and approving design documents,
providing counterpart funds from its fiscal revenue, managing the designated account for
the Bank loan, assisting in overseas study tours, and coordinating with the Bank and the
central government. In Ankang, the municipal government paid great attention to the
Project and was deeply involved in the project design and implementation of the LRIP
component. However, the municipal government was unable to provide counterpart funds
in a consistently timely manner. The overall performance of the government was
satisfactory.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance



                                            19
Rating: Satisfactory

On behalf of the government, Shaanxi Provincial Communication Department (SPCD)
took the overall responsibility for project implementation. The Foreign Fund Financed
Project Office (the PMO) under the SPCD was designated to handle the day-to-day
management of the Project. The PMO was headed by an experienced professional
director who was supported by a group of technical staff experienced in engineering and
construction management. A sub-PMO was established under the Ankang Municipal
Communication Bureau to manage the LRIP implementation. Each project county also
established a sub-PMO to implement the local roads in its territory.

During implementation, the PMO worked intensively on project planning,
implementation coordination, procurement and contracting, fund management, and
monitoring activities. The PMO also acted as a focal point in coordination with the Bank,
the provincial government, and the municipal and county PMOs. The PMO managed to
strengthen its capacity to meet the project requirements, including recruiting technical
staff, participating in trainings and study tours, and actively involving in all project
management activities. With the assistance from the consultants, the PMO prepared and
submitted all required reports. Contract management experienced no major issues during
implementation. The financial account for the Project was audited by external auditors
and the audit reports showed no serious financial problem. The PMO facilitated all Bank
missions with adequate assistance. The overall implementing agencies’ performance was
satisfactory.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

Given the satisfactory ratings for Government performance and Implementing Agency
performance, the overall performance of the Borrower was satisfactory.

6. Lessons Learnt

Local roads development. The development of local roads will better transfer the benefits
of the AME to further distance and to more people in the rural areas. On the other hand,
the local road development will also generate more traffic to the AME.

Institutional arrangement for project implementation. The AME was implemented by the
PMO, and the LRIP was implemented by the municipal and county governments. The
coordination and communication among these agencies was sometimes weak which
caused some adverse impacts to the implementation of the LRIP component. For future
projects of such kind, better institutional arrangement should be made by clearly defining
the responsibility and authority of each level of agencies and strengthening the control
power of the provincial level agency.




                                            20
Counterpart fund for the LRIP. Ankang Municipal Government did not provide
sufficient counterpart fund in a timely manner for the LRIP during all of the
implementation period although it had committed to provide such funds at the appraisal.
The progress of the LRIP experienced delays although the counterpart fund was fully
provided by the project counties at late stage of the Project. For future projects, the
project province should be responsible for ensuring that the lower level governments
provide the counterpart funds, and take conclusive measures to urge the governments to
fulfill the commitment.

Access roads to construction site. During implementation, the main access roads for the
AME construction (S310 and G210) were seriously damaged by the heavy trucks. It also
caused inconvenience to the existing traffic and adverse environment impacts. Such
problem should be avoided or mitigated in future projects by properly improving and
maintaining the existing access roads and constructing temporary access roads before
commencement of the main construction; and properly managing the traffic safety and
strengthening environment protection measures.

Training and study tours. The overseas training and study tours were delayed and not
fully implemented because the government had tightened the restriction on the overseas
travelling of government officials during project implementation. More domestic training
and study tours were implemented instead. For future projects, the plan for overseas
training should be made taking into account the government’s policy and regulations.

Rural roads maintenance. Currently in China, the maintenance of rural roads
maintenance is usually insufficient, in terms of budget and capacity. The governments are
trying to increase the budget and improve the performance. In future projects, the Bank
may design appropriate programs for improving the capacity of local roads maintenance,
including enhancing human resource development, purchasing road inspection and
maintenance equipment, developing management information system, and adopting
advanced concepts and techniques.

Transport services development. Road development can only make available of the
infrastructure available for connectivity. Transport services can better use the
infrastructure as to provide low cost services to local people, especially to low-income
people. Future similar roads project should incorporate a public transport service
component into the project formulation.

7.   Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

Upon completion of the Project, the executing agency and the implementation agency
provided opinions and suggestions to the Bank on the Project (Annex 10). The comments
from the Bank team on some key issues raised are listed below.
     ?   The EA/IA thought that the Project had not only brought substantial benefits to
         the socioeconomic development in the project area, but also brought updated


                                             21
        concepts on environment protection, resettlement, procurement and project
        management, which are far-reaching, positive and significant for promoting
        normalized management of highway project construction in Shaanxi Province.
        The Bank team agrees with this comment and will pay more attention to the
        knowledge dissemination and safeguard implementation in future Bank financed
        projects.
    ?   The EA/IA confirmed that it was very necessary that the institution strengthening
        component (ISC) was included under the Project. The implementation of the ISC
        component had resulted in the enhancement of the management capacities of the
        SPCD. The Bank team will strengthen the institutional strengthening and capacity
        buildings component in future projects, but will also ensure that such programs
        should be well designed and implemented to maximize their influence toon the
        success of project implementation and the long-term institutional development.
    ?   The EA/IA suggested that the using of international consultants should be
        formulated and implemented based on the project scope and the capability of the
        project implementation agency. It should be emphasizes particularly on those
        technical and managerial fields which the domestic consultants are not so familiar
        with, and avoid waste of resources by using the international consultants in the
        general fields or the fields in which the domestic experts have rich technical and
        managerial experience. The Bank team thinks that using international consultants
        is still necessary, as they are the major channel to bring advanced knowledge and
        techniques as well as for ensuring good quality of project implementation.
        However, the formulation of the consulting services should be enhanced and well
        discussed with the EA during project implementation. The TOR should be
        adequately prepared with clear working scope and expertise requirements.
    ?   The EA/IA also mentioned that the World Bank should pay more attention to the
        actual effect of the project management rather than the form of it. For instance,
        the frequency of regular project supervision mission from the World Bank should
        be changed from twice a year to once a year, except missions particularly for
        some special supervision such as the procurement supervision mission at the
        beginning of project implementation and the resettlement supervision. It is also
        suggested that the World Bank should not change the project task team manager
        (TTL) too frequently. The Bank team agrees that it is favorable to keep a TTL as
        long as possible.

(b) Cofinanciers

Not applicable.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders

Not applicable.




                                            22
   Annex 1. Project Development Objectives
                                              Target Value                                    Actual Value
                         Bas                                                         2n
 Project                 elin          2nd                   4th                                              5th
                                                                                      d
 Outcome        Unit      e      1st   Yea       3rd         Yea      5th     1stY         3rd        4th     Ye     6th
                                                                                     Ye
Indicators               200    Year    r        Year         r      Year      ear         Year      Year      ar   Year
                                                                                     ar
                          5     2007   200       2009        201     2011     2007         2009      2010     201   2012
                                                                                     20
                                        8                     0                                                1
                                                                                     08
1. Freight
price of       RMB/                                                                  19
                         143    144    146        147        149      83      186           190       190     230    230
Ankang –       ton                                                                    0
Wanyuan 1
2. Traveling
time2
S310
Hengkou–                                                                             9.
                         5.4     6.7   7.4        8.3        9.2      5.3     9.5           10.5      5.0     3.0    3.0
Yudu                                                                                 8
Town）
G210           Hour
                                                                                     5.
(Gucheng-                4.1     5.1   5.6        6.2        6.9      3.7     5.0           5.0       3.5     2.5    2.5
                                                                                     2
Wanyuan)
Ankang-
Maoba                                                                                N/
                         N/A    N/A    N/A        N/A        N/A      1.1     N/A           N/A      N/A      1.0    1.0
Highway                                                                              A
(AME)
3. Accident
rates
S310
Hengkou–       Total     40      48    53                    64               36     38                       26
                                                 58 (3)              38 (2)                44 (5)    32 (4)         36 (8)
Yudu           accide    (2)    （2）    (3)                   (3)              (3)    (3)                      (9)
Town）          nts per
               year                                                                  15
G210           (fatal            186                                                                           71
                         154           205        226        249      149     147     1              145
(Gucheng-                                                                                  150 (9)            (13   95 (10)
               accide    (26)   （32）   (35)       (39)       (43)     (26)    (21)   (2              (10)
Wanyuan)       nts per                                                                                          )
                                                                                     2)
Ankang-        year)
Maoba                                                                                N/                       84
                         N/A    N/A    N/A        N/A        N/A     35(13)   N/A           N/A      N/A            126 (2)
Highway                                                                              A                        (2)
(AME)
                                              Target Value                                    Actual Value
                         Bas                                                         2n
Intermediat              elin          2nd                   4th                      d                       5th
                                                                               1st
 e Outcome      Unit      e      1st   Yea       3rd         Yea      5th            Y     3rd        4th     Ye     6th
                                                                              Yea
 Indicators              200    Year    r        Year         r      Year            ea    Year      Year      ar   Year
                                                                                r
                          5     2006   200       2008        200     2010             r    2009      2010     201   2012
                                                                              2007
                                        7                     9                      20                        1
                                                                                     08
[A] AME COMPONENT
Traffic
volume
  S310
Hengkou–           138                 170                   195                     28                       330
Yudu                            1590             1820                 850     2800         2560      3230            2715
                    4                   5                     0                      80                        0
Town）
  G210      PCU/d  331                 407                   467                     30                       411
(Gucheng-                       3850             4365                2050     2990         3100      3740            3463
            ay      5                   5                     5                      10                        0
Wanyuan)
  AME
                                                                                     N/                       149
(Ankang-           N/A          N/A    N/A        N/A        N/A     6360     N/A           N/A      N/A            3048.5
                                                                                     A                         2
Ziyang)3
  AME
                                                                                     N/
(Ziyang-           N/A          N/A    N/A        N/A        N/A     5870     N/A           N/A      N/A      33     2156
                                                                                     A
Maoba)
[B] LRIP COMPONENT




                                                                23
Average        No. of
traffic        vehicle
volume         s (for
               baselin
                                                                                       N/
County&to      e),        434     5%       5%       5%       5%        5%       N/A          243      332     397    508
                                                                                       A
wn Road4       Increas
               e%
  Village      after                                                                   N/
                          87      3%       3%       3%       3%        3%       N/A          105      128     141    207
Road4          rehabili                                                                A
               tation
Average        Minute
travel time    s (for
               baselin
                                           50                50                        N/
County&to      e),        150    50%               50%                50%       N/A          125      120     120    120
                                           %                 %                         A
wn Road        Decrea
               se of
               (%)
  Village                                  50                50                        N/
               after      30     50%               50%                50%       N/A          65       45      40      40
Road                                       %                 %                         A
               comple
               tion
Freight rate   RMB/t
               on-km
               (for                        30                30                        N/
County&to      baselin    0.8    30%               30%                30%       N/A          0.8      0.8     1.2    1.2
                                           %                 %                         A
wn Road        e),
               Decrea
  Village      se %                        40                40                        N/
               after      2.5    40%               40%                40%       N/A          0.8      0.8     1.2    1.2
Road                                       %                 %                         A
               rehabili
               tation
Passenger      Buses/
Service        day
               (for
                                                                                       N/
County&to      baselin    30      5%       5%       5%       5%        5%       N/A          63       80      92     106
                                                                                       A
wn Road        e),
               Increas
               e%                 +2        +2      +2        +2       +2
  Village                                                                              N/
               after       0    vehicle    vehi   vehicle    vehi    vehicle    N/A          18       30      37     32
Road/4                                                                                 A
               rehabili            s       cles      s       cles       s
               tation
[C] ISP COMPONENT
Percentage                                                                             13
                                           25                50                 115                           180
of             %          10%    15%               40%                60%               1   150%     173%           193%
                                           %                 %                   %                             %
provincial                                                                             %
road
network
with up-to-                                                                            12
                                                                                1133                          147
date           Km                                                                      15   131683   144110         154250
                                                                                 03                           730
information                                                                            62
on its
condition
                                                   Imple              Imple
                                Method
                                                  mented             mented
                                 ology
Impact                                              (first             (first
                                  and                                                  N/   Imple    Imple    N/    Imple
analysis       Status     N/A                     survey             survey     N/A
                                survey                                                 A    mented   mented   A     mented
carried out                                            /                  /
                                sample
                                                  analysi            analysi
                                defined
                                                      s)                 s)
               No. of
                                                                                       N/
               Trained    N/A     11       32       43       37        11       N/A          12       12      10     33
                                                                                       A
               Staff
Training
                                            70                70
and study
               Evaluat                      %                 %
tour                              70%               70%                70%
               ion of                      posi              posi                      N/                     96
programs                  N/A   positiv           positiv            positiv    N/A          95%      95%            98%
               Activiti                    tive              tive                      A                      %
                                e rating          e rating           e rating
               es5                         rati              rati
                                            ng                ng




                                                                24
         Annex 2. Project Costs, Financing, and Loan Allocation

         (a) Project Cost by Component (USD thousand equivalent)
                                                                                     Appraisal Estimates                                        Actual
                                                                                                                  % Bank                                            % Bank
                                                                        Government World Bank       Total                    Government World Bank       Total
                                                                                                                 Financing                                         Financing
Ankang?Maoba Expressway (AME)
  Civil works (subgrade and pavement)                                      255,880     255,880       511,760        50.0%       719,772    257,278      977,050        26.3%
  Building & annex areas, traffic safety & environmental protection         18,692                    18,692                     47,292                  47,292
  E&M and Equipment                                                         19,309                    19,309                     55,417                  55,417
  Construction supervision (local team) and project management              10,084                    10,084                     15,227                  15,227
  Construction supervision (foreign team)                                                1,393         1,393       100.0%                    1,676        1,676       100.0%
                                                                           303,964     257,273       561,237                    837,708    258,954    1,096,662        23.6%

Local Road Improvement Program (LRIP)
   Civil works                                                               5,977      40,000        45,977          87%        36,297     40,000        76,297       52.4%
   Supervision (local)                                                       1,248                     1,248           0%         1,297                    1,297
                                                                             7,225      40,000        47,225                     37,594     40,000        77,594       51.6%

Institutional Strengthening Program (ISP)
    Impact evaluation and monitoring                                                       200           200         100%           67          46           113       40.8%
    Training and study tours                                                             1,000         1,000         100%          194         355           549       64.6%
    Equipment for road condition data collection                              653          653         1,306          50%          645         645         1,290       50.0%
    Technical assistance & training on use of auscultation equipment                       125           125         100%           -           -
                                                                              653        1,978         2,631                       906       1,046         1,953       53.6%

Land Acquisition and Resettlement (LA&R)                                    19,248                    19,248           0%        33,465                   33,465

                                                  Total Baseline Cost     331,090     299,250      630,340          47.5%      909,673    300,000    1,209,673        24.8%

Contingencies
   Contingencies (physical)                                                 68,281                    68,281           0%
   Contingencies (price)                                                    35,629                    35,629           0%
                                                                           103,910                   103,910

Front end Fee                                                                              750             750       100%           822                      822
Interest During Construction                                                                                                      6,807                    6,807
                                                                                           750             750                    7,629                    7,629

                                                          Grand Total     435,000     300,000      735,000                     917,302    300,000    1,217,302        24.6%
    AME = Ankang – Maoba Expressway, LRIP = local road improvement program, ISP = intuitional
    strengthening program
    Source: the World Bank project completion mission



               (b) Project Financing (USD thousand equivalent)

                                                                      At Appraisal                                        At Completion
                               Source
                                                                   Amount          %                                   Amount          %
                 World Bank                                           300,000       40.8%                                  300,000      24.6%
                 Government                                           435,000       59.2%                                  917,302      75.4%
                         Total                                       735,000                                            1,217,302
               Source: the World Bank project implementation completion and result mission




                                                                                     25
   (c) Allocation and Disbursement of the World Bank Loan (USD)
                                                    Percentage
                                       Original                    Revised       Increased /
                Category                               to be                                    Disbursed
                                      Allocation                  Allocation     Decreased
                                                     financed
 (1) Civil Works:
    (a) under Part A of the Project   255,880,000         50%     257,277,981      1,397,981    257,277,981
    (b) under Part B of the Project    40,000,000         87%      40,000,000               -    40,000,000
 (2) Consultant's services              1,720,000         100%      1,721,888          1,888      1,721,888
 (3) Training                           1,000,000         100%        355,008      (644,992)        355,008
 (4) Goods                               650,000          50%         645,123         (4,877)       645,123
 (5) Unallocated                         750,000                                      (750,000)
               Total                 300,000,000                  300,000,000                  0 300,000,000
Part A: Civil works for the Ankang – Maoba Expressway, Part B: Civil works for the local road improvement
Source: the World Bank project implementation completion and result mission




                                                     26
Annex 3. Institutional Strengthening Programs


         (a)    Oversea Training and Study Tours Implemented
 No.                               Subject                                      Location         Person    Days     Implemented in
  1    Rural Road Maintenance Technology and Management System          Brazil                      6       10         April 2009
  2    Design and Management of Expressway Service Areas                France, UK                  6       10         May 2009
  3    Local Road Pavement Design and Implementation Technology         South Africa, Kenya         6       10         April 2012
  4    Mechanism of Road Maintenance Contracting                        Brazil, Chile               6       10       December 2012
  5    Training on Environmental Protection of Road Project             Canada                     15       21      November 2012
       Implementation
  6    Road Operation Management System                                 Brazil, Argentina           6       10      December 2012
Source: the Project Management Office


         (b)    Domestic Training and Study Tours Implemented
 No.                              Subject                                      Location          Persons   Days     Implemented in
  1    Rural Road Project Management                                    Fujian Province            10       10      Oct. 9–18, 2011
  2    Expressway Project Implementation and Ecology Environment        Anhui Province              9        7      April 6–11, 2012
       Protection
  3    Road Project Planning and Design                                 Hunan Province             10       8       May 5–14, 2012
  4    Expressway Implementation Standardization and Management         Xinjiang Autonomous        11       8       May 6–13, 2012
                                                                        Region
  5    Expressway Slop Protection and Tunnel Construction               Sichuan Province           10       12     May 20–27, 2012
  6    Drainage Technology of Expressways in Mountainous Areas          Jiangxi Province           10       12    May 29–June 6, 2012
  7    Rural Road Construction and Environment Protection               Yunnan Province            10       10      June 2–11, 2012
  8    Rural Road Maintenance                                           Sichuan Province           10       10    November 5–15, 2012
  9    Road Operation Management                                        Jilin and Heilongjiang     10       12      June 8–20, 2012
                                                                        Provinces
Source: the Project Management Office




                                                                   27
Annex 4. Summary of the Land Acquisition and Resettlement

                        Project/item                RP        Actual     Change
        Ankang-Maoba
        Total affected HH                            7348       7253         -95
        Total affected person                       30212      29051      -1161
        Permanent Land Acquisition (mu)              5579       5706         127
          in which, farmland                         2655       3036         381
        Temporary Land Acquisition (mu)                         2459       2459
        Relocated Households (HH)                     483         685        202
        Relocated Persons ( person)                  2262       2953         691
        Affected House areas (m2)                   93050     112061      19011
        Affected enterprise (number)                               11         11
        Resettlement cost (100 million CNY)           1.41       1.88       0.47
        Maoba-Shengjie (as linked project)                                     0
        Total affected HH                               19         19          0
        Total affected person                           77         77          0
        Permanent Land Acquisition (mu)               11.8       11.8          0
          in which, farmland                          11.8       11.8          0
        Temporary Land Acquisition (mu)                  0          0          0
        Relocated Households (HH)                        3          3          0
        Relocated Persons ( person)                     12         12          0
        Affected House areas (m2)                      907        907          0
        Affected enterprise (number)                     0          0          0
        Resettlement cost (100 million CNY)           0.64       0.64          0
        Rural Road Component                                                   0
        Total affected HH                                13         13         0
        Total affected person                            45         45         0
        Permanent Land Acquisition (mu)                6.89       6.89         0
          in which, farmland                           4.29       4.29         0
        Temporary Land Acquisition (mu)                   0          0         0
        Relocated Households (HH)                        13         13         0
        Relocated Persons ( person)                      45         45         0
        Affected House areas (m2)                     1307       1307          0
        Affected enterprise (number)                      0          0         0
        Resettlement cost (100 million CNY)            0.74       0.74         0
        The Total                                                              0
        Total affected HH                             7361       7266        -95
        Total affected person                        30257      29096     -1161
        Permanent Land Acquisition (mu)            5585.89    5712.89        127
          in which, farmland                       2659.29    3040.29        381
        Temporary Land Acquisition (mu)                   0      2459      2459
        Relocated Households (HH)                       496        698       202
        Relocated Persons ( person)                   2307       2998        691
        Affected House areas (m2)                    94357     113368     19011
        Affected enterprise (number)                      0         11        11
        Resettlement cost (100 million CNY)            2.15       2.62      0.47
        RP = resettlement plan
        Source: the World Bank project team




                                              28
Annex 5. Economic and Financial Analysis

An economic and financial re-evaluation of the Project was conducted at ICR stage. A
traffic analysis was carried out to find out the traffic status and development on the
project roads. The traffic forecast for future years was revised accordingly. The economic
re-evaluation assumed that the vehicles on the project roads could drive at faster speeds
with lower operating costs and less travel time. Economic benefits were calculated by
comparing the “with-project? and “without-project? cases. Consequently, the economic
internal rate of return was calculated for the whole project, as well as for the AME and
the local roads, separately. As the AME has provision of toll revenue, a financial internal
rate of return was calculated for the AME.

Traffic Analysis and Forecast

The first section of the Ankang – Maobao Expressway (AME) was opened to traffic in
December 2010 (Ankang–Songping section). The AME was fully opened to traffic on
May 31, 2011. According to the statistics of the AME operator, 1 the annual average daily
traffic (AADT) on the AME was 1,385 vehicles in 2011. On April 13, 2012, the
connected expressway in Sichuan Province was opened to traffic. 2 By then, the whole
expressway corridor from Xián to Chongqing was opened, which attracted larger amount
of traffic to divert from the parallel local roads and other transport corridors. According
to the statistics, the AME traffic in April 2012 jumped to AADT 2,343 vehicles, about
69% higher than the 2011 average. As a general practice in China, the traffic diversion
from local roads and/or other transport corridors to a new expressway normally takes
about 6 – 10 months and the provision of long distance bus service on the new
expressway takes about one year. In considering the existing traffic, the socioeconomic
development in the project corridor, and the functions of the AME, the growth rates for
future traffic of the AME were adjusted by assuming that the traffic on the AME would
increase by average 18%–19% in 2013–1015, 13%–14% in 2016–2020, and 5% in 2021
and onwards. 3

                       Table 5.1 Existing Traffic on the AME (AADT vehicle)
                      Car/van    Bus      Small     Medium       Large        Super        Total
    Existing Taffic
        2011               908      17        323          79         35            23       1,385
        2012             1,531      46        472         131         57           106       2,343
    increased by           69%    171%        46%         66%        63%          361%         69%
    Note: the traffic for 2012 is the existing traffic in April of 2012
    Source: Anchuan Branch Company (ABC) of Shaanxi Jiaotong Group Corporation




1
      Anchuan Branch Company (ABC) of Shaanxi Jiaotong Group Corporation
2
      Expressway of Dazhou to Shaanxi border, 138.4 km, financed by the Asian Development
      Bank and Sichuan government
3
      At appraisal, the traffic growth rates were estimated at 7.1% for 2005-2011, 5.2% for 2011-
      2020, and 4.0% for 2020-2030.


                                                  29
Under the benefit monitoring and evaluation program, traffic surveys were conducted on
selected sample local roads under the LRIP. The baseline survey was carried out in June
2009, and another two follow-up surveys were carried out in 2010 and 2012 respectively.
The daily traffic counts on the same sample roads were collected. The survey results
showed that the traffic in 2011 was increased by 14%–23% in comparing that in 2010 on
the sample county/township roads and 5–13% on the sample village roads. According to
the existing traffic counts and the traffic developing trend, the future traffic growth rates
for the LRIP roads were adjusted at 15%–16% in 2013–2015, 10% in 2016–2020, and
5% in 2012 and onwards. 4

          Table 5.2 Traffic Survey on the Sample LRIP Roads (AADT vehicle)
                                   Length                Vehicles                Growth Rates
             Sample Roads
                                    (km)       2009        2010     2011    2010/2009 2011/2010
      County and Township Roads
       1 Gunsan Road                 15.58      30        36      41        20%         14%
       2 Maowa Road                  10.30      19        21      25        11%         19%
       3 Songliu Road                31.27     101       149     184        48%         23%
       4 Hongniu Road                31.73      93       126     147        35%         17%
                 Average             22.22      61        83      99        37%         20%
      Village Roads
       5 Shishufa Road               13.00      43        50      55        16%         10%
       6 Yongqiang Road               8.10      26        32      36        23%         13%
       7 Xianglu Road                 7.50      24        26      29         8%         12%
       8 Tangmogouzi Road             5.00      12        20      21        67%           5%
                 Average              8.40      26        32      35        22%         10%
      Source: “Second Socioeconomic Monitoring and Evaluation Program and Report?, Shaanxi
      Provincial Academy of Social Science, May 20, 2012

Project Cost and Benefits

The actual project cost was used in the economic re-evaluation, which was about 44.8%
higher than that estimated at appraisal (in terms of RMB). The actual operation cost for
the AME was collected from the operator, which is RMB 24,270,507 in 2011 and RMB
7,811,347 in the first four months of 2011. It was assumed that such operation cost would
be increased by 3% each year along with the traffic increase. Actual routine maintenance
costs were RMB 23,390,000 for the AME in 2011 and average RMB 5,000 per km per
year for the local roads. The periodical maintenance costs were estimated at 10% and
30% of the capital costs for the AME and the local roads respectively. It was assumed
that the periodical maintenance would be implemented in 5–7 years for the AME and 5–6
years for the local roads according to Chinese norms and the traffic levels. All of these
costs were converted into economic costs using an average factor of 0.95.




4
    At appraisal, the traffic growth rates for the LRIP roads were estimated at 3% from 2005-2010, reduced
    by 0.5% for each of 5 years from 2010-2030.


                                                    30
The main sources of the economic benefits were (i) savings in vehicle operation cost
(VOC), (ii) savings in passenger travel time costs, and (iii) other non-quantified benefits.
The VOC savings were calculated using the latest unit VOC data in the project area. For
the AME, the VOC savings in RMB per vehicle-kilometer were estimated at 0.43 for car,
2.05 for bus, 0.58 for small truck, 1.24 for medium truck, 1.99 for large bus, and 3.83 for
heavy truck respectively. For the local roads, the VOC savings in RMB per vehicle-
kilometer were estimated at 0.15 for car/van, 0.60 for bus, 0.18 for small truck, 0.38 for
medium truck, and 0.70 for large bus respectively. Average passenger vehicle speeds
were assumed at 80–100 km/hour on the AME and 20–40 km/hour on the local roads for
the “without-project? case. The passengers’ travel time cost savings were calculated by
different types of passenger vehicles. The passenger time cost was derived from the GDP
per capita of Shaanxi Province in 2010. Other factors taken into account in the calculation
for passenger time cost savings include average vehicle loads, percentage of work-related
trips, time costs by different road users, and travel speeds for different types of passenger
vehicles. Due to data unavailability, 10% was added to the VOC and time cost savings to
reflect other benefits such as socioeconomic development in the project area, poverty
reduction, less accident loss, and road maintenance cost savings.

Economic Re-evaluation

Based on above assumptions and the estimations on economic costs and benefits, the
economic internal rate of return (EIRR) was recalculated at 15.3% for the whole project
(15.0% for the AME and 18.5% for the local roads), which is lower than that estimated at
appraisal. 5The lower EIRRs were mainly due to higher project costs, and lower traffic
forecast in early years operation. However, all of the recalculated EIRRs are above 15%.
The project is considered economically viable for the whole project as well as for the
AME and the LRIP components individually. The detailed EIRR calculations for the
Project are in Tables 6.4–6.6.

The EIRRs were subjected to sensitivity analysis to test different scenarios of costs and
benefits. The sensitivity analysis results in Table 6.3 showed that the project continues to
be economically viable for all tested scenarios. If a 20% operation and maintenance cost
increase were to be combined with a 20% benefit reduction, the EIRR would be 13.0%
for the whole project. The sensitivity analysis also showed that the EIRR is more
sensitive to changes in benefits. Therefore, the AME operator and the local governments
should keep the roads in good condition for attracting and facilitating more traffic.




5
    At appraisal, the EIRRs were 15.8% for the AME and 46.5% for the LRIP.


                                                   31
  Table 5.3 Sensitivity Test for the Whole Project (RMB million)
 Scenarios                                   EIRR (%)                    ENPV
 Base Case                                    15.3%                      4,606.9
 Sensitivity Tests
  1 Operation Cost 10% higher                  15.3                      51,307.4
  2 Operation Cost 20% higher                  15.2                      51,227.6
  3 Maintenance Cost 10% Higher                15.2                      51,300.3
  4 Maintenance Cost 20% Higher                15.2                      51,213.5
  5 Benefits 10% Lower                         14.2                      45,556.1
  6 Benefits 20% Lower                         13.1                      39,725.2
  7 Benefits 10% Higher                        16.3                      57,218.1
  8 Benefits 20% Higher                        17.2                      63,049.0
  9 O&M 10% Higher & Benefits 10% Lower        14.2                      45,389.6
  10 O&M Cost 20% Higher & Benefits 20% Lower 13.0                       39,392.0
Note: EIRR = economic internal rate of return, ENPV = economic net present value,
O&M = operation and maintenance
Source: the World Bank project implementation completion and result mission




                                        32
                              Table 5.4 Economic Re-evaluation of the Whole Project (RMB million)
                                  Costs                                        Benefits                      Net                   Accumulate
                                                                                                                        ENPV
year          Capital     Oepration Maintenance   Total      VOC         Time Cost    Others     Total      Benefit                  of NPV
   2005             8.6                                8.6                                                       -8.6      -18.9          -18.9
   2006            38.6                               38.6                                                      -38.6      -76.2          -95.2
   2007           225.3                              225.3                                                     -225.3     -397.1         -492.3
   2008          1058.3                            1,058.3                                                   -1,058.3   -1,665.3       -2,157.6
   2009          2899.7                            2,899.7                                                   -2,899.7   -4,073.8       -6,231.4
   2010          2505.1                            2,505.1                                                   -2,505.1   -3,142.4       -9,373.8
   2011          1106.2          23.1      23.5    1,152.8       145.2          109.8     25.5      280.5      -872.3     -976.9      -10,350.8
   2012            24.4          28.8      31.1       84.3       276.0          188.1     46.4      510.6       426.3      426.3       -9,924.5
   2013             0.0          29.7      35.0       64.6       338.9          236.2     57.5      632.6       567.9      507.1       -9,417.4
   2014             0.0          30.6      35.7       66.3       418.1          297.0     71.5      786.6       720.3      574.2       -8,843.2
   2015             0.0          31.5      36.5       68.0       518.1          374.3     89.2      981.6       913.6      650.3       -8,192.9
   2016             0.0          32.4      37.3       69.7       611.6          448.5    106.0    1,166.1     1,096.4      696.8       -7,496.1
   2017           141.6          33.4      38.1      213.1       725.9          538.0    126.4    1,390.4     1,177.2      668.0       -6,828.1
   2018           739.4          34.4      39.0      812.8       866.2          646.4    151.3    1,663.9       851.1      431.2       -6,397.0
   2019             0.0          35.4      39.8       75.3     1,039.1          777.8    181.7    1,998.6     1,923.3      870.0       -5,526.9
   2020             0.0          36.5      40.7       77.2     1,253.2          937.2    219.0    2,409.5     2,332.3      942.0       -4,585.0
   2021             0.0          37.6      41.6       79.2     1,317.7        1,060.4    237.8    2,615.9     2,536.7      914.8       -3,670.2
   2022           141.6          38.7      42.5      222.8     1,385.6        1,199.9    258.5    2,844.0     2,621.2      844.0       -2,826.2
   2023             0.0          39.9      43.4       83.3     1,457.0        1,357.9    281.5    3,096.3     3,013.0      866.2       -1,960.1
   2024           739.4          41.1      44.4      824.9     1,532.0        1,536.9    306.9    3,375.8     2,550.9      654.8       -1,305.3
   2025             0.0          42.3      45.4       87.7     1,610.9        1,739.8    335.1    3,685.8     3,598.1      824.6         -480.7
   2026             0.0          43.6      46.4       90.0     1,694.0        1,969.7    366.4    4,030.1     3,940.1      806.2          325.5
   2027           141.6          44.9      47.4      233.9     1,781.3        2,230.3    401.2    4,412.8     4,178.9      763.5        1,089.0
   2028             0.0          46.2      48.5       94.7     1,873.2        2,525.7    439.9    4,838.7     4,744.0      773.9        1,862.8
   2029           739.4          47.6      49.5      836.6     1,969.8        2,860.5    483.0    5,313.3     4,476.7      652.0        2,514.8
   2030             0.0          49.1      50.6       99.7     2,071.4        3,240.1    531.2    5,842.7     5,743.0      746.8        3,261.7
   2031         -5254.6          50.5      51.8   -5,152.3     2,178.3        3,670.6    584.9    6,433.7    11,586.1    1,345.2        4,606.9

Economic Net Present Value (ENPV):                 4,606.9
Economic Internal Rate of Return (EIRR):           15.3%
Discount Rate:                                        12%

Source: the World Bank project implementation completion and result mission




                                                                     33
                                   Table 5.5 Economic Re-evaluation of the AME (RMB million)
                                    Costs                                       Benefits                      Net                   Accumulate
                                                                                                                         ENPV
 year          Capital      Oepration Maintenance   Total      VOC        Time Cost    Others     Total      Benefit                  of NPV
    2005             8.6                                 8.6                                                      -8.6      -18.9          -18.9
    2006            38.6                                38.6                                                     -38.6      -76.2          -95.2
    2007          153.3                                153.3                                                    -153.3     -270.2         -365.3
    2008          877.7                                877.7                                                    -877.7   -1,381.0       -1,746.4
    2009         2891.0                              2,891.0                                                  -2,891.0   -4,061.6       -5,808.0
    2010         2466.7                              2,466.7                                                  -2,466.7   -3,094.3       -8,902.3
    2011          940.3           23.1      22.2       985.5      135.2          77.0      21.2      233.4      -752.1     -842.3       -9,744.6
    2012            18.1          28.8      27.8        74.7      264.5         148.1      41.3      453.8       379.1      379.1       -9,365.5
    2013                          29.7      28.3        58.0      325.6         187.3      51.3      564.2       506.1      451.9       -8,913.6
    2014                          30.6      28.9        59.5      402.6         237.3      64.0      703.9       644.5      513.8       -8,399.8
    2015                          31.5      29.5        61.0      500.1         301.4      80.1      881.6       820.7      584.1       -7,815.7
    2016                          32.4      30.1        62.5      591.9         364.3      95.6    1,051.8       989.3      628.7       -7,187.0
    2017                          33.4      30.7        64.1      704.3         440.8     114.5    1,259.6     1,195.5      678.3       -6,508.6
    2018           739.4          34.4      31.3       805.1      842.4         534.1     137.6    1,514.1       709.0      359.2       -6,149.4
    2019                          35.4      31.9        67.4    1,013.0         648.0     166.1    1,827.1     1,759.8      796.0       -5,353.4
    2020                          36.5      32.5        69.1    1,224.5         787.4     201.2    2,213.1     2,144.0      865.9       -4,487.4
    2021                          37.6      33.2        70.8    1,287.6         895.2     218.3    2,401.1     2,330.3      840.3       -3,647.1
    2022                          38.7      33.9        72.6    1,354.0       1,017.7     237.2    2,608.9     2,536.3      816.6       -2,830.5
    2023                          39.9      34.5        74.4    1,423.7       1,157.1     258.1    2,838.9     2,764.5      794.7       -2,035.8
    2024           739.4          41.1      35.2       815.7    1,497.1       1,315.5     281.3    3,094.0     2,278.2      584.8       -1,451.0
    2025                          42.3      35.9        78.3    1,574.4       1,495.7     307.0    3,377.1     3,298.8      756.0         -695.0
    2026                          43.6      36.6        80.2    1,655.6       1,700.6     335.6    3,691.8     3,611.6      739.0           44.0
    2027                          44.9      37.4        82.3    1,741.0       1,933.6     367.5    4,042.1     3,959.8      723.4          767.4
    2028                          46.2      38.1        84.4    1,830.8       2,198.6     402.9    4,432.4     4,348.0      709.3        1,476.7
    2029           739.4          47.6      38.9       825.9    1,925.3       2,499.9     442.5    4,867.8     4,041.8      588.7        2,065.3
    2030                          49.1      39.7        88.7    2,024.8       2,842.6     486.7    5,354.1     5,265.3      684.7        2,750.0
    2031         -4,806.2         50.5      40.5    -4,715.2    2,129.3       3,232.2     536.2    5,897.7    10,613.0    1,232.2        3,982.3

 Economic Net Present Value (ENPV):                  3,982.3
 Economic Internal Rate of Return (EIRR):            15.0%
 Discount Rate:                                         12%

Source: the World Bank project implementation completion and result mission




                                                                     34
                                   Table 5.6 Economic Re-evaluation of the LRIP (RMB million)
                                   Costs                                         Benefits                      Net                  Accumulate
                                                                                                                          ENPV
 year          Capital     Oepration Maintenance   Total        VOC        Time Cost    Others     Total      Benefit                 of NPV
    2005             0.0                                -                                                           -         -              -
    2006             0.0                                -                                                           -         -              -
    2007            72.0                               72.0                                                       -72.0    -127.0         -127.0
    2008          180.7                               180.7                                                      -180.7    -284.3         -411.2
    2009             8.7                                 8.7                                                       -8.7     -12.2         -423.4
    2010            38.4                               38.4                                                       -38.4     -48.1         -471.5
    2011          165.9            0.0       1.3      167.3         10.0         32.8        4.3       47.1      -120.2    -134.6         -606.1
    2012             6.3           0.0       3.3         9.6        11.6         40.1        5.2       56.8        47.2      47.2         -559.0
    2013                           0.0       6.6         6.6        13.3         48.9        6.2       68.4        61.8      55.2         -503.8
    2014                           0.0       6.8         6.8        15.4         59.7        7.5       82.7        75.8      60.4         -443.4
    2015                           0.0       7.0         7.0        18.0         72.9        9.1      100.0        92.9      66.1         -377.2
    2016                           0.0       7.2         7.2        19.7         84.2       10.4      114.3       107.1      68.1         -309.2
    2017           141.6           0.0       7.5      149.1         21.7         97.3       11.9      130.8       -18.2     -10.3         -319.5
    2018                           0.0       7.7         7.7        23.8        112.3       13.6      149.7       142.1      72.0         -247.5
    2019                           0.0       7.9         7.9        26.2        129.7       15.6      171.5       163.6      74.0         -173.6
    2020                           0.0       8.2         8.2        28.7        149.8       17.9      196.4       188.3      76.0          -97.5
    2021                           0.0       8.4         8.4        30.1        165.2       19.5      214.9       206.5      74.5          -23.0
    2022           141.6           0.0       8.7      150.2         31.6        182.1       21.4      235.2        84.9      27.3            4.3
    2023                           0.0       8.9         8.9        33.2        200.8       23.4      257.4       248.5      71.4           75.7
    2024                           0.0       9.2         9.2        34.9        221.4       25.6      281.9       272.7      70.0          145.7
    2025                           0.0       9.5         9.5        36.6        244.1       28.1      308.7       299.3      68.6          214.3
    2026                           0.0       9.7         9.7        38.4        269.1       30.8      338.3       328.5      67.2          281.5
    2027           141.6           0.0      10.0      151.6         40.3        296.7       33.7      370.7       219.1      40.0          321.6
    2028             0.0           0.0      10.3       10.3         42.3        327.1       36.9      406.4       396.0      64.6          386.2
    2029             0.0           0.0      10.6       10.6         44.4        360.6       40.5      445.5       434.9      63.3          449.5
    2030                           0.0      11.0       11.0         46.6        397.6       44.4      488.6       477.7      62.1          511.6
    2031          -448.4           0.0      11.3     -437.1         48.9        438.3       48.7      536.0       973.1     113.0          624.6

 Economic Net Present Value (ENPV):                   624.6
 Economic Internal Rate of Return (EIRR):            18.5%
 Discount Rate:                                        12%

Source: the World Bank project implementation completion and result mission




                                                                      35
Financial Re-evaluation

The AME has provision of toll revenue. On December 26, 2010, the provincial
government approved a tariff for the toll collection to the vehicle using the AME. Before
the opening of the connected expressway in Sichuan, the base toll level was RMB
0.60per km for small passenger vehicles. After the opening of the Sichuan expressway,
the base toll level of RMB 0.70 per km for small passenger vehicles has been applied.
The toll to the freight vehicles is collected on weight basis. The toll collection of the
AME started on December 26, 2010 and for 20 years. The toll revenue was RMB39.08
million in 2011 and RMB22.17 million in the first four months of 2012. In the financial
evaluation, it was also assumed that (i) the toll revenue would be increased as the traffic
increasing; (ii) the non-toll revenue would be about 2% and 5% of the toll revenue before
and after 2021; 1and (iii) business tax rate of 3.3% of the revenue and corporative income
tax rate of 25%. 2

According to above assumptions and estimations, the financial internal rate of return
(FIRR) was calculated at 4.2% before tax and 2.3% after tax. If not considering the tax,
the FIRR was 4.4%. At appraisal, no such FIRR calculation was provided, so that no
comparison is given in the report. Table 6.7 is the cash flows and FIRR calculation.




1
    The AME also generate non-toll revenue mainly from service area operation/leasing, advertisement
    along the expressway, renting out of the expressway facility, etc.
2
    Currently, no any tax collected from the AME operation. All toll revenue goes to the provincial fiscal
    revenue and fund for operation and maintenance is allocated from the provincial government fiscal
    expenditure.


                                                     36
                               Table 5.7 Financial Evaluation of the AME (RMB million)
                              Costs                                      Benefits                 Business Cash Flow Corporate Cash Flow
year         Capital Oepration Maintenance         Total        Toll     Others       Total         Tax      Before Tax   Tax      After Tax
   2005           9.0                                   9.0                                                         -9.0       0.0        -9.0
   2006          40.7                                  40.7                                                        -40.7       0.0       -40.7
   2007         161.4                                 161.4                                                      -161.4        0.0     -161.4
   2008         923.9                                 923.9                                                      -923.9        0.0     -923.9
   2009       3043.2                                3,043.2                                                     -3043.2        0.0    -3043.2
   2010       2596.6                                2,596.6                                                     -2596.6        0.0    -2596.6
   2011         989.7     24.3        23.4          1,037.4       39.1         39.9      78.9            2.6     -961.1        0.0     -961.1
   2012          19.0     30.3        29.2             78.6      110.9        113.1     223.9            7.4      138.0      34.5       103.5
   2013                   31.2        29.8             61.1      131.0        133.6     264.5            8.7      194.7      48.7       146.1
   2014                   32.2        30.4             62.6      155.0        158.1     313.1           10.3      240.2      60.1       180.2
   2015                   33.2        31.0             64.2      183.9        187.6     371.5           12.3      295.1      73.8       221.3
   2016                   34.1        31.6             65.8      207.1        211.2     418.2           13.8      338.7      84.7       254.0
   2017                   35.2        32.3             67.5      233.7        238.4     472.1           15.6      389.1      97.3       291.8
   2018         778.3     36.2        32.9            847.5      264.5        269.8     534.4           17.6     -330.8        0.0     -330.8
   2019                   37.3        33.6             70.9      300.3        306.4     606.7           20.0      515.8     128.9       386.8
   2020                   38.4        34.3             72.7      342.2        349.0     691.2           22.8      595.7     148.9       446.8
   2021                   39.6        34.9             74.5      360.0        378.0     738.0           24.4      639.1     159.8       479.4
   2022                   40.8        35.6             76.4      378.8        397.7     776.5           25.6      674.5     168.6       505.9
   2023                   42.0        36.4             78.3      398.6        418.5     817.1           27.0      711.8     177.9       533.8
   2024         778.3     43.3        37.1            858.7      419.4        440.3     859.7           28.4       -27.3       0.0       -27.3
   2025                   44.6        37.8             82.4      441.3        463.3     904.6           29.9      792.4     198.1       594.3
   2026                   45.9        38.6             84.5      464.3        487.6     951.9           31.4      836.0     209.0       627.0
   2027                   47.3        39.3             86.6      488.6        513.0   1,001.6           33.1      882.0     220.5       661.5
   2028                   48.7        40.1             88.8      514.1        539.9   1,054.0           34.8      930.4     232.6       697.8
   2029         778.3     50.1        40.9            869.4      541.0        568.1   1,109.1           36.6      203.1      50.8       152.3
   2030                   51.6        41.8             93.4      569.3        597.8   1,167.1           38.5     1035.2     258.8       776.4
   2031      -5,059.2     53.2        42.6         -4,963.4      599.1        629.1   1,228.2           40.5     6151.1    1537.8      4613.3
                                                                                      FIRR      (before tax)      4.2% (after tax)      2.3%
AME = Ankang – Maoba Expressway, FIRR = financial internal rate of return
Source: the World Bank project implementation completion and result mission




                                                                 37
Annex 6. Status of Loan Covenants
   Loan/Project                                  Description of Covenant                                        Date Due        Status   Date Complied
    Agreement
     Reference
Schedule to PA,    The SPCD shall maintain the project management office with a qualified and                 June 30, 2007       C       11-Jun-2007
Section I,         experienced manager and staffing in adequate numbers and with qualifications and
Paragraph 1        experience satisfactory to the Bank
Schedule to PA,    In carrying out of Part B of the project, the SPCD shall take such action as shall be      Dec. 31, 2011      CD       31-Aug-2008
Section I,         necessary to cause Ankang City to comply with its obligations under the
Paragraph 2        Implementation Agreement.
Schedule to PA,    The SPCD shall prepare and furnish to the Bank the Maoba-Bashan Expressway RAP             Sep. 30, 2007       C       30-Mar-2007
Section I,         and EIA, satisfactory to the Bank.
Paragraph 5
Schedule to PA,    The SPCD shall cause to be implemented in the construction of the Maoba-Bashan             Aug. 31, 2008       C       31-Aug-2008
Section I,         Expressway (MBE), the MBE RAP and environmental mitigation measures, all in a
Paragraph 5        manner satisfactory to the Bank.
Schedule to PA,    In carrying out Part C, the SPCD shall on November 15 of each year furnish to the          Nov. 15 each       CD       15-Nov-2011
Section I,         Bank an annual training program for the forthcoming calendar year and thereafter              year
Paragraph 9(a)     implement each such training program.
Schedule to PA,    The SPCD shall furnish to the Bank for its approval the terms of reference for             Sep. 30, 2007      CD      12-May-2008
Section I,         carrying out the studies under Part C.
Paragraph 9(b)
Schedule to PA,    The SPCD shall furnish to the Bank for its review, on December1 of each year, its         Dec. 1 each year     C      16-March-2012
Section II,        proposed road maintenance budget for the following year (January to December).
Paragraph 2(a)
Schedule to PA,    The SPCD shall furnish to the Bank on March 31 of each year, a report on the              Mar 1, each year     C      16-March-2012
Section II,        implementation of its road maintenance budget during the prior year.
Paragraph 2(b)
LA-Schedule 2      The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the               Jan.-Jun.2008    Aug. 31, 2008      CD      Nov. 19, 2008
Section II - A.1   Project and prepare Project Reports in accordance with the
                   provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and on the
                                                                                             Jul.-            Feb. 28, 2009      CD      May 15, 2008
                   basis of the indicators set forth in Annex 1 to this schedule. Each
                                                                                             Dec.2008




                                                                          38
                      Project Report shall cover the period of one (1) calendar semester,      Jan.-       Aug. 31, 2009   CD        Oct. 17, 2009
                      and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than two (2) months       Jun.2009
                      after the end of the period covered by such report. Each such            Jul.-       Feb. 28, 2010   CD        Dec. 14, 2010
                      Project Report shall include also information on the progress of       Dec.2009
                      the Maoba-Bashan Expressway, in particular relating to the
                                                                                               Jan.-       Aug. 31, 2010   CD        Dec. 14, 2010
                      implementation of its RAP and the mitigating measures under its
                                                                                             Jun.2010
                      EIA.
                                                                                                Jul.-      Feb. 28, 2011   CD        Jul. 28, 2011
                                                                                              Dec.2010
                                                                                                Jan.-      Aug. 31, 2011   CD        Sep. 16, 2011
                                                                                              Jun.2011
                                                                                            Jul-Dec.2011   Feb. 28, 2012   CD        23-Apr-2012

                                                                                               Jan.-       Aug. 31, 2012   CD        15-Oct-2012
                                                                                             Jun.2012
                                                                                                Jul-Dec     Feb.28,2013    CD          7-Apr-2013
                                                                                                  2012
LA-Schedule 2         The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in              2008        Jun 30, 2009     C        30-Jun-2009
Section II - B.2      accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09(b) of the General
                      Conditions. Each audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the       2009        Jun 30, 2010     C        30-Jun-2010
                      period of one (1) fiscal year of the Borrower. The audited
                      Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the
                      Bank not later than six (6) months after the end of such period.         2010        Jun 30, 2011     C        30-Jun-2011

                                                                                               2011        Jun 30, 2012          C   27-Jun-2012

                                                                                               2012        Jun 30, 2013    NYD          NYD

C=Complied with, CP=Partially complied with, NYD=Not yet due, OG=On-going,
CD=Complied with after delay, NC=Not complied with
Source: the World Bank project implementation completion and result mission




                                                                            39
Annex 7. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                                    Responsibility/
                 Names                                      Title            Unit
                                                                                      Specialty
Lending
Aurelio Menendez                  Lead Transport Specialist/TTL             EASTE
Carlos Ricardo Escudero           Lead Counsel                              LEGLA
Yi Geng                           Financial Management Specialist           EAPFM
Maria Luisa G. Juico              Program Assistant                         EASTE
Yasuhiro Kawabata                 Senior Transport Specialist               EASTE
Arun Kumar                        Consultant                                EASTE
Naoya Tsukamoto                   Senior Environmental Specialist           EASEN
Peishen Wang                      Environment Specialist                    EASTE
Jing Xu                           Team Assistant                            EACCF
Hongkun Yang                      Procurement Specialist                    EASTE
Han-Kang Yen                      Economic Analyst                          EASTE
Chaohua Zhang                     Senior Social Development Specialist      EASSO
Wenlai Zhang                      Highway Engineer                          EASTE
YoulanZou                         Social Development Specialist             EASTE
Supervision/ICR
 Yi Geng                           Senior Financial Management Specialist   EAPFM
 Petrus Benjamin Gericke           Lead Transport Specialist/TTL            ECSS5
 Jianjun Guo                       Special Procurement Specialist           EAPPR
 Maria Luisa G. Juico              Program Assistant                        EASIN
 Yasuhiro Kawabata                 Consultant                               EXTTK
 Mark R. Lundell                   Sector Manager                           EASCS
 Teresita Ortega                   Program Assistant                        EASIN
 Juan D. Quintero                  Consultant                               SASDE




                                                           40
 Peishen Wang             Consultant                                               EASIN
 Ning Yang                Environment Specialist                                   EASCS
 Songling Yao             Senior Social Development Specialist                     EASCS
 XiaokeZhai               Senior Transport Specialist/TTL                          EASCS
 Qi Zhu                   Consultant                                               EAPFM
 Yu Shang                 Team Assistant                                           EASCS


(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                                         Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                                         USD Thousands (including travel and
                                              No. of staff weeks
                                                                                        consultant costs)
Lending
     FY05                                             17.65                                    125552.40
     FY06                                             38.83                                    210913.67
     FY07                                             13.14                                     69985.07

      FY08                                            0.00                                           0.00

Total:                                                69.62                                    406451.14

Supervision/ICR
   FY08                                             18.61                                       98100.60
   FY09                                             10.06                                       70190.99
   FY10                                              9.42                                       62558.84
   FY11                                              8.11                                       45488.47
   FY12                                              6.78                                       34255.66
FY13                                                 5.69                                       29472.07
Total:                                              58.67                                      340066.60




                                                 41
(c) Bank Missions

  No                 Mission                       Dates                     Mission Leader
   1         Reconnaissance Mission          February 26-27, 2005           Aurelio Menendez
   2           Identification Mission        Mar. 30 - Apr.6, 2005          Aurelio Menendez
   3            Preparation Mission         September 19-25, 2005           Aurelio Menendez
   4           Pre-appraisal Mission          January 17-26, 2006           Aurelio Menendez
   5             Appraisal Mission             June 19-24, 2006             Aurelio Menendez
   6        Pre-Implementation Mission       October 22-24, 2007              Zhang Wenlai
   7            Supervision Mission             April 6-12, 2008            Aurelio Menendez
   8            Supervision Mission          October 19-25, 2008               Ben Gericke
   9            Supervision Mission            March 11-18,2009                Ben Gericke
   10           Supervision Mission          October 19-25, 2009               Ben Gericke
   11           Supervision Mission          June28 - July 05,2010             Ben Gericke
   12           Supervision Mission         November 22-26, 2010              Zhang Wenlai
   13           Supervision Mission         May 30 – June 3, 2011             Zhang Wenlai
   14           Supervision Mission             Nov14-18, 2011                Zhang Wenlai
   15           Supervision Mission            May 21-25, 2012                Zhang Wenlai
   16           Supervision Mission         September 25-28, 2012             Zhang Wenlai
1. Mr. Aurelio Menendez had been the task team leader from inception until being replaced by Mr. Ben
    Gericke on September 3, 2008.
2. 2. Mr. Zhang Wenlai took over the task leadership on October 14, 2010.




                                                 42
Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results

As a sub-component of the ISP, a program on impact monitoring and evaluation study
was designed and implemented to measure the socioeconomic impacts of the local roads
under the LRIP. The study included the definition of the impact evaluation methodology
and sample up to three surveys over the project implementation period towards providing
a comprehensive assessment of the impacts on the livelihood of the people in the
influenced areas. A local consulting entity was recruited to implement the survey and
evaluation tasks designed. 1 The baseline survey was carried out in June 2009, and other
two follow-up survey and evaluations were carried out in 2010 and 2012 respectively.

In the surveys, 12 local roads (6 project roads and 6 comparing roads) were selected as
the sample roads and 24 households (12 households along the project roads and 12
households away from the project roads as a comparing group) were selected. General
information of the households were collected, including family size, income, expenditure,
production, property, traveling, etc. In addition, a set of questionnaires was designed and
used to collect the information of other stakeholders in the project areas, including
transporter, store operators, small enterprise owners, teachers and students, medical
doctors, and township and village administrators. The questionnaires cover many aspects
of the transport and travel information, including distance, traveling means, cost,
frequency, etc. During implementation, three surveys were conducted to the same survey
groups. Assessments were carried out to compare between the sample group and
comparing group. The changes over three surveys were analyzed. As suggested by the
Bank review, more transport related information was added in the survey, like vehicle
possession, local transport service, and transport related employment.

The general conclusion of the surveys and assessments of the project impacts are
summarized as follows:

Regional Economic Development

The local roads under the LRIP are located in Hanbin District, Langao County and
Ziyang County. As other districts/counties in the Shaanxi Province, the project
district/counties also experienced robust socioeconomic development. The surveys
showed that the Gross Domestic Products (GDP) of the respondent towns/townships were
increased by 11.2%-17.2% per annum in 2008-2010. The rural net income increased in a
faster pace, about 18.3%?36.2% per annum. Part of the socioeconomic development in
the project area was contributed by the improvement of transport infrastructure, including
the AME and the local roads under the Project. Table 9.1 is the survey results of the
sample towns/townships in the project area.




1
    Shaanxi Provincial Academy of Social Science (SPASS)


                                                43
     Table 8.1 Economic Development and Income Increase in the Project Area
                                         GDP                          Rural Net Income
           County/Town                (RMB million)                   (RMB per capita)
                                 2008    2010      % per year    2008       2010    % per year
    Hanbin District
        Datong Town               258.07     348.49      16.2%     31.08     46.53      22.4%
        Wuli Tow                  808.36 1,110.16        17.2%     31.40     58.24      36.2%
    Fenggao County
        Minzhu Town               191.92     254.98      15.3%     28.79     41.11      19.5%
        Zhanghe Township           37.17      45.96      11.2%     27.93     39.09      18.3%
    Ziyang County
        Donghe Town                55.56      73.88      15.3%     30.20     43.92      20.6%
        Chengguan Town            380.00     518.77      16.8%     30.08     46.18      23.9%
      Source: “Second Socioeconomic Monitoring and Evaluation Program and Report?, Shaanxi
      Provincial Academy of Social Science, May 20, 2012

Rural Household Income

The Project is located in a mountainous area with very difficult geographic and geologic
conditions. The improvement of the transport infrastructure has efficiently facilitated the
agriculture development in the project area, which allows the agriculture products being
transported out at a lower cost, less traveling time, and reduced damage. The survey
showed that the total agriculture product value was increased by 12.0%?13.7% per
annum of the respondents. In the meantime, the household income had a significant
increase. The rural net income per capita was increased by 15.5%?24.6% per annum.
However, the project area is still relatively poor in comparing with the provincial average.
Table 9.2 is the survey results of the agriculture development and income increase of the
respondents.

    Table 8.2 Agriculture Development and Income Increase of the respondents
                            Agriculture Product Value                  Rural Net Income
    Sample Villlage               (RMB yuan)                           (RMB per capita)
                         2008          2010      % per year     2008         2010      % per year
Hanbin District
   Yongqing Village      2,000,000    2,530,000      12.5%         2,400        3,200       15.5%
   Baowei Village        2,400,000    3,010,000      12.0%         1,145        1,779       24.6%
Fenggao County
   Fengshu Village         700,000      890,000      12.8%         2,300        3,321       20.2%
   Desheng Village         500,000      629,000      12.2%         2,170        3,177       21.0%
Ziyang County
   Majiazhuang Village  11,500,000 14,870,000        13.7%         2,714        4,043       22.1%
   Xianglu Village       6,000,000    7,575,000      12.4%         2,601        3,824       21.3%
 Source: “Second Socioeconomic Monitoring and Evaluation Program and Report?, Shaanxi Provincial
 Academy of Social Science, May 20, 2012




                                                44
Connectivity Improvement

According to the survey, villagers in the project area now prefer to travel more often and
to further distance to access product markets, working opportunities, and social services
due to road infrastructure improvement. In comparing with that in 2008, the average
frequency of traveling to county seats was more than double in 2010. The traveling time
per trip was also substantially reduced by about 20%?50%. However, the traveling cost
was not reduced as anticipated due to fuel and labor price inflation. For facilitating the
more frequent traveling, many villagers have purchased their own transport vehicles. The
number of vehicles owned by the sample villagers was about double in 2010 in
comparing that in 2008. Table 9.3 is the survey results on traveling to county seats of the
of the respondents.

                Table 8.3 Vehicle and Traveling of Respondent Households
                                       Vehicles and Machine       Frequency to County Seat    Time Spent and Cost
    County/Village    Household Head           (unit)                 (times per year)           (monist/yuan)
                                       2008    2009    2010        2008     2009    2010     2008    2009     2010
Hanbin District
  Yongqing Village   Li Zhixing              1       1        2        1       5      10     70/12   30/10   30/12
                     Wang Zhiwan         -       -            1        1       4      10     70/12   30/10   30/12
  Baowei Village     Zheng Jirong            1       1        1        1       4       5     90/15   40/12   40/15
                     Zhang Bo                2       3        3      183     220     300     90/15   40/12   40/15
Fenggao County
  Fengshu Village    Cheng Jianfu            1       1        1        6      15      30     40/10   30/10   30/12
                     Shong Ronggang          1       2        2       24      40      50     40/10   30/10   30/12
  Desheng Village    Xiong Yutian            1       1        2        3       5      10     90/20   50/12   40/15
                     Xiong Shuzhong          1       1        2        5      10      30     90/20   501/2   40/15
Ziyang County
   Majiazhuang Village Yang Chunxiu      -       -            1        4      10      20     30/10   20/10   30/12
                       Hu Qianming       -       -            1        6      10      15     30/10   20/10   30/12
   Xianglu Village     Gong Gaoquan          1       1        2       12      18      25     60/12   40/12   40/15
                       Gong Tao              1       1        1       10      15      20     60/12   40/12   40/15
 Source: “Second Socioeconomic Monitoring and Evaluation Program and Report?, Shaanxi Provincial
 Academy of Social Science, May 20, 2012

Business Development

Along with the socioeconomic development, many private businesses were established in
the rural area, including stores, restaurants, hotels, etc. These businessmen/women now
travel more often to purchase commodities from bigger towns and markets. According to
the survey results, the frequency of traveling to bigger towns/markets by the store owners
was increased by about 50% in 2010 in comparing with that in 2008. For the same
traveling distance, the travel time was reduced by about half due to better connectivity
and road conditions. The revenues of these stores increased substantially, about average
200%?500% increase during 2008?2010. The average annual transport cost for these
business increased about 100%. But, the transport cost in comparing with the total
revenue decreased from 6.7% in 2008 to 5.1% in 2010.



                                                         45
            Table 8.4 Store and Business Development in the Project Area
                      Trips       Travel Distance  Time Spent      Transport Cost Annual Revenue
  Store Owner     (times/year)         (km)        (minute/trip)    (yuan/year)       (yuan/year)
                 2008      2010    2008    2010   2008     2010    2008     2010    2008     2010
Zhang Shijia          52       70     26       26     40        25    520    1000      2400    7000
Li Yuanchang           6       20     30       30    120        40     60     180       400    3000
Zheng Qingbin         90     120      40       40     60        30   1000    2000    20000 40000
Liu Derong            24       60     60       60    100        60    480    1500    18000 40000
Zhang Erjun           52       60     61       61    240        80   1000    1500    12000 35000
Cheng Jianfu          20       40     60       60    100        70    800    1200      5000 20000
 Source: “Second Socioeconomic Monitoring and Evaluation Program and Report?, Shaanxi Provincial
 Academy of Social Science, May 20, 2012




                                               46
Annex 9. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR


The World Bank financed Shaanxi Ankang Road Development Project (the Project) was
successfully implemented. The lessons learnt and experiences gained are summarized
below:
1.      The project management concepts brought by the World Bank project are important
        equally with the loan proceeds from the World Bank. The project has not only
        brought substantial benefits to the socioeconomic development in the project area,
        but also brought updated concepts on environment protection, resettlement,
        procurement and project management, which are far-reaching, positive and
        significant for promoting normalized management of highway project construction
        in Shaanxi Province.
2.      The objectives anticipated by the World Bank for the Project are fully in
        compliance with that planned by the central government. The targets and scope of
        the Project is also fully in compliance with that of the 11thFive-Year Plan by the
        Ministry of Transport (MOT) and Shaanxi Province, including the targets for the
        expressway development, local roads construction and the institutional
        strengthening of the Shaanxi Provincial Transport Department (SPTD). 2
3.      It is very necessary that the institution strengthening component (ISC) was included
        under the Project. The implementation of the ISC component has well resulted in
        the enhancement of the management capacities of the SPTD, mainly including：
        (a) Timely understanding the advanced technologies and updated management
            concept and method from other provinces or developed countries through
            domestic and oversea trainings;
        (b) The trainings specialized in project procurement, environmental protection,
            fund disbursement, etc. has effectively strengthened the project implementation
            and management capabilities of project-related personnel.
        (c) The ideas exchange and the discussion between World Bank's officers and
            project management personnel during implementation was also crucial for the
            capability strengthening of project implementation-related personnel.
4.      Favorable qualities and professional expertise of the World Bank officers was not
        only one of key factors for the success of the project implementation, but also an
        important element to determine whether the project could be implemented in a
        manner of high efficiency and high quality.
5.      Adequate survey and design, and rigid quality control were very importance for the
        successful implementation of the Project. The design program, construction
        technology and quality control measurements guaranteed overall quality of the
        construction of the Ankang–Maoba Expressway (AME) expressway, which was


2
     Shaanxi Provincial Transport Department (SPTD) was named Shaanxi Provincial Communication
     Department (SPCD).


                                                 47
      under special topographical and geological conditions, such as subgrade side slop
      reinforcement, tunnel lining and supporting, reinforcement of pile foundation of the
      bridge at bank slope and the construction of pile foundation of the bridge at
      reservoir basin. Several extraordinary storms with maximum daily rainfall of over
      200mm didn't damage it and sound stabilization of subgrade appears to be reliable
      for safe operation of the expressway.
6.    The unavailability of counterpart funds in due time for the local roads improvement
      component resulted in the incompletion of the actual construction progress timely
      and the loan account closing date had to be extended by six months.
7.    Restricted policy and regulation on the overseas training by the central and
      provincial government shad some influence on the fully completion of some
      training programs, which was also a reason for the extension of the loan closing
      date.
8.    The using of international consultants should be formulated and implemented based
      on the project scope and the capability of the project implementation agency. It
      should emphasizes particularly on those technical and managerial fields which the
      domestic consultants are not so familiar, and avoid waste of resource by using the
      international consultant in the general fields or the fields in which the domestic
      experts have rich technical and managerial experience ( such as in the field of
      construction supervision ).
9.    It is a suggestion that the World Bank would pay more attention to the actual effect
      of the project management rather than the form of it. For instance, the frequency of
      regular project supervision mission from the World Bank would be changed from
      twice a year into once a year, except the mission particularly for some special
      supervision like the procurement supervision mission at the beginning of project
      implementation and the resettlement supervision. It is suggested the World Bank to
      provide standard formats of monthly report, semi-annual report with focus point on
      key content so as to simplify the report and thus strengthen report quality.
10.   We would also suggest the World Bank not to change the project task team
      manager (TTL) too frequently.




                                           48
Annex 10. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

Not applicable




                                    49
Annex 11. List of Supporting Documents

1. The PDO Monitoring Report on Shaanxi Ankang Highway Development Project
   (2006, 2007, 2008, 2009, 2010, 2011), the Project Management Office
2. Final Report on the Land Acquisition and Resettlement for the Shaanxi Ankang Road
   Development Project, Shaanxi Provincial Academy of Social Science, March 30,
   2012
3. Socioeconomic Impact Monitoring and Evaluation Report of the LRIP for the
   Shaanxi Ankang Road Development Project (baseline, first and second activities),
   Shaanxi Kexin Consulting Company




                                         50
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           IBRD 34725

                                                                         CHINA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Hanjiayuan
   SHAANXI ANKANG ROAD DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Gulian




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Hei
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      lon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     R U S S I A N                           F E D E R A T I O N




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           gJ
                                 CHINA’S NATIONAL EXPRESSWAY SYSTEM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ian
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             g
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Heibaoshan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Jagdagi     Aihun
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Yitulihe
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Wuyiling
                        K A Z A K H S T A N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Nenjiang
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Manzhouli                                                                                               Tonjiang
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Yakeshi                                                        Hegang
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Beian                                 Qianjin
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Hailaer         Boketu                          HEILONGJIANG                               Dongfanghong
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Qiqihar Suihua                   Nancha     Jiamusi

                                                                                                                   Altay
                                                                                                                            Fuyun                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Ranghulu                      HARBIN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Jixi                           44 °

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Ulanhot
   UZBEKISTAN                                                                         Yumin                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Daan                                                   Suifenhe
                                                                                                  Karamay                                                                                                      M O N G O L I A                                                                                                         Huolinhe                                                                            Mudanjiang
                                                                            Sailimu                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Baicheng
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Baiyinhushuo
                                                                       Huoerguosi             Wusu
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       CHANGCHUN                          Jilin                        Hunchun
                                                                                          Kuitun                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 J I L I N
                                 KYRGYZ                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           NEI MONGOL                                  Tongliao                                                 Hefong
                                                                                                   URUMQI              Dahuangshan                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Baishan         Baihe
                                 REPUBLIC                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Siping
                                                                                              Baluntai                                                                                                                                                                                        Erlianhaote         Xilinhot
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 LIAO NIN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      N IN G                                                                       40°
                                                               Aksu       Kuqa                                     Turpan                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Fushun
                                Turugart                                                                                                Hami                                                                                                                                                                                    Yuanbaoshan                           SHENYANG
TA
   J   IK                                   Kashi                                                 Korla                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Benxi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             DEM.                                 Sea of
            IS           Turkeshitan                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Anshan
                 TA                                 Bachu                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Jinzhou                                                                                Japan
                    N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Bayun Obo     Baiyinchagan                                                                                                PEOPLE'S
                                                                                 X I N J I A N G                                                                                                     Ejin Qi                                                                                                                                                                     Yinkou
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 HOHHOT Jining                                                                                                              REP. OF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Baotou                                                                                                     Fuxin Dandong
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Qinhuangdao
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            KOREA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Datong
                                                                                                                                                                                                            For detail, see                                    Dongsheng                                          BEIJINGBEIJING               Tangshan          Dalian
                                                                                                            Ruoqiang
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            TIANJIN Bo Hai                                                                                                         36°
                                                                                                                                                                            Jiayaguan
                                                                                                                                                                                                              IBRD 34726                        Wuhai
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Baoding                         TIANJIN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Shenmubei
                                                                                                                                                                                                  Zhangye                                                                                                         H EB E I         Cangzhou                                                                                REP. OF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        YINCHUAN                 Yulin
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          TAIYUAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SHIJIAZHUANG                                        Yantai Weihai                                  KOREA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Dezhou     Zibo
        Area of                                                                                                                                                                                                               Wuwei
           Map
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Zhongwei                                  Liulin                        Handan              JINAN                        Qingdao                                                                          JAPAN
                                 CHINA                                                                                                                                                                           XINING                                                                   SHANXI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Yan'anbei                                                                                                                     Yellow
                                                                                                                                                   Golmud                                                                                  NINGXIA                                                                       Anyang        S H A N D O N G Rizhao
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      LANZHOU                         SHAANXI                            Xinxiang                                                                                Sea
                                                                                                                                               QINGHAI                                                                Huang                                                                                                                       Linyi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Huangling                                                                            Lianyuang                                                                                     32°
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Luoyang                      Kaifeng                Xuzhou
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                G AN SU
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Sanmexia         ZHENGZHOU                                                       JIANGSU
                                                                                                                                                      Ton                                                                                                Tangyu           XI'AN               HENAN                                                                              Haian
                                                                         X I Z A N G                                                                     g   tian                                                                                                                                                                                   Bengbu
                                                                                                                                                         Gyegu                                                                                                                                                               Fuyang                                                        Nantong
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Nanyang                            NANJING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Ankang        Shiyan                         Xinyang       HEFEI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Xiangfan                                                                            SHANGHAI
                                                                                                                                                                                        For detail, see                                                                                                                                                          Changxing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         AN HUI                                                 SHANGHAI
                                                                                                                                                                                   IBRD 34727, 34728
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                BEI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           H UJingmen                                      Anqing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              HANGZHOU                     Ningbo                                                                  28°
                                                                                                                                                                                                             SICHUAN                                                                                                          WUHAN                                                                                           East




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Daxian                  Chang Jia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ng                Yichang                   Huangshi                                          Shaoxing




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   GQ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     CHENGDU                                                                                                                                           ZHEJIANG


                                                                                                                                                                         Lan
                                                                                                                                                                    Nu                                                                                                                                                                Jiujiang                                                                             China



                                                                                                                                                                                         Jinsha
                                                               NEPAL                                                   LHASA                                                                                                                                                                              Jingsha


                                                                                                                                                                            can




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ON
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Enshi                                                                                          Jinhua


                                                                                                                                                                               g




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             CH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          CHONGQING                                                                          NANCHANG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Sea
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Yiyang                                                                            Wenzhou
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     CHANGSHA
                                  NATIONAL HIGHWAY SYSTEM:                                                    AVIATION SYSTEM:                                                                                                          Yibin                                                          Xiangtan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Xichang                                                                                               J I A NG XI
                                     NATIONAL EXPRESSWAY SYSTEM:                                                INTERNATIONAL AIRPORTS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Huaihua          HUNAN                   Zhouzhou
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    G UI Z HOU                                       Hengyang                                             Laizhou
                                                                                                                                                                                                      Lanping                                                                                                              Chaling       Taihe                                     FUZHOU                                                                          24°
                                           EXISTING                                                             OTHER AIRPORTS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            GUIYANG                                        Yongzhou                     Leiyang
                                           UNDER CONSTRUCTION                                                                                                                                         Panshihua                                                                                                                      Ganzhou           FUJIAN
                                                                                                              ADMINISTRATION:                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Quanzhou
                                           PLANNED “7918?:                                                                                                                                            Dali                                                                                                                                 Longyan
                                                                                                                SELECTED CITIES                                                                                                                                                               Guilin        Pingshi
                                            LINKS TO BEIJING                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Gantang         Zhangzhou   Xiamen
                                                                                                                                                                                            Baoshan                           KUNMING                                  G U A N G X I                                                                                                        TAIWAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            TAIWAN
                                                                                                                PROVINCE CAPITALS                                                                                                                           Shuiren
                                            NORTH–SOUTH CORRIDORS                                                                                                          Ruili    Nu
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Zhao'an
                                                                                                                                                                                                   YUNNAN                                                               Hechi        Liuzhou                     GUANGDONG
                                                                                                                NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                                  Yuxi                                    Xinxu
                                            EAST–WEST CORRIDORS                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Guping               Wuzhou            GUANGZHOU                       Shangtou
                                                                                                                PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
                        LHASA     TERMINAL CITIES                                                                                                                                                                                                                        NANNING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Shenzhen
                                                                                                                                                                                                  Lan




                                                                                                                INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                                                                                                                                            Zhuhai                                                                                                                                         20°
                                                                                                                                                                                                     can




                                                                                                                                                                                                             Simao                                                                            Yulin                                    Kowloon
                                                                                                                                                                                                        g




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Foshan
                                                                                                                                                                              MYANMAR




                                  NATIONAL WATERWAYS SYSTEM:                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Qinzhou                                  MACAO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Pingxiang Fangcheng                                                                  HONG KONG
                                     MAJOR NAVIGABLE WATERWAYS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Maomi           MACAO
                                                                                                                                                                                                               Shangyong              VIETNAM                                    Beihai
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      HONG KONG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0     100    200 300 Kilometers
                                     MAJOR RIVERS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Zhanjiang

                                     OTHER RIVERS
                                                                                          This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                                                                                                                                                                     LAO PEOPLE'S                                                                                                   HAIKOU                                                                                                                      0           100    200      300 Miles
                                     RIVER PORTS                                          The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information                              DEM. REP.                                                                           Basuo
                                                                                          shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                                     SEA PORTS                                            Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any                   THAILAND                                                                                               HAINAN                                                                                                           PHILIPPINES
                                                                                          endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       108°                                      112°                                     116°                                    120°                                     124°
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Sanya
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              JUNE 2006
                          RUSSIAN
                        FEDERATION                                                                                                      ELEVATIONS IN METERS:                                                                                                    109°                                                  110°                                                      111°
                                                                                                                                                      4000
                                                                                            HEILONGJIANG
                                                                                                                                                      3000                                                                                                                                                         This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                                                                                                                                                      2000
              MONGOLIA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                                                                                             JILIN
                                                                                                                                                      1500
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
                                                                                                                                                      1000
                                                                                                               Sea of
                                                  O         L                                                  Japan                                  500
                                               NG                                 LIAONING
                                         I   MO                                                    D.P.R. OF                                          200
                                      NE              BEIJING                                       KOREA
                                                      BEIJING
                                                                          TIANJIN
                                                                HEBEI                                     REP. OF
                                                                                             Yellow       KOREA
                          NINGXIA




                                                                                                                                                                                 SHAANXI
                                             SHANXI
                                                                    SHANDONG
                                                                                              Sea                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Hiqu
                  GANSU
                                                                                JI A


                              SHAANXI              HENAN                                                    East
                                                                                    N
                                                                                     G


                                                                        ANHUI
                                                                                      SU



                                                                                                           China
                                                                                             SHANGHAI
                                                                                                            Sea                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Fugu




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Kuy
                                                  HUBEI
                                       G
                                     IN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       He
             SICHUAN                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           39°
                                    Q




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       )
                                                                                  ZHEJIANG




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               eH
                                NG




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 39°




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ( Huang
                               O




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  e
                             CH




                                                                   JIANGXI
                                              HUNAN

                          GUIZHOU                                            FUJIAN                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Shengmu




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             er
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Yellow Riv
            YUNNAN                                                                           TAIWAN
                                    GUANGXI                 GUANGDONG                                       PACIFIC
                                                                     HONG KONG
                                                                                                            OCEAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      HUBEI




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Tu
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Yu




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           w
                                                                  MACAO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      l




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ei
                        VIETNAM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     in
             LAO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  He




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          He
              P.D.R.
                                           HAINAN                                                         PHILIPPINES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Yulin

                                                                 CHINA                                                                               107°
                                                                                                                                                                                                         108°
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       210
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Hong l
                  SHAANXI ANKANG ROAD                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     i u He
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Jia Xian                                                              38°

                   DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Hengshan

                         SHAANXI PROVINCE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Mizhi




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              e
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      307




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Lu H
                     TRANSPORT INFRASTRUCTURE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Zizhou
                                                                                                                                                                                              Dingbian
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Lingshen                              Jingbian                   Shiwan                                                                 Wubu
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Suide u
                                      ANKANG – MAOBA EXPRESSWAY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  di
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ng
                                      EXPRESSWAY SECTIONS FINANCED BY THE BANK




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       He
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Yan
                                     NATIONAL HIGHWAY SYSTEM:                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Zichang                                   Qingjian




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         He
                                           NATIONAL EXPRESSWAY SYSTEM:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         37°
                                              EXISTING “7918?                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             210
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Wuqi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Ansai                                     Yanchuan
                                              UNDER CONSTRUCTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Lu
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Zhidan                                                                                                         SHANXI
                       319                   NATIONAL HIGHWAY SYSTEM                                                                                                                                                                     He
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Yan'an
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Yanchang
                                           SECONDARY ROADS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Yan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             He
                                     RAILROADS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Hu
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               lu
                                     NATIONAL WATERWAYS SYSTEM:                                                                                                                                                                                                          Gangquan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    He




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Yellow River
                                           MAJOR NAVIGABLE WATERWAYS

                                           OTHER RIVERS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Yichuan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                309                                                                                            36°
                                     AVIATION SYSTEM:                                                                                                                        GANSU                                                                                           Fu Xian




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   (Hu
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ang
                                           AIRPORTS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Huaishuzhuang




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           He)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Shangzhenzi                                         Luochuan
                                     ADMINISTRATION:                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Huangling
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Huanglong
                                           SELECTED CITIES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Hancheng
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Luo H




                                           PROVINCE CAPITAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Yijun
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               e




                                           PREFECTURE BOUNDARIES

                                           PROVINCE BOUNDARIES                                                                                                                                    Changwu                                                                                                                               Heyang
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Baishui
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Xunyi              S                                                                Chengcheng
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Tongchuan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  h ic




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ua                                                                                                                                                      35°
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      h




                                                                                                                                                                                                                Bin Xian                                    n                         Pucheng
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                He




                                                                                                                                                                                                                               211
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Jin




                                                                                                                                               Long Xian                                                                                                                 Yao Xian
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    g




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               310
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       He




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Chunhua                       Fuping                                        Dali
                                                                                                                                              Qi




                                                                                                                                                an
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Yongshou
                                                                                                                                                                  Qianyang
                                                                                                                                                     He




                                                                                                                                                                                                  Linyou                                                                                                                   He
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Yun Yang                                                                     Wei

                                                                                                                                                                                  Fengxiang                                                 Jingyang                                 Weinan
                                                                                           Wei e
                                                                                              H                                                                                                 Famensi
                                                                                                                                                                                         Qishan                                                                                                                                    Tongguan
                                                                                                                                                   Baoji
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Xianyang
                                                                                                                                               310
                                                                                                                                                                      Guozhen                                                                                                           Lintong
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 HENAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                        Jiangzhang                                                   XI'AN           Lamtian
                                                                                                                               ng




                                                                                                                                                                                            Tangyu                 Zhouzhi                                             Changan
                                                                                                                           J ia




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Luonan
            34°                                                                                                           ng                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   34°
                                                                                                                                                                             Taibai
                                                                                                                      li
                                                                                                                  Jia




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Sanyaosi
                                                                                                                          Feng Xian                                                                                                                                                                                           Shangchou
                                                                                                                                                                                      Houzhenzi
                                                                                                                                                     i
                                                                                                                                                 sh u




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Danfeng
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Shagoujie
                                                                                                                                                Bao




                                                                                                                                                                                                     108
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Zhashui
                                                                                                                                                                       He




                                                                                                                                   Liuba                                                                                                                                                                                                                          312
                                                                                                                                                                  ui
                                                                                                                                                                  sh




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Shanyang
                                                                                                                                                                 Xu




                                                                                                                      e                       316                                                            Fuoping                                                                                                                                                       Shangnan
                                                                                                               H




                                                                                                                  i                                                                                                                                                                                            Sehepu
                                                                                            Lueyang          He                                                                                                                                                 Zhengan                                                                           Tumen
                                                                                                                                                                                              108
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Ningshan                                                                                               Manchuanguon                                Xianghe
                                                                                                                                                                            Yang Xian



            33°                                                                                                                                            Hanzhong                                                    Shiquan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               33°
                                                                                             108                           Nanzheng
                                                                                                                                                                                            Xixiang
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Hanyin
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   H an
                                                                                                                                                                                  He




                                                                                                     Ningqiang                                                                   ma                                                                                                                316
                                                                                                                                                                            Mu                                            ui
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Sh




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Xunyang                     Baihe
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         i
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              H a n S hu
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Ankang
                                                                                                                                                                  Beiba
                                                                                                                                                                                                      Zhengba
                                                                                                     He




                                                                                                     g                                                                                                                                    Ziyang                                        Pingli
                                                                                              D   on
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        HUBEI
                                                  ng
                                              Jialing Jia




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Langao
                                                                         SICHUAN
                                                                                                                                                     Dang Shui
                                                                                                                                  Nan Jiang




            32°                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0               25                      50             75                   32°
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Zhenping
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       KILOMETERS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     IBRD 34726




                                                                                                                                                                                                                  For Detail, see
JUNE 2006




                                                                                                                                                                                                                   IBRD 34727
                                                                         106°                                                                 107°                                                    108°                                                            109°                                                      110°                                                                        111°
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           IBRD 34727
                                      RUSSIAN

KAZAKHSTAN
                                    FEDERATION                                                                                                                                                                            CHINA                                                                                             PROVINCE CAPITAL

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PREFECTURE BOUNDARIES


                                                                                                                                                                            SHAANXI ANKANG ROAD DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
                                                                                                         HEILONGJIANG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
                                        MONGOLIA
                                                                                                            JILIN
                                                                                                                                  Sea                                                                                                                                                                                                                    HUBEI

                                                                                                                                                                                       ANKANG – MAOBA EXPRESSWAY COMPONENT
                                                                                        OL                                        of
KYRGYZ                                                                                 G
                                                                                    ON                 LIAONING     D.P.R. OF J a p a n
  REP.                                                                        M
              XINJIANG
                                                                    NE
                                                                       I
                                                                                  BEIJING
                                                                                                                     KOREA                                                                                                                                                                                                     NINGXIA
                                                                            BEIJING
                                                                                 HEBEI
                                                                                       TIANJIN                       REP. OF      JAPAN
                                                                                                                                                            PROPOSED ANKANG – MAOBA EXPRESSWAY                                                                                                                                                           SHAANXI




                                                                           SHANXI
                                                                                                                     KOREA




                                                     NINGXIA
                                                                                           SHANDONG Yellow                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SHANXI
                              QINGHAI                                                                        Sea                                            FUTURE EXTENSION OF THE EXPRESSWAY TO BE DECIDED
                                                                                                   JIANGSU
                                              GANSU SHAANXI HENAN                                                                                                                                                          EXISTING ROADS:                                          SELECTED TOWNS
                                                                                                             SHANGHAI E a s t                               BRIDGES                                                                                                                                                                             GANSU
                                                                                               ANHUI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              EXPRESSWAYS                                           RIVERS
                                                                   G
                  XIZANG                                                    HUBEI


                                                                IN
                                           SICHUAN                                                       ZHEJIANG         China
                                                                Q                                                                                           TUNNELS
                                                               NG




                                                                                                  XI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              NATIONAL HIGHWAYS
                                                        O

                                                                                                                            Sea




                                                                                                NG
                                                      CH



                                                                           HUNAN                                                                                                                                                                                                    PROVINCE BOUNDARY


                                                                                             JIA
                                                        GUIZHOU                                    FUJIAN
                                                                                                                                                            INTERCHANGES                                                      PROVINCIAL HIGHWAYS
         National Capital                                                                                  TAIWAN
                                         YUNNAN                                       GUANGDONG
                                                                GUANGXI                                              Philippine
         Province Boundaries                                                                                                                                SERVICE AREAS                                                  RAILROADS
                                                                                             HONG KONG
                                                                                                                          Sea                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    XI'AN
         International Boundaries                      VIETNAM
                                                                                           MACAO                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            HENAN
                                             LAO
               Bay       of
                                            P.D.R.                  HAINAN                                                                                  PARKING ZONES
              B e n g a l                                                                                           PHILIPPINES



 This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
 The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
 shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
 Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        HUBEI
 endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SICHUAN               Area of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Map



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SHAANXI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PROVINCE




                                                                                                                                                                                                               Ha
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Hengkou




                                                                                                                                                                                                                 nS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                K2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    hui




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     10
                                                                                                                                                                                           JIAJIAPING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   QILIGOU
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Haophe
                                                                                                                                                           K280




                                                                                                                                                                                                               60
                                                                                                                                                  Pailou
                                                                                                                                                                                K270




                                                                                                                                                                                                           K2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Wuli




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            K220
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Ziyang




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               K2
                                                                                                                                             Gaotan




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                15
                                                                                                                                K29




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    00
                                                                                                       Daba                                                                                                                                                                                                     K2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            K240
                                                                                                                                  0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    35
                                                                                                   Maoba                                                                                Bajiao                                                                           Liushui




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   K2
                                                                                                                                                                                                               50




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 K225
                                                                                                                                          DABA




                                                                                                                                                                                                           K2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         STARTING POINT OF
    Zihuanggou                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ROUTE K201+700
                                        Maliu                                K300

                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Donghe
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Ankang                 Han Sh
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 u
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 LINHE




                                                                                SICHUAN
         To Daxian
                                                                                PROVINCE                                                                                                                                             0                  5       10

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   KILOMETERS


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            AUGUST 2006
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         IBRD 34728


32°45'N
                                                                                                                                                                              H a nyin                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 CHINA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SHAANXI ANKANG ROAD DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
                                                                   Hanyin                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      LOCAL ROADS IMPROVEMENT COMPONENT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1 List of Roads under LRIP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                15                                                Number County Description                Road Level   Length         Class                                     Number    County    Description                                Road Level          Length           Class
                                                                                                                                                                                     4                                                                                                               12                                           1        Hanbin Kuqian Road              District     41.604         IV                                        55        Ziyang    Maowa Road                                 Town                15.50            IV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               13
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  2        Hanbin Haoliu Road              District     21.282         IV                                        56        Ziyang    Maolian Road                               Town                10.048           IV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                8                                       11                        3        Hanbin Sangzheng Road           District     13.365         IV                                        57        Ziyang    Gaorao Road                                Town                17.70            IV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          14
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          10
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Ankang             4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Hanbin Hongniu Road
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Hanbin Dalin Road
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Hanbin Xiangshan Road
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           District
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Town
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Town
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        31.73
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        27.00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        7.20
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       IV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Deleted
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       IV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 58
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 59
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 60
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Ziyang
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Ziyang
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Ziyang
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Gaobai Road
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Gaowan Road
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Banjie Road
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Town
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Town
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Town
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    11.10
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    14.04
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    14.60
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     IV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     IV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     IV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            28             7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     18
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      6         17
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Hanbin                                                  7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Hanbin Nanying Road
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Hanbin Daxiang Road
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Town
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Village
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        12.079
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        19.00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       IV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Non
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 61
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 62
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Ziyang
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Ziyang
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Hongshang Road
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Yunfeng Road
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Town
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Village
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    14.30
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    6.00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     IV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Non
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  9        Hanbin Xinbatielu Road          Village      15.37          Non                                       63        Ziyang    Xianglu Road                               Village             7.50             Non
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       3                                                                                                                          10       Hanbin Qixin Road               Village      10.00          Non                                       64        Ziyang    Lianfeng Road                              Village             5.00             Non
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 16                                                      HUI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 21                                                                                 HAN S                         11       Hanbin Wangkanzi Road           Village      12.00          Non                                       65        Ziyang    Shijia Road                                Village             5.02             Non
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1                                                           12       Hanbin Baimashi Road            Village      12.93          Non                                       66        Ziyang    Paotai Road                                Village             10.00            Non
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  13       Hanbin Shuangping Road          Village      13.00          Non                                       67        Ziyang    Tianchang Road                             Village             2.16             Non
                                                                                                                                  HA                                                                                                                                                                                                              14       Hanbin Bailongquan Road         Village      19.06          Non                                       68        Ziyang    Xinma Road                                 Village             4.00             Non
                                                                                                                                    NS
                                                                                                                                      HU                                                                                                                                                                                                          15       Hanbin Yongqing Road            Village      7.00           Non                                       69        Ziyang    Xingqing Road                              Village             11.13            Non
                                                                                                                                        I                                                                                                                                                                                                         16       Hanbin Xiangshan Road           Village      9.50           Non                                       70        Ziyang    Tangmogouzi Road                           Village             5.00             Non
                                                                                                                       99                                                                                                                                                                                                                         17       Hanbin Zhonggou Road            Village      5.99           Non                                       71        Ziyang    Nanmu Road                                 Village             6.20             Non
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   2             20             23
                                                                                                                                                                                    71
           HANZHONG                                                                                                          73
                                                                                                                                      98
                                                                                                                                                                   66                                                                                22         19
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  18
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  19
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  20
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Hanbin Sanping Road
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Hanbin Yugong Road
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Hanbin Zhouwan Road
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Village
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Village
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Village
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        13.76
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        8.93
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        14.00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Non
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Non
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Non
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 72
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 73
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 74
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Ziyang
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Ziyang
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Ziyang
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Jiaping Road
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Wahei Road
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Chefeng Road
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Village
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Village
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Village
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    3.18
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    16.15
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    12.00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Non
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Non
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Non
                                                                                                                                       70                                                                                        24                                                  29                                                           21       Hanbin Niushan Road             Village      15.88          Non                                       75        Ziyang    Huoya Road                                 Village             7.00             Non
            REFE
          P REF ECT URE
                 CTURE                                                   61
                                                                                                                       75                                          Ziyang                     49
                                                                                                                                                                                                   62
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                25
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  22
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  23
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Hanbin Mani Village Road
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Hanbin Huaishu Road
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Village
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Village
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        14.01
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        9.02
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Non
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Non
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 76
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 77
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Ziyang
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Ziyang
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Jinpen Road
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Yuanqiang Road
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Village
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Village
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    10.13
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    10.00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Non
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Non
                                                                                                                                              68                                                                                                                                                                                                  24       Hanbin Taiping Road             Village      10.03          Non                                       78        Ziyang    Dazhong Road                               Village             9.00             Non
                                                                                                                                      72                                                                 40                                26
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          27                                                                                      25       Hanbin Liangtian Road           Village      12.01          Non                                       79        Ziyang    Jiming Road                                Village             11.15            Non
32°30'N                                                                                                                                                                                  67         53                                                                                                                                            26       Hanbin Gaojialiang Road         Village      18.98          Non                                       80        Ziyang    Tianshengqiao Road                         Village             7.10             Non
                                                                                                            77                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    27       Hanbin Qunya Road               Village      13.09          Non                                       81        Ziyang    Hejiabu Road                               Village             10.00            Non
                                                                         Ziyang                                             76                                      69                                   65                                           9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  28
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  29
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Hanbin Hongyang Road
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Hanbin Yudu Road
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Village
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Village
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        20.00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        15.44
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Non
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Non
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 82
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 83
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Ziyang
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Ziyang
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Quanhe Road
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Lancao Road
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Village
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Village
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    5.00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    6.00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Non
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Non
                                                                                                                                                                               63
                                                                                                  80                                                                                                     44                                                                                                                                       30       Langao Landa Road               County       45.075         IV                                        84        Ziyang    Shenmo Road                                Village             14.50            Non
                                                     108                                                    79              48                                                                                                         35
                                                                                                                                              74                                                                  38                                                                                                                                              Land Road Rehabitation                31.5           IV                                        85        Ziyang    Gaotan Road                                Village             5.13             Non
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  31       Langao Minheng Road             County       47.324         IV                                        86        Ziyang    Longhu Road                                Village             3.14             Non
                                                                                                                                                                                                   64
                                                                              86             88
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  32       Langao Daguan Road              County       46.268         IV                                        87        Ziyang    Daba Road                                  Village             4.19             Non
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            45                                                                                                                    33       Langao Shiguan Road             County       15.074         IV                                        88        Ziyang    Pailou Road                                Village             5.00             Non
                                                         59
                                                                                                                                      78                                                                                                                                                                                                          34       Langao Tiemiao Road             Town         12.42          Non                                       89        Ziyang    Sanping Road                               Village             5.00             Non


                         95                                   87
                                                                     85
                                                                                                                                               ANKANG PREFECTURE                                                                                          34
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  35
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  36
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  37
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Langao Fenghong Road
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Langao Xinxi Road
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Langao Yuehong Road
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Village
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Village
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Village
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        7.98
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        6.03
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        10.01
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Non
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Non
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Non
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 90
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 91
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 92
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Ziyang
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Ziyang
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Ziyang
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Maoxin Road
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Rangou Road
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Desheng Road
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Village
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Village
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Village
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    18.00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    6.12
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    6.12
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Non
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Non
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Non
                                                                                                   82                            81                                                                                                                                                                                                               38       Langao Liulin Road              Village      6.03           Non                                       93        Ziyang    Watan Road                                 Village             5.01             Non
                                                                    48                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            39       Langao Shizi Road               Village      6.02           Non                                       94        Ziyang    Luzhu Road                                 Village             10.00            Non
                                         92              58                              89                                                             84               50                                                                                                                                                                       40       Langao Dachun Road              Village      10.03          Non                                       95        Ziyang    Anping Road                                Village             6.00             Non
                               96                                                                      83
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      36                                                                          41       Langao Guanbei Road             Village      10.00          Non                                       96        Ziyang    Laozhuang Road                             Village             10.00            Non
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 47              46                                                                                                               42       Langao Huatai Road              Village      8.02           Non                                       97        Ziyang    Yantang Road                               Village             6.11             Non
                    55              93                                        90
                                                                                        57                                                         52
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Pin g li           43
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  44
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Langao Qiba Road
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Langao Mogou Road
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Village
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Village
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        4.80
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        4.60
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Non
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Non
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 98
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 99
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Ziyang
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Ziyang
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Lazhu Road
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Dalian Road
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Village
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Village
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    4.00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    7.12
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Non
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Non
                                                         91                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       45       Langao Xingfu Road              Village      6.05           Non                                       100       Ziyang    Hongmiao Road                              Village             7.12             Non
                                                                                                  101             54                                                                                                                                      39
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  46       Langao Xinhua Road              Village      5.15           Non                                       101       Ziyang    Duanjiagou Road                            Village             4.16             Non
                    97                                                                                                                                                                                                                 42                                  30                                                                     47       Langao Tuanyuan Road            Village      6.28           Non                                       102       Ziyang    Liangan Road                               Village             19.26            Non
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  48       Ziyang Yuzi Road                Province     74.050         III/IV                                    103       Ziyang    Chenhai Road                               Village             3.01             Non
                                                                                                                                                                                                    52                                                                                                                                            49       Ziyang Gunsan Road              County       15.58          IV                                        104       Ziyang    Shuyan Road                                Village             7.02             Non
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      37                                                                          50       Ziyang Dongshuang Road          County       34.92          IV                                        105       Ziyang    Qingyan Road                               Village             5.30             Non
              104
                     105                                      56                                                                                             107                                                                                                                                                                                  51       Ziyang Waliao Road              County       38.00          Deleted                                   106       Ziyang    Shuimo Road                                Village             7.11             Non
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      43                                                                                                          52       Ziyang Quanhui Road             County       80.12          IV                                        107       Ziyang    Shuangliu Road                             Village             11.15            Non
                                                    94                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            53       Ziyang Dongda Road              Town         10.51          IV                                        108       Ziyang    Chaowan Road                               Village             11.50            Non
                                                                               102                                                                                                                                                    32                                                       Langao                                             54       Ziyang Gaotie Road              Town         14.40          IV
                                                                                                                 100                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Total: 106 roads for a total length of 1,391.75 km
                                                                                         103
                                                                                                                                                                                    60

32°15'N                       106
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PROVINCE CAPITAL                                                                                      This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           33                                                                                                                                                                                             The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PREFECTURE BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PROVINCE BOUNDARIES                                                                                   Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       41                                                            Langao                                                                     INNNER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               MONGOLIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          NINGXIA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         S H A N X I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           RU SSI A N F EDER ATI O N

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SHAANXI
                         SICHUAN                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     31
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          K A Z A K H STA N                                                                                                         HEILONGJIANG


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               MO N GO LI A                                                              JILIN                      S ea
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           GANSU                                                                                                                                                            L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Ja p a n
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         KYRGYZ REP.                                                                                N     GO                   LIAONING          D.P.R. OF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 MO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               XINJIANG                                                    NEI                  BEIJING                           KOREA
                                         108°15'E                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           BEIJING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          TIANJIN                  REP. OF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           HEBEI




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SHANXI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   KOREA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           NINGXIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SHANDONG                                   JAPAN
              WORLD BANK FINANCED ROADS                                              RAILROADS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     QINGHAI
              UNDER LRIP




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               JIANGSU




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               AN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       GANSU
                                                                                     TOWNSHIP SEATS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             XI'AN                                                                                                                SHAANXI         HENAN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             NA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SHANGHAI




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            EN
              EXPRESSWAYS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ANHUI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     East
                                                                                     COUNTY CAPITALS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                HUBEI




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          HE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  XIZANG




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ING
                                                                                                                                                             CHONGQING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ZHEJIANG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SICHUAN                                                                            China




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          H




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      GQ
              NATIONAL HIGHWAYS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ON




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      GXI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Sea




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               CH
                                                                                     PREFECTURE CAPITAL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    JIAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  HUNAN                      FUJIAN
              PROVINCIAL ROADS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     NATIONAL CAPITAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               GUIZHOU
                                                                                     COUNTY BOUNDARIES                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                TAIWAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Area of                                                                                        YUNNAN                  GUANGXI                 GUANGDONG                               Philippine
              COUNTY ROADS                                                                                                                                               0                    5               10 Kilometers                                                                                                                                                     Map                                                PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
                                                                                     PREFECTURE BOUNDARIES                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    HUBEI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     HONG KONG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 MACAO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Sea

              TOWNSHIP ROADS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                          LAO VIETNAM
                                                                                     PROVINCE BOUNDARIES                                   108°30'E                                                                                             108°45'E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SICHUAN                                                                                        Bay of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    P.D.R.      HAINAN                                                  PHILIPPINES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              B e n g a l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        CHONGQING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     DECEMBER 2012
