Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 4853-CHA 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Shaanxi Ankang Road Development Project) 
 
between 
 
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated May 28, 2007 
 
Page  2
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated May 28, 2007
,
between PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 
(“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”).  The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
–
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in the Loan 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II 
–
LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of three hundred million Dollars 
($300,000,000) to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
 
2.03. 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to three-fourths 
of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance, subject 
to any waiver of a portion of such charge as may be determined by the Bank from 
time to time. 
 
2.04. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one percent (1%) of 
the Loan amount, subject to any waiver of a portion of such fee as may be 
determined by the Bank from time to time.  The Borrower shall pay the  
Front-end Fee not later than sixty (60) days after the Effective Date. 
 
2.05. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread, subject to any 
waiver of a portion of such interest as may be determined by the Bank from time 
to time. 
 
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are May 15 and November 15 in each year. 
 
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
Page  3
-
2
-
ARTICLE III 
–
PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this 
end, the Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to carry out the 
Project in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV –
 
EFFECTIVENESS
 
4.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE V –
 
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
5.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is the Minister of Finance. 
 
5.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
Sanlihe 
Beijing 100820 
People’s Republic of China 
 
Facsimile:  
 
(86-10) 6855-1125 
 
5.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) 
or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
Page  4
-
3
-
AGREED at Beijing,
 People’s Republic of China, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 
 
By Yang 
Shaolin 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By David 
Dollar 
Authorized Representative 
Page  5
-
4
-
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in improving passenger and 
freight traffic flows in an efficient and safe manner along the corridor from Ankang to the 
village of Maoba in Shaanxi Province by: (i) enhancing road infrastructure capacity and 
network integration along the corridor Ankang-Maoba; (ii) increasing accessibility to 
markets and social services for the lower-income families in rural areas of Ankang; and 
(iii) strengthening Shaanxi Provincial Transportation Department
’s capacity in managing 
the increasing number of kilometers of roads under its responsibility in the Shaanxi 
Province.  
 
The Project consists of the following parts: 
 
Part A
:
Ankang–Maoba Expressway
Construction of a new four-lanes expressway of about 87 km connecting Ankang 
City and Maoba City, including construction of relevant ancillary buildings, acquisition 
and installation of the relevant electrical and mechanical facilities, and technical 
assistance for construction supervision thereof. 
 
Part B
:
Local Roads Improvement Program
Rehabilitation of about 1480 kilometers of existing interconnection roadways 
between provincial, county and village roads in the rural areas surrounding the corridor 
Ankang-Maoba Expressway under Part A of the Project, including technical assistance 
for construction supervision thereof. 
 
Part C
:
Institutional Strengthening Program
Carrying out of an institutional strengthening program for SPCD and Ankang 
Communications Bureau, including:  
 
(i) 
carrying out of impact evaluation and monitoring studies to measure 
impacts on the socio-economic and transport conditions in Ankang City 
of the Local Roads Improvement Program under Part B of the Project; 
 
(ii) 
acquisition of road-condition measuring equipment to strengthen SPCD’s 
information on road conditions, including technical assistance in the use 
of this equipment and for incorporating the information generated into 
SPCD’s pavement management system; and  
 
Page  6
-
5
-
(iii) 
training for staff of the SPCD and the Ankang Communications Bureau, 
building on training carried out under previous Bank-financed projects in 
Shaanxi Province, focusing primarily on highway management, 
planning, and evaluation, mechanisms for contracting-out maintenance 
works, pavement design and technologies, and safety in highways and 
tunnels. 
 
Page  7
-
6
-
SCHEDULE 2
 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Financing Arrangement; Institutional and Other Arrangements
A.
 
Financing Arrangements. 
 
1.
 
The Borrower shall make available the proceeds of the Loan to the Project 
Implementing Entity, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, and the 
following principal terms:  
 
(i) 
The principal amount shall be made available in Dollars (determined on 
the date, or respective dates, of withdrawal from the Loan Account) of 
the value of the currency or currencies so withdrawn.   
 
(ii) 
The principal amount so made available shall be recovered over a period 
of twenty (20) years, inclusive of a grace period of five (5) years. 
 
(iii) 
Interest shall be charged on such principal amount withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time at a rate equal to the rate of interest 
applicable from time to time to the Loan pursuant to the provisions of 
Section 2.05 of this Agreement. 
 
(iv) 
Commitment Charge and Front-end Fee shall be charged at a rate equal 
to the rate paid by the Borrower to the Bank pursuant to Sections 2.03 
and 2.04 of this Agreement, respectively. 
 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting, Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports.   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare 
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General 
Conditions and on the basis of the indicators set forth in Annex 1 to this Schedule.  Each 
Project Report shall cover the period of one (1) calendar semester, and shall be furnished 
to the Bank not later than two (2) months after the end of the period covered by such 
report. Each such Project Report shall include also information on the progress in the 
implementation of the Maoba-Bashan Expressway, in particular relating to the 
implementation of the Maoba-Bashan Expressway RAP and the mitigating measures 
under the Maoba-Bashan Expresway EIA. 
 
Page  8
-
7
-
2. 
For purposes of Section 5.08(c) of the General Conditions, the report on the 
execution of the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall be 
furnished to the Bank not later six (6) months after the Closing Date. 
 
B.
 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits.   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General Conditions. 
 
2. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 5.09(b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the Financial 
Statements shall cover the period of one (1) fiscal year of the Borrower.  The audited 
Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than  
six (6) months after the end of such period.   
 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. General.
 
1.
 Goods 
and 
Works
.
All goods and works required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with 
the provisions of this Schedule. 
 
2.
 
Consultants’ Services
.
All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines and 
with the provisions of this Schedule.   
 
3. 
Definitions
.
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts 
refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement Guidelines, or 
Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works. 
 
1.
 
International and National Competitive Bidding
.
Except as otherwise 
provided in paragraph 2 below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding. The provisions of  
paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Procurement Guidelines and Appendix 2 thereto shall 
apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower (other than goods 
manufactured in the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region or the Macau Special 
Administrative Region of the Borrower). 
 
Page  9
-
8
-
2.
 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works
.
(a) 
The following table specifies the methods of procurement, other than 
International and National Competitive Bidding, which may be used for goods and 
works.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances under which such methods 
may be used. 
 
Procurement Method
(a)  National Competitive Bidding 
(b) Force Account 
(c) Shopping 
(b) 
The procedures to be followed for National Competitive Bidding shall be 
those set forth in the Law on Tendering and Bidding of the People’s Republic of China 
promulgated by Order No.21 of the President of the People’s Republic of China on 
August 30, 1999, with the following clarifications required for compliance with the 
Guidelines: 
 
(i) 
All invitations to prequalify or to bid shall be advertised in a 
newspaper of national circulation in the Borrower’s country, 
except for civil works contracts that are estimated cost less than 
$2,000,000 equivalent each and for goods contracts that are 
estimated to cost less than $300,000 equivalent each, which may 
be advertised in a provincial daily newspaper. Such 
advertisement shall be made in sufficient time for prospective 
bidders to obtain prequalification or bidding documents and 
prepare and submit their responses.  In any event, a minimum of 
thirty (30) days shall be given to bidders between the date of 
advertisement in such newspaper and the deadline for 
submission of bids, and the advertisement and bidding 
documents shall specify the deadline for such submission.   
 
(ii) 
Qualification requirements of bidders and the method of 
evaluating the qualification of each bidder shall be specified in 
detail in the bidding documents. 
 
(iii) 
All bidders that meet the qualification criteria set out in the pre-
qualification document shall be allowed to bid and there shall be 
no limit on the number of pre-qualified bidders. 
 
(iv) 
All bidders shall be required to provide security in an amount 
sufficient to protect the Borrower or the Project Implementing 
Entity, as the case may be, in case of breach of contract by the 
Page  10
-
9
-
contractor, and the bidding documents shall specify the required 
form and amount of such security.    
 
(v) 
Bidders will be allowed to submit bids by mail or by hand. The 
time for opening of all bids shall be the same as the deadline for 
receipt of such bids. 
 
(vi) 
All bids shall be opened in public; all bidders shall be offered an 
opportunity to be present (either in person or through their 
representatives) at the time of bid opening, but bidders shall not 
be required to be present at the bid opening. 
 
(vii) 
All bid evaluation criteria shall be disclosed in the bidding 
documents and quantified in monetary terms or expressed in the 
form of pass/fail requirements. 
 
(viii) 
No bid may be rejected solely on the basis that the bid price falls 
outside any standard contract estimate, or margin or bracket of 
average bids established by the Borrower or the Project 
Implementing Entity, as the case may be. 
 
(ix) 
Each contract shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated 
responsive bidder, that is, the bidder who meets the appropriate 
standards of capability and resources and whose bid has been 
determined: (A) to be substantially responsive to the bidding 
documents; and (B) to offer the lowest evaluated cost. The 
winning bidder shall not be required, as a condition of award, to 
undertake responsibilities for work not stipulated in the bidding 
documents or otherwise to modify the bid as originally 
submitted. 
 
(x) 
Each contract financed with the proceeds of the Loan shall 
provide that the suppliers and contractors shall permit the Bank, 
at its request, to inspect their accounts and records relating to the 
performance of the contract and to have said accounts and 
records audited by auditors appointed by the Bank. 
 
(xi) 
Government owned enterprises in the Borrower;s country may 
be permitted to bid or submit a proposal of goods and works if 
they can establish that they: (i) are legally and financially 
autonomous; (ii) operate under commercial law; and (iii) are not 
a
dependent agency of the agency conducting the procurement. 
 
Page  11
-
10
-
(xii) 
Re-bidding should not be allowed solely because the number of 
bids is less than three (3). 
 
(c) 
Use of force account for civil works shall be permissible only under  
Part B of the Project when: (i) works are small and scattered or in remote locations for 
which qualified contractors are unlikely to bid at reasonable price; and (ii) the aggregate 
value of the works under force account shall not exceed $7,500,000 equivalent. 
 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services. 
 
1.
 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
.
Except as otherwise provided in 
 
paragraph 2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on 
the basis of Quality- and Cost-based Selection.
 
2.
 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
.
The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality- and Cost-based Selection, 
which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the 
circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method
(a) Selection based on Consultant’s Qualifications 
(b) Individual Consultant 
D.
 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions.
 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise determine by notice to the Borrower, the 
following contracts shall be subject to Prior Review by the Bank: (a) each contract for 
works and goods procured under ICB procedures regardless of their estimated cost; (b) 
each contract for works procured under NCB procedures estimated to cost the equivalent 
of US$5,000,000 or more; (c) each contract for goods procured under NCB estimated to 
cost the equivalent of US$300,000 or more; (d) the first contract for works and the first 
contract for goods in each Borrower’s fiscal year procured under shopping procedures 
regardless of its contract cost; (e) the first works done under force account in each 
Borrower’s fiscal year regardless of its cost; (f) each contract for consultants’ services 
estimated to cost the equivalent of US$100,000
 
or more for firms; and (g) each contract 
for consultants’ services estimated to cost the equivalent of US$50,000 or more for 
individuals.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
 
Page  12
-
11
-
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. General. 
 
 
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by 
notice to the Borrower to finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in 
paragraph 2 below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the amounts of 
the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible 
Expenditures in each Category inclusive of taxes. 
 
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(in USD) 
Percentage of 
Expenditures 
to be financed 
(1) Civil Works: 
 
 
(a)  under Part A of the Project 
255,880,000 
50% 
(b) under Part B of the Project 
40,000,000 
87% 
(2) Consultants’ services 
1,720,000 
100% 
(3) Training 
1,000,000 
100% 
(4) Goods  
650,000 
50%
 
(5) Unallocated  
750,000 
 
Total 
 
300,000,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period.   
 
1.
 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section no withdrawal shall be 
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals up 
to an aggregate amount not to exceed $15,000,000 equivalent may be made for payments 
made prior to this date but on or after August 1, 2006, for Eligible Expenditures under 
Category 1. 
 
2.  
The Closing Date is June 30, 2012.
 
Page  13
-
12
-
ANNEX 1 
 
Performance Indicators 
 
The performance indicators referred to above in paragraph A.1, Section II of this 
Schedule consist of the following: 
 
PDO 
Outcome Indicators 
Use of Outcome Information 
Improve passenger and 
freight traffic flows in 
an efficient and safe 
manner along the 
corridor from Ankang 
to Maoba. 
 
Freight rate for a shipment 
from Ankang to Wanyuan 
(based on a sample of 
products). 
 
Travel time on existing 
highway and AME. 
 
Accident rates on the existing 
Highway and AME. 
 
Assess overall impact of 
improvements to transport flows 
along the corridor as a proxy for 
transport integration. 
 
Assess improvement in time 
saving and accessibility of areas 
around Ankang Prefecture. 
 
Identify possible shortcomings 
in addressing road safety 
conditions along the corridor. 
 
Intermediate Results 
One per Component 
Results Indicators for Each 
Component 
Use of Results Monitoring 
AME Component:
 
Enhance road 
infrastructure capacity 
along the Ankang-
Maoba Expressway. 
 
AME Component:
 
Average daily traffic on the 
Expressway. 
 
Average daily traffic on the 
existing parallel highways 
(sample of roads). 
 
AME Component:
 
Assess effectiveness of 
investments in increasing overall 
capacity along the corridor. 
 
LRIP Component:
 
Increase accessibility 
to markets and services 
by the lower-income 
rural areas of Ankang. 
 
LRIP Component:
 
Increase in average traffic 
volume and reduction in travel 
time on selected roads after the 
completion of the 
improvements. 
 
LRIP Component:
 
Assess effectiveness of 
investments and efficiency of 
infrastructure in increasing 
freight flow and saving time, as 
a
proxy for enhanced livelihood 
and business conditions in 
poorer rural areas in Ankang. 
 
Page  14
-
13
-
Reduction in average 
passenger tariffs and freight 
rates per kilometer on selected 
roads after the completion of 
the improvements. 
 
Assess effective use of the 
improved use of road 
infrastructure for overall 
integration and transport of 
products. 
ISP Component:
 
Strengthen SPCD
’s 
capacity in managing 
the increasing number 
of kilometers of roads 
under its responsibility 
in the Shaanxi 
Province and, in 
particular, within 
Ankang. 
 
ISP Component:
 
Increased percentage of road 
provincial road network with 
up-to-date information on its 
condition. 
 
Enhanced knowledge based on 
road impacts. 
 
Enhanced overall knowledge 
of road management issues 
and approaches at SPCD and 
Ankang Road Bureau. 
 
ISP Component:
 
Assess improved data collection 
practices at SPCD for better road 
management decisions. 
 
Assess progress in acquisition of 
knowledge towards the 
application of enhanced road 
management practices at both 
provincial and city offices of the 
SPCD. 
 
Page  15
-
14
-
SCHEDULE 3
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
Date Payment Due
Payment of Principal
*
November 15, 2012 
6,395,000 
May 15, 2013 
6,580,000 
November 15, 2013 
6,770,000 
May 15, 2014 
6,970,000 
November 15, 2014 
7,170,000 
May 15, 2015 
7,380,000 
November 15, 2015 
7,595,000 
May 15, 2016 
7,815,000 
November 15, 2016 
8,045,000 
May 15, 2017 
8,280,000 
November 15, 2017 
8,520,000 
May 15, 2018 
8,770,000 
November 15, 2018 
9,025,000 
May 15, 2019 
9,290,000 
November 15, 2019 
9,560,000 
May 15, 2020 
9,840,000 
November 15, 2020 
10,125,000 
May 15, 2021 
          10,420,000 
 
November 15, 2021 
          10,725,000 
May 15, 2022 
          11,035,000 
November 15, 2022 
          11,360,000 
May 15, 2023 
          11,690,000 
November 15, 2023 
          12,030,000 
May 15, 2024 
          12,380,000 
November 15, 2024 
          12,740,000 
May 15, 2025 
          13,110,000 
November 15, 2025 
          13,495,000 
May 15, 2026 
          13,890,000 
November 15, 2026 
         14,295,000 
May 15, 2027 
          14,700,000 
 
*
The figures in this column represent the amount dollars to be repaid, except as provided 
in Section 3.10 of the General Conditions. 
Page  16
-
15
-
APPENDIX 
 
Section I.  Definitions 
 
1. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
 
2. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004. 
 
3. 
“Displaced Person” means a person who, on account of the execution of the 
Project and the construction of the Maoba-Bashan Expressway, has experienced 
or would experience direct economic and social impacts caused by: (i) the 
involuntary taking of land, resulting in: (A) relocation or loss of shelter; (B) loss 
of assets or access to assets; or (C) loss of income sources or means of  
livelihood, whether or not such person must move to another location; or (ii) the 
involuntary restriction of access to legally designated parks and protected areas, 
resulting in adverse impacts on the livelihood of such person; and “Displaced 
Persons” means  collectively, all such Displaced Persons. 
 
4. 
“EMPs” means, collectively: (i)  the environmental management plan in respect 
of the Ankang–Maoba Expressway under Part A of the Project duly adopted by 
the Project Implementing Entity on May 2006, and referred to in paragraph 4, 
Section I of the Schedule to the Project Agreement, as the same may be revised 
from time to time with the prior agreement of the Bank; (ii) the environmental 
management framework (EMF) in respect of the roads under Part B the Project 
duly adopted by the Project Implementing Entity on May 2006, referred to in 
paragraph 8(b), Section I of the Schedule to the Project Agreement, as the same 
may be revised from time to time with the prior agreement of the Bank; and (iii) 
the mitigation measures under the Maoba-Bashan Expressway EIA duly adopted 
by the Project Implementing Entity pursuant to paragraph 5, Section I of the 
Project Agreement, and “EMP” means any of one of them.  
 
5. 
“FFFPO” means the Foreign Fund Financed Project Office established under the 
Shaanxi Provincial Transportation Department on October 31, 1989 (under the 
name of World Bank Fund Financed Office, renamed to the Foreign Fund 
Financed Project Office with the acronym FFFPO on November 19, 2002), 
responsible for coordinating the preparation of the Project and supervising and 
monitor its implementation, and referred to in paragraph 1, Section I of the 
Schedule to the Project Agreement, and any successor thereto. 
 
6. 
“Financial Management Manual” means the financial management manual in 
respect of the Project duly adopted by the Project Implementing Unit on 
December 2006, and referred to in paragraph B.2, Section II of the Schedule to 
Page  17
-
16
-
the Project Agreement; as the same may be revised from time to time with the 
agreement of the Bank. 
 
7. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005.   
 
8. 
“Implementation Arrangements” means the arrangements for the provision of 
counterpart funds and implementation of the RPF and EMF in the carrying out of 
Part B of the Project as set forth in a letter dated June 24, 2006 issued by Ankang 
City and addressed to the Project Implementing Entity.  
 
9. 
“Local Road Section” means any road section out of the 1,480-km of rural roads 
under Part B of the Project, which is selected by the Project Implementation 
Entity to be improved and rehabilitated in accordance with paragraph 8(a) of 
Section I of the Schedule to the Project Agreement, and the term “Local Road 
Sections” means collectively all the Local Road Section. 
 
10. 
“Maoba-Bashan Expressway” means the expressway connecting the Ankang-
Maoba Expressway under Part A of the Project with a point at the border 
between Shaanxi and Sichuan provinces near Bashan Township in Shaanxi, of 
about 23 kilometers long, to be constructed by the Project Implementing Entity 
with its own resources and those of the Borrower contemporaneously with the 
Ankang-Maoba Expressway under Part A of the Project. 
 
11. 
“Maoba-Bashan Expressway EIA” means the environmental impact assessment 
to be adopted and implemented by the Project Implementing Entity pursuant to 
paragraph 5, Section I of the Project Agreement, which set out the environmental 
mitigation measures to be applied in the construction of the Maoba-Bashan 
Expressway, as the same may be revised from time to time with the prior 
agreement by the Bank, and such term includes all attachments and annexes 
supplemental to Maoba-Bashan Expressway EIA. 
 
12. 
“Maoba-Bashan Expressway RAP” means the resettlement action plan with 
respect to the Maoba-Bashan Expressway, to be adopted and implemented by the 
Project Implementing Entity pursuant to paragraph 5, Section I of the Project 
Agreement, which set out the principles and procedures governing land 
acquisition, resettlement, compensation and rehabilitation of Displaced Persons 
on account of the execution of the Maoba-Bashan Expressway, as well as 
reporting and monitoring arrangements to ensure compliance with said plan, as 
the same may be revised from time to time with the prior agreement of the Bank; 
and such term includes all attachments and annexes supplemental to said plans. 
 
13. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004. 
Page  18
-
17
-
14. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated June 24, 2006 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
 
15. 
“Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Bank and the Project 
Implementing Entity of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from 
time to time; and such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental 
to the Project Agreement. 
 
16. 
“Project Implementing Entity” means the Borrower’s Province of Shaanxi and 
any successor thereto. 
 
17. 
 “RAP” means the resettlement action plan with respect to Part A of the Project, 
duly adopted by the Project Implementing Entity on May 2006, which set out the 
principles and procedures governing land acquisition, resettlement, compensation 
and rehabilitation of Displaced Persons on account of the execution of such Part 
of the Project, as well as reporting and monitoring arrangements to ensure 
compliance with said plan, as the same may be revised from time to time with the 
prior agreement of the Bank; and such term includes all attachments and annexes 
supplemental to said plans.  
 
18. 
“RAPs” means collectively the RAP and the Maoba-Ankang Expressway RAP, 
as so defined, and the resettlement action plans to be prepared and adopted by the 
Project Implementing Entity for Part B of the Project pursuant to the RPF and the 
provisions of paragraph 4(b), Section I of the Schedule to the Project Agreement.  
 
19. 
“Resettlement Policy Framework” and “RPF” mean the resettlement policy 
framework dated June 2006, with respect to Part B of the Project, duly adopted 
by the Project Implementing Entity on June 2006 that sets forth the resettlement 
principles, organizational arrangements, and design criteria in accordance with 
which resettlement action plans are prepared and submitted to the Bank for 
approval in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 4(b), Section I of the 
Schedule to the Project Agreement. 
 
20. 
“RMB” means the lawful currency of the Borrower. 
 
21. 
“SPCD” means the Shaanxi Provincial Communications Department and any 
successor thereto.
 
