Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 7318
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
COAL ENGINEERING PROJECT
(CREDIT 1355-PAR)
June 17, 1988
Energy Operations Division
Country Department I
Europe, Middle East and
North Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distrbution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



THE WORLD BlANKO
WhngtOn. Dt.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Okaco Oi 0tw4OuG
OWamm_ Iv"ti;n
June 17, 1988
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECTs   Project Completion Report on Paklstan
Coal EnRineerins Protect (Credit 1355-PAi)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled *Project
Completion Report on Pakistan Coal Engineering Project (Credit 1355-PAK)'
prepared by the Europe. Mlddle East and North Africa Regional Office. Further
evaluation of this project by the Operations Evaluation Department has not
been made.
Yves Rovani
by Ram R. Chopra
Attachment
This document has  restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the pefonnmace
or their officl dudes. Its cotentes may not othewe be dbcised without World Bank abozioon.



FOR OMCIUL USE ONLY
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
COAL ENGINEERING PROJECT
(Credit 1355-PAK)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Tible of Contents
Page No.
Preface ......................................... ..*..............         i
Basic Data Sheet .      . ..... .                   .... .. . ..... .      ii
Highlights                          ..................................................  iv
I. INTRODUCTION ..                  ..............................................  1
II. PROJECT BACKGROUND             ........................1.................. 
Project Origin, Appraisal and Credit Approval ............              1
Project Objectives and Description                 .        .           2
Changes in Project Scope .................. .                           3
III. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION .....         .     ....... . ..... ..... .... .     3
Project Costs .................................. *. .....               3
Achievement of Project Objectives .........................             4
Project Management                 .......................................  4
Performance of Consultants and Contractors...............               4
Disbursements                 ............. . . .                       4
IV. CONCLUSIONS                   ....... ......    5
Lessons to be Learned...  ........                   ......             5
ANN    1
Project Ccet 8  ....................has a restricted distribution and may e
This document has a festricted distribution and may be used by reciptents only in the pefformance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorzatE



ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
COAL ENGINEERING PROJECT
(Credit 1355-PAR)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Preface
Credit 1355-PAK to the Islamic Republic of Pakistan for the Coal
Engineering Project in the amount of SDR 6.5 million was signed on May 24,
1983 and became effective on June 22, 1984. Since the initial exploration
stages of the project did not indicate the existence of coal deposits adequate
to support a mine-mouth power plant, the Government agreed with IDA that the
project should be closed. rhe credit was closed on January 19, 1987 with a
total disbursement of SDR 1.3 million and the undisbursed balance of SDR 5.2
million was cancelled.
The main objectives of the project weret (a) to explore and evaluate
an identified coal bearing area (the Duki area of Baluchistan); (b) to carry
out detailed engineering for development of a mine based on these reserves and
thus contribute to the expansion of domestic coal supply; and (c) to
strengthen the technical capability of the implementing agency, the Water and
Power Development Authority (WAPDA).
This Project Completion Report (PCR) was prepared by the Energy
Division of the Asia Technical Department and the Energy Division of the
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Regional Office based on the Bank's
President's Report, supervision reports and other documents in the Bank's
files and on a comprebensive PCR prepared by WAPDA.
In accordance with the revised procedures for project 1?erformance
audit reporting, this PCR was read by the Operations Evaluation Department
(OED), but the project was not audited by OED staff.
Following normal procedures, OED sent copies of the draft report to
the Borrower for comments; however, none were received.



- li -
ISLAWIIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
COAL ENGINEERING PROJECT
(Credit 1355-PAK)
PROJFCT COMPLETION REPORT
BASIC DATA SHEET
(US$ m)
Credit Position
Original            Disbursed            Cancelled
Credit 1355-PAK                  7.00                 1.38                 5.62
Cumulative Credit Disbursement
FY84           FY85           FY86           FY87
(i) Planned                1.50            4.50           6.50           7.00
(ii) Actual                 0.00            0.58           0.80           1.38
(iii) (ii) as Z of (i)        --              112            12Z            201
OTHER PROJECT DATA
Original            Actual
Board Approval                          05/03/83            05/03/83
Development Credit Agreement            05/14/83            05/24183
Effectiveness                           08/24/83            06/22/84
Credit Closing                          06130/87            06/30/87
Total Project Cost (USS m)                 8.8                 1.7
Completion of physical components       06/30/86            06/30/86
Financial Rate of Return (Z)            Not applicable           --
Economic Rate of Return (1)             Not applicable



- iii -
MISSION DATA
No. of    No. of        Staff      Date of
Mission             Month/Year      weeks    Dersons        week        relorts
Identification         06/81           2         2            4       07/29/81
Preappraisal           02/82           1         2            2       03/30/82
Appraisal              05/82           1         2            2       07/09/82
Supervision I          06/83           1         1            1       07/15/83
Supervision II         01/84           1         1            1       02/15/84
Supervision III        05/85           1         1            1       05/22/85
Supervision IV         08/86           1         1            1       09/17/86
12
STAFF INPUT
(Staffweeks)
FY80   FY31   FY82   FY83   FY84   FY85   FY86   FY87   FY88   Total
Preappraisal  0.09       -  21.62       -      -      -       -      -       -   21.71
Appraisal         -   6.70  13.18  Z0.22       -       -      -      -       -   40.10
Negotiations      -      -      -   5.67       -      -       -      -       -    5.67
Supervision       -      -      -   2.20   8.78   3.92   3.36   3.82        -   22.08
Other             -      -      -   3.78   0.34       -       -   0.07   0.27    4.46
Total                                                                            94.02
OTHER DATA
Borrower                      Islamic Republic of Pakistan
Executing Agency              Water and Power Development Authority
Fiscal Year of Borrower       July 1 to June 30



- iv -
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
COAL ENGINEERING PROJECT
(Credit 1355-PAK)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Highlithts
0        The technical assistance coal engineering project was designed to
support the Government of Pakistan in its effort to develop indigenous energy
resources to reduce its dependence on hydrocarbon and conserve indigenous
natural gas and to lighten the burden on the balance of payments. The projecr
was appraised in May 1982 and approved by the Board in May 1983. Its objec-
tives were to: (a) identify and assess the economic viability of an area of
coal reserves and thus contribute to the evaluation of indigenous energy
resources; (b) provide technical input on the optimml use of these resources;
and (c) provide appropriate technical assistance to the involved government
agencies (para. 5).
1        Despite the failure to locate an economically viable coal deposit
many technical objectives of the project were largely achieved. By project
completion a large area previously considered to have potential for large-
scale coal development had been evaluated and in addition a number of geolo-
gists and drilling personnel had been trained both in project management and
the technical aspects of coal exploration (para. 9).
2        During project appraisal, it had been anticipated that the explora-
tion program in the Duki area would locate a coal reserve that would warrant
detailed drilling and the preparation of subsequent feasibility studies.
However as the initial exploration progressed it became apparent that the
prospects for the discovery of coal deposits of economic and financial
viability-were less than had originally been hoped. Consequently it was
decided that the detailed exploration and feasibility phases of the project
were not justified based on the initial geological exploration and only
SDR 1.3 million was disbursed--the balance of SDR 5.2 million was cancelled
(para. 7).
3        Overall the project succeeded in (a) achieving an accurate and
comprehensive assessment of the coal resources of the Duki Basin (5,000 square
kilometers) and (b) significantly improving the exploratory operating stan-
dards of WAPDA and associated agencies. An important lesson to be learned
from this project is the confirmation of the wisdom of the staged approach
towards expenditures on mineral exploration which in this case evaluated a
large coat basin with minimal expenditures and large savings of the credit
proceeds (paras. 14-15).



ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
COAL ENGINEERING PROJECT
(Credit 1355-PAK)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.       Commercial energy supply in Pakistan increased at an average annual
rate of 7.72 during the period 1972-81; however during the same period the
annual growth rate for coal was only 2.62--substantially below that for other
energy resources. Despite the growth in total energy supply, consumption had
in recent years increased even more rapidly, requiring additional oil imports
and at times resulting in power and gas shortages. To alleviate the situa-
tion, the Government aimed at: (a) limiting the demand for imported fuels, and
(b) developing domestic energy resources that could substitute for imported
energy.
2.       Pakistan's coal resources are estimated at about 1,250 million tonnes
of which about 1,000 million tonnes are located in Sind. The coal is of poor
quality and generally only recoverable by underground mining. The lack of
basic geological informatioa has prevented proper evaluation of the potential
of the sector. In order to assist the Government in overcoming this problem,
an IDA credit in the amount of SDR 6.5 million for a coal engineering project
was extended to the Government in May 1983, to finance consultant services,
drilling contracts, training programs and the procurement of equipment for a
basic geological survey and feasibility studies in the Duki area of the
province of Baluchistan.
II. PROJECT BACKGROUND
Proiect Origin, ApRraisal and Credit Approval
3.       In accordance with the Government's policy of increasing the use of
indigenous coal resources, IDA was approached in early 1981 by WAPDA for
assistance in evaluating the coal resources of Baluchistan. The objective was
to identify a coal reserve that would serve as a source of fuel for a coal-
fired power plant, thereby conserving indigenous natural gas and minimizing
the use of imported petroleum fuels. An IDA mission visited Pakistan in June
1981 to review with WAPDA the scope of the proposed project and possible
project sites.
4.       Historically the coal developments in Pakistan had been located close
to existing infrastructure in geologically difficult conditions. It was
agreed that it was desirable to locate the project in an area where the geolo-
gical structure was apparently less complex, and the potential existed for at
lea.t a minimum amount of mechanization in coal production and where security
of coal supply for the life of the power plant could be established. Follow-
ing a careful review of all available data with WAPDA, the Geological Survey
of Pakistan (GSP) and the Pakistan Mineral Development Corporation (PMDC), the
Duki area of eastern Baluchistan was selected as the project site. The



-2-
Project was prepared by WAPDA and appraised in May 1982. A credit of SDR 6.5
million was approved on May 3, 1983 and became effective on June 22, 1984
after fulfillment of the three effectiveness conditions ramely, ap-proval of
the Executive Committee of the National Economic Council, the appointment of
consultants and the appointment of a suitable Pakistani project leader.
Project Objectives and Description
5.       The project's objectives were to: (a) identify, explore, and assess
the economic viability of an area of coal reserves and thus contribute to the
evaluation of indigenous energy resources; (b) provide technical input on the
optimal use of these resources; and (c) provide appropriate technical assis-
tance to the involved government agencies. It was hoped that the project
would prove sufficient coal reserves to produce 0.3-1.0 million tonnes per
year of coal to supply a 100 - 250 MW power plant. Such new generating capa-
city would have provided an energy base for the Government's planned indus-
trial expansion of Baluchistan and at the same time would have supported the
extension of WAPDA's electricity grid to Baluchistan.
6.       The project was thuo designed to consist of four components: (a) an
exploration program; (b) a mine feasibility study; (c) a ieview of current
technology for use of high sulphur coal and thermal power generation in areas
of limited water supply; and (d) a training program. The exploration program
was designed to evaluate the economic potential of the coal resources of the
Duki area and was to be followed by the second component--the mine feasibility
study for the identified reserves. The third and fourth components were
designed to strengthen the technical capabilities of WAPDA in all aspects of
coal assessment;and utilization. A description of the components follows:
(i)   The coal exploration was to be implemented in three phases in order
to ensure that the proposed studies and initial exploratory program would be
carried out only after previous results had been evaluated and the desirabi-
lity of proceeding further had beet, established. The first phase would
consist of researching and interpreting the available geological data base,
photogeological studies utilizing satellite imagery as appropriate and initial
geological field work. Existing geological data would be compiled from all
available sources within the federal and provincial governments. There was
also some data available from records of existing artisanal mining in the area
and some preliminary geological mapping at scales of ls250,000 and 150,000
for a portion of the area. The incorporation of this available data on
geology and coal resources into a new preliminary geological interpretation of
the area would be supplemented by specialist photogeological mapping. This
new geological evaluation would assist in the identification of priority areas
and in the rejection of areas clearly indicated to be non-prospective. The
geological fieldwork would determine the stratigraphy and structure of the
known coal measures and extend this data into new areas so as to identify
exploration targets. The fieldwork would consist of geological traversing;
the drilling of an initial ten test drill holes; the measurement of the
stratigraphic section in coal-bearing sediments; the determination of the
geological structure; the opening up, describing, measuring and sampling of
coal zones; and the completion of a preliminary geological evaluation of all
areas of coal-bearing sediments. An evaluation of this preliminary data would
permit the selection of areas which warrant a further reconnaissance drilling



-3-
program based on the assessed potential of the area for mine development. The
second phase would consist of reconnaissance drilling with approximately 30
widely spaced test holes in the areas selected in the first phase, to verify
the stratigraphy and structure of the coal-bearing sediments as suggested by
the initial mapping program. Additionally, reliable information would be
obtained on coal quality based on the analysis and petrographic study of
unweathered coal cores recovered from the drill-holes. Data would also be
obtained on the physical characteristics of the associated floor and roof rock
strata which would be important for mine development planning. In the third
phase, those areas which, followi:ag reconnaissance drilling, show good poten-
tial, would be further assessed. A more detailed exploration of one or more
selected areas would be undertaken so as to obtain all the data required for a
feasibility study. During this third phase, the program would include
drillin0 and evaluation of about 70 drill holes with  an accumulated depth of
about 20,000 m. Additional geological mapping, topographic mapping, test-
pitting, bulk sampling and underground driveage, would also be carried out.
(ii) The mine feasibility study would determine the economic, financial
and technical mining viability of tne most favorable areas located by the
exploration program. The feasibility study would determine the alternative
mining systems that might be used to recover the coal and assess the infra-
structure requirements for the development of one or several coal mines to
supply a nearby thermal power plant. In particular, the feasibility study
would consider the optimum mine location in view of the information available
on the most likely power plant location.
(iii) The technoloRv investigation component would research the latest
available technical methods in the field of coal-fired thermal power plants
with specific reference to minimum water usage and the burning of high sulphur
coal with minimum environmental impact.
(iv) The training component was designed to strengthen the technical
skills of the staff of WAPDA and other participating agencies such as PMDC and
GSP in malagement and execution of field exploration and coal related feasibi-
lity studies. Technical assistance (inc-iding training) would be provided
throughout the exploration program and for the feasibility studies.
Changes in Proiect Scope
7.       As a result of unfavorable geological findings, the project scope was
severely curtailed. Two of the four project components, namely the Mine
Feasibility Study end the Technology Investigation, were cancelled altogether,
and only about one-fifth of a third component, namely the Exploration Program,
was carried out with the result that only SDR 1.3 million was disbursed (20X)
as against the appraisal estimate of SDR 6.5 million.
III. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Project Costs
8.       Annex 1 gives a comparison of the actual project costs versus the
appraisal estimate. The actual costs were only about 19? of the appraisal
estimate. mainly because of the reduced project scope (para. 7).



-4-
Achievement of Proiect Obiectives
9.       The credit was signed in May 1983 but it took until June 1984 to-
become effective because of delays in ft:lfilling the conditions of effective-
ness. Subsequent to the appointment of the consultants ar.d the selection of a
drilling contractor the project proceeded smoothly. By October 1985 the first
and second phases (para. 6) of the exploration component, consisting of 28
drill holes, were finished and the preliminary geological evaluation of the
coal potential of the Duki area was completed. While the exploration program
failad to locate any coal reserves which merited detailed exploration, the
comprehensive evaluation of the Duki coa' area of eastern Baluchistan was
completed. In addition minor coal deposits suited only to very small-scale
mining by traditional methods were located and are indeed today being
exploited by the local people. Personnel of WAPDA, PMDC and the GSP gained
valuable experience in the regional evaluation of coal resources from an
economic standpoint.
Proiect Management
10.      The project was implemented by WAPDA through a Project Management
Team which was strengthened by the addition of senior experienced geologists
from both PMDC and the GSP. An expatriate consulting firm provided technical
c3sistance and the drilling program was also executed by a foreign drilling
contractor from a developing country.
Performance of Consultants and Contractors
11.      The supervision of the exploration program and the technical training
was implemented by consultants. Despite the reduced scope of the project, the
consultants made a major contribution to increasing the technical skills not
only of WAPDA but also of personnel from both PMDC and GSP.
12.      The drilling contractors from a developing country performed
admirably and have in fact continued to operate in Pakistan as ir.dependent
foreign contractors following their introduction into the country under ICB
bidding procedures.
Disbursements
13.      Disbursements were made against 10O  of foreign expenditures of
contracts awarded for equipment, drilling services and consultants' services.
Disbursement proceeded smoothly though at a much smaller scale than had origi-
nally been planned due to: (a) reduced project scope, (b) significantly lower
bid for the drilling contract--the major procurement item under the
credit--than had been provided for in the project cost estimates, and (c) the
decision of WAPDA not to use IDA funds for the procurement of vehicles. Out
of a credit amount of SDR 6.5 million, only SDR 1.3 million was disbursed as
components of the project were cancelled as a result of unfavorable geological
findings. In addition, ICB for the drilling contract resulted in a bid lower
than 502 of the estimated cost.l/
l/ US$1.96 million bid versus US$3.3 million budgeted for the conceptual
complete drill program.



IV. CONCLUSIONS
14.      The success of the project should be measured not by whether or not
it located a coal deposit which could lead to an economically viable project
in the current economic environment, but by whether prospects were accurately
evaluated and tecimical standards raised. As most exploration efforts do not
result in new mine development, particularly in the short-term. the lack of
new nine development, as a result of the project, does not indicate that the
project failed to achieve its purpose. Indeed, since it is at least possible
that the project itself may have prevented a premature rush to initiating mine
development based on inadequate exploration data, the project may have saved
many times its cost through avoidance of wasteful expenditure. The project
did indeed evaluate the coal deposits of the Duki area and it did significant-
ly raise the operating standards of WAPDA with regard to coal development.
Lessons to be Learned
15.      There are two main lessons to be learned from this lending operation.
They are:
(a) a great deal of time and effort would have been saved for the
Government and WAPDA on the one hand and the Association on the
other, if instead of preparing and implementing a full-fledged
project, the Project Preparation Facility had been used to fund the
initial exploratory stages before launching the project; and
(b) in an exploratory project of this type, the borrower and the
Association should be alert to the need for immediate cancellation of
subsequent stages of the project should they prove unnecessary,
reducing commitment charges, as was done in the subject project.



ANNEX 1
-6-
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
COAL ENGINEERING PROJECT
(Credit 1355-PAK)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Proiect Costs
(US$ x 10)
Estimated /a                Actual
Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign  Total
(a) Exploration Program               924    4,836  5,760    280   1,200   1,480
(b) Mine Feasibility Study            339      482    821       0       0        0
tc) Technology Investigation           63      100    163       0       0        0
td) Training and Tech. Assistance    100        80    180       0     180      180
Total Base Cost                1.426    5.498  6,924    280   1,380   1,660
Physical Contingencies                142       550    692
Price Contingencies                   198       952  1,150
Total                          1,766    7,000  8,766    280   1.380   1,660
/a President's Report.



