Document of
The World Bank                    FLE 0
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3453-PAK
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT OF SDR 6.5 MILLION
TO THE
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
FOR A
COAL ENGINEERING PROJECT
April 13, 1983
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may no otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit  = Pakistan Rupee (Rs)
US$1      =  Rs 12.45
RS 1      =  US$0.080 l/
GOVERNMENT OF PAKISTAN
Fiscal Year
July I -  June 30
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
bpd               Barrels per day
FOE               Fuel oil equivalent
GOBAL             Government of Baluchistan
GOP               Government of Pakistan
GSP               Geological Survey of Pakistan
LPG               Liquified petroleum gas
MW                Megawatt
mcf                1,000 standard cubic feet (scf) of gas
OGDC              Oil and Gas Development Corporation
PMDC              Pakistan Mineral Development Corp.
TOE               Tons of oil equivalent
ton               Metric ton
WAPDA             Pakistan Water and Power Development
Authority
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
1/ As of January 1982, the Rupee was placed on a floating basis against a
basket of currencies. A rate of Rs 12.45/US$1 is used throughout this
report, except where historical data are being presented for earlier
periods, in which case the applicable rate is identified in the text.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PAKISTAN
COAL ENGINEERING PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:              Islamic Republic of Pakistan
Executing Agency:      Water and Power Development Authority (WAPDA)
Amount:                 SDR 6.5 million (US$7.0 million equivalent)
Terms:                 Standard
Project Description:  The proposed project is designed to support the
Government of Pakistan's efforts to increase the use of
local coal and consists of:
(i) a geological survey of the Duki area in
Baluchistan followed by a detailed evaluation of
the more promising areas for coal development;
(ii) a mine feasibility study;
(iii) a technology assessment for using minimum water and
high sulphur coal in thermal power plants; and
(iv) technical assistance in management, field
exploration and pre-feasibility studies for coal
related projects.
The project is subject to the normal risks associated
with exploration projects, and has therefore been phased
with clearly defined review and approval stages so as to
minimize these risks.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their ofricial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-ii-
Estimated Costs
Local     Foreign      Total
-    --- US$ ,000     …
(a) Exploration Program                     924        4,836     5,760
(b) Mine Feasibility Study                  339          482       821
(c) Technology Investigation                 63          100       163
(d) Training and Technical Assistance       100           80       180
Total Base Cost                       1,426        5,498     6,924
Physical Contingencies                  142          550       692
Price Contingencies                     198          952     1,150
Total Financing Required              1,766        7,000     8,766
Note: Local costs are net of taxes and duties.



-iii-
Financing Plan
Local     Foreign      Total
----   US$ million-
IDA                                       -         7.0          7.0
WAPDA                                   1.8           -          1.8
Total                                   1.8         7.0          8.8
Estimated Disbursements:
US$ riillion
IDA FY   1984         1985       1986      1987
Annual                                  1.5          3.0        2.0      0.5
Cumulative                              1.5          4.5       6.5       7.0
Rate of Return:                            Not applicable
Maps:                                        IBRD 16888
IBRD 16889






INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT TO
THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO
THE ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN FOR A COAL ENGINEERING PROJECT
1.      I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed Credit
to the Islamic Republic of Pakistan for SDR 6.5 million (US$7 million equiv-
alent) on standard IDA terms to help finance a coal engineering project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.      The most recent economic report "Pakistan:  Economic Developments and
Prospects" (No. 4215-PAK, dated February 11, 1983) was distributed to the
Executive Directors on February 11, 1983.
3.      The past five years have witnessed a significant economic recovery in
Pakistan. Between FY77 and FY82 GDP growth averaged over 6% p.a. This
growth was accompanied by a recovery in agricultural and industrial produc-
tion well above the rate of population growth, currently averaging about 2.8%
p.a., and by a rapid growth in exports. Exports increased in real terms by
10% p.a. Value added in agriculture rose by an average of 3.8% p.a. and in
industry by 9.3% p.a. This performance contrasts markedly with the economic
stagnation of the early and mid-1970s, when the growth of GDP averaged only
3-4% and goods production 1.1% p.a., and export growth was negligible.
4.      The recovery in the economy since 1977 has been aided by several
factors, including favorable weather and higher domestic demand associated
with better crops, rising rural incomes and workers' remittances from the
Middle East. Various policy changes introduced by the Government have also
contributed significantly to the recovery.
5.      In recent years the Government has taken a number of initiatives to
improve agricultural production. Particular attention has been given to
improving farmer incentives and input supplies. Support prices for all major
crops have been raised so that they are now closer to world prices. At the
same time, steps have been taken to reduce the fertilizer subsidy (which has
been creating budgetary problems) and to separate it from the development
1/ Parts I and II are substantially the same as Parts I and II of the
President's Report P-3462-PAK (Reservoir Maintenance Facilities Project)
dated February 22, 1983.



-2-
budget for agriculture in order to protect allocations for other priority
agricultural projects and programs. An Agricultural Prices Commission has
been set up to make recommendations on appropriate changes in crop support
and input prices on a consistent and timely basis.
6.      The Government has formulated and begun to implement a new agricul-
tural policy based on the main recommendations of a UNDP study on irrigated
agriculture which emphasizes the need to improve the efficiency of the water
delivery system through the rehabilitation of distributaries and better
scheduling of water deliveries to the farmer; and to expand the role of the
private sector, for example, through-the promotion of private tubewell
development in sweet groundwater areas. Other programs--in pesticides,
seeds, agricultural credit, extension, research and farm power--have also
been strengthened. These initiatives are still at an early stage and a
breakthrough from the problems of low productivity at the farm level is yet
to take place.
7.      Major changes have also been made during the past five years in
government policies in the industrial sector. The policies pursued in the
early and mid-1970s of extensive nationalizations, tight restrictions on the
private sector, and rapid expansion of the public sector to spearhead
industrial investment and growth have been gradually reversed. Most agricul-
tural processing and some industrial units have been denationalized; con-
stitutional safeguards have been provided to private industry against further
arbitrary government acquisitions; and the areas open to the private sector
have been widened. A wide range of incentives including tax holidays, excise
and import duty concessions, concessionary credit and income tax provisions,
and direct cash rebates have been granted to encourage private investment and
exports. These have been supplemented by a partial liberalization of imports
which has improved the availability of inputs. The investment sanctioning
procedure has been streamlined. These measures have led to an improvement in
private sector confidence and to a sharp increase in private investment,
mainly in small and medium-scale projects.
8.      At the same time, the Government has embarked on the difficult and
inevitably long process of reforming the public industrial sector, which has
been plagued by low efficiency and profits. Major studies have been com-
pleted of the management and organization of the public sector, and the
performance of individual enterprises. In accordance with the recommenda-
tions of these studies, the Board of Industrial Management (BIM) has been
abolished, the number of sector holding corporations has been reduced, and
boards of directors have been established which have helped to increase
autonomy at the enterprise level. Some public sector units which have little
prospect of improved financial performance have been closed down. These
measures, together with additions to capacity and steps to retain skilled
technical personnel through salary adjustments, for example in the fertilizer
subsector, have helped to increase production and capacity utilization sub-
stantially in the public sector.



-3-
9.      The higher level of economic activity during the past five years and
the Government's efforts to raise existing tax rates, introduce new taxes and
reduce tax evasion have helped to improve public revenues. The budgetary
situation improved significantly during FY80 through FY82. Government
revenues, following increases of 21% in FY78 and 16% in FY79, rose by an
average of 18% p.a. during the next three years as a result of the continued
growth of the economy, tax and tariff increases and intensified efforts to
improve tax collections. Although political developments outside Pakistan's
borders led to unplanned expenditures, tight restraints were maintained on
total spending; the growth of public expenditures was limited to 13% p.a.
The expansion of development and administrative expenditures were restrained,
while subsidies were reduced by more than 25%. These restraints on expendi-
tures, continued revenue growth and some improvement in surpluses generated
by public sector agencies helped to increase the availability of
non-inflationary domestic resources. During FY80 through FY82, the overall
budget deficit averaged 5.7% of GNP and the bank-financed budget deficit 1.7%
of GNP; both figures are well below those of the late 1970s.
10.     Pakistan's export performance improved considerably between FY77 and
FY81. Rapidly rising workers' remittances from abroad, from US$578 million
in FY77 to over US$2.1 billion in FY81, also greatly assisted the external
position. These increases, however, were partly offset by an increase in the
value of imports, mainly petroleum, oil and lubricants, fertilizer, edible
oil and capital goods. The current account deficit was US$991 million or
3.3% of GNP in FY81, compared to US$1,050 million or nearly 7% of GNP in FY77
in current prices.
11.      A number of developments contributed favorably to Pakistan's ability
to finance the FY81 current account deficit. These included the conclusion
of an Extended Fund Facility arrangement with the IMF in November 1980; a
positive response from aid donors to the country's improved economic perfor-
mance resulting in increased aid commitments and inflows; and an agreement
with bilateral creditors in the Pakistan Consortium for rescheduling of debt
service payments on official concessional debt falling due over an 18-month
period beginning mid-January 1981.  As a consequence of improved performance
on both current account and capital account, foreign exchange reserves
increased from US$748 million to US$1,039 million during the year; the latter
was the equivalent of about two months' worth of import of goods and serv-
ices.
12.     The balance of payments deteriorated somewhat during FY82.  The
principal reasons were a 17% decline in the value of exports coupled with
relatively slow growth of migrant remittances (6%). For Pakistan's major
exports, rice and cotton, the combination of deteriorating world economic
conditions plus output expansion in other countries led to a decline in both
unit values and volumes. For manufactured exports, the slowdown in the world



-4-
economy, together with a deterioration in Pakistan's competitiveness result-
ing from the linkage of the rupee to the US dollar up to January 1982 (the
currency is now being managed with reference to a weighted basket of curren-
cies), led to a decline in value as compared with the previous year. Because
of the decline in world petroleum prices and import substitution in some key
sectors (most particularly, fertilizers), the volume of imports of essential
raw materials and capital goods could still grow sufficiently to provide for
a real GDP expansion of 6% while the total value of imports expanded by only
2%. Owing to the above factors, Pakistan's current account deficit rose from
US$991 million in FY81 to US$1,530 million in FY82 (the latter being equiv-
alent to 4.7% of GNP). Net inflows of official assistance, private capital
and IMF resources were not sufficient to cover the increased deficit and
there was a drawdown of about US$200 million in reserves. At the end of
FY82, reserves were US$840 million, the equivalent of about 1.5 months of
imports.
13.     The developments in the Pakistan economy since 1977 represent welcome
steps towards the solution of a set of problems which are essentially struc-
tural and long-term in nature. Notwithstanding these improvements, further
wide-ranging measures to address the basic issues which are limiting economic
growth in the longer term are necessary if Pakistan is to sustain its
recently improved economic performance over the present decade and bring
about a modest improvement in the living standards of its population. These
issues include the farm-level factors affecting low productivity in agricul-
ture; the structure and competitiveness of the industrial sector; the need to
improve performance of public sector enterprises; the factors lying behind
continued rapid growth in population; the need to redirect social service
expenditures; and the problems of resource mobilization.
14.     Agriculture remains the economy's mainstay, accounting directly for
roughly a third of GDP, employing about 60% of the labor force and, directly
or indirectly, providing nearly two thirds of total exports. Despite recent
improvements in output and yields, a number of fundamental factors continue
to limit agricultural productivity at levels well below the potential implied
by the resources and technologies already available. Generally, output
growth has not been commensurate with the substantial increases in available
inputs, especially water and fertilizer. While considerable potential still
exists for the additional use of fertilizer and other inputs, it appears
essential to give greater priority to evolving complementary policies and
programs which would have a direct impact on yields at the farm level. The
importance of increasing farm productivity is recognized in the Government
and a beginning has been made in addressing this problem. Nevertheless,
support for programs to strengthen research, extension, water management and
other programs in the agricultural and water sectors needs to be intensified,
while fertilizer subsidies must be further reduced, accompanied by necessary
adjustments in output and consumer prices.



-5-
15.     Manufacturing contributes about 15% of GDP and during much of the
1950s and 1960s provided a major stimulus to growth. Growth rates in
manufacturing production, though recently better, remain below the levels
attained in the 1960s. The textile industry, in particular, which accounts
for nearly 40% of value added in large-scale industry, has suffered from
problems of inefficiency, excess capacity and a lack of competitiveness in
foreign markets. Although there have been some recent improvements in the
output and profitability of public enterprises, these improvements need to be
carried further through appropriate reforms to remove distortions in pricing
and improve performance criteria and incentives to managers. To assist the
recovery in private investment and to maintain the increased momentum in the
industrial sector will require an adequate supply of local and foreign
financing, both for investments and current inputs, and the more rapid provi-
sion of necessary utilities and other infrastructure requirements. At the
same time, it is necessary to ensure that the Government's incentive system
supports those industries in which Pakistan has a comparative advantage.
Analysis is in progress to determine levels of effective protection in order
to provide the basis for formulating an appropriate industrial development
strategy for the 1980s.
16.     The Government's efforts to deal with the energy situation by adjust-
ing domestic oil prices, and by encouraging the substitution of other energy
forms and the exploration and development of domestic oil resources, have met
with some success. Growth of petroleum consumption has been restrained by
the development of hydro electricity and natural gas resources as well as by
petroleum price adjustments. At the same time, activity in the oil sector
has been stepped up, in some instances through joint ventures with foreign
private companies. Nevertheless, due to a variety of technical, geological
and other reasons, progress on exploration of new fields as well as the
development of existing fields has been slow and Pakistan's considerable
potential in the oil and gas sector has yet to be realized. The Government
has begun to implement a number of reforms relating to such matters as energy
planning, pricing and organization in order to accelerate progress.
17.   While it is clearly vital to sustain rapid growth in the commodity-
producing sectors, it is also necessary to contain the rapid growth in
population, currently running at about 2.8% p.a., which has seriously hand-
icapped the country's ability to improve living standards. Family planning
programs have so far had little effect and there have been few changes in the
socio-economic environment of a type that usually accompany declines in
fertility. Rapid population growth places severe burdens on government
resources simply to maintain education and health programs at their current
inadequate standards. However, without higher literacy rates, improved
health facilities and a reduction in child mortality, it is doubtful that
population growth rates can be much reduced. Expenditures on social services
have been low and undue emphasis has been given to higher education and urban
health facilities. The Government has recently shown more awareness of this
problem; a new and more promising population program is in the initial stages



-6-
of implementation, and several special programs to improve basic health and
education facilities were introduced in the FY83 budget, especially for rural
areas.
18.     Policies that face the longer-term issues in both the productive and
the social sectors will take time to have an appreciable effect and will have
to be implemented in the context of continued domestic and external resource
constraints. To improve the budget and the balance of payments, a fundamen-
tal improvement is required in the overall savings levels in the economy,
particularly in public savings. At 12% of GNP, national savings are substan-
tially above the levels of the early and mid-1970s, but are still low for a
country at Pakistan's per capita income level and stage of development. The
continuation of the Government's recent efforts to restrain public spending,
improve the performance of the public sector and encourage private investment
will help to reduce present imbalances between investment and savings flows.
At the same time, an increase in savings inevitably calls for restraining
private consumption through further appropriate price adjustments and selec-
tive duty increases on non-essential imports. Continued restraints on spend-
ing and measures to further improve revenues through improvements in tax
administration and tax ancl rate increases (for example, property taxes,
domestic water rates and irrigation water charges) are also needed.
19.     Increased agricultural production of major crops (particularly rice
and cotton) will help directly to sustain export growth. Efforts are also
necessary to stimulate the output of minor crops, for example, pulses,
potatoes, onions and fruits, for which markets exist in neighboring
countries. In addition, substantial scope exists for increasing Pakistan's
exports of manufactured goods such as textiles and engineering products, as
well as of a wide range of goods produced by the small-scale industrial
sector. Increased domestic output of wheat, edible oil, sugar, mineral fuels
and fertilizer would help to moderate import growth considerably.
20.     Although, as described above, the Pakistan economy continues to face
a number of difficulties, the improvements over the past few years in demand
management and in planning, incentives and governmenit programs in agricul-
ture, industry and energy have helped to create a climate more conducive to
rapid economic growth and better international trade performance, and have
established an improved framework within which further reforms can be effec-
tively pursued. The recent government policy initiatives, which have been
formulated in close consultation with the Bank and Fund, have improved Pakis-
tan's creditworthiness for commercial borrowing and for a blend of Bank and
IDA borrowing.
21.     At the end of calendar 1981, Pakistan's external public debt (exclud-
ing the undisbursed pipeline) stood at US$8.8 billion, of which US$4.6 bil-
lion was owed to bilateral members of the Pakistan Consortium, US$1.2 billion
to OPEC and US$1.9 billion to multilateral agencies and the balance to other
bilateral and private lenders. In 1981, the Bank Group's share in Pakistan's



-7-
external public indebtedness was 13.8% and in external debt service was
13.3%. According to Bank forecasts, provided recent policy improvements are
sustained, Pakistan's debt service ratio (debt service divided by exports of
goods and factor and non-factor services), which was about 12% in FY82,
should rise slowly during the 1980s, even assuming substantial commercial
borrowing, reaching 15% in FY85 and remaining in the 15-16% range through
FY90.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PAKISTAN
22.     The cumulative total of Bank/IDA commitments to Pakistan (exclusive
of Loans and Credits or portions thereof which were disbursed in the former
East Pakistan) now amounts to approximately US$2 billion. During its long
association with Pakistan, the Bank Group has been involved in almost all
sectors of the economy. This has included its involvement with other donors,
over a 20-year period, in the major program of works to develop the water
resources of the Indus Basin. Approximately 38% of total Bank/IDA commit-
ments to Pakistan have been for public utility services, 30% for agriculture,
31% for industry (of which 9% was for industrial imports) and 2% for educa-
tion. Lending for public utility services has included loans and credits for
railways, electric power, gas pipelines, ports, highways, telecommunications
and water supply.
23.     Lending operations in Pakistan have three main objectives:  first,
to support the directly productive sectors of the economy; secondly, to
support the expansion of, and to improve the institutions which are respon-
sible for, the principal public services supporting economic growth; and
thirdly, to meet basic needs in the areas of rural and urban development.
24.     In pursuit of these objectives, the Bank Group has placed special
emphasis on lending for agriculture, which is the mainstay of the Pakistan
economy. Projects in this sector are aimed at augmenting the supply of
essential inputs, principally irrigation water, fertilizer, seeds and credit;
strengthening research, extension and other agricultural supporting services;
improving water management; reclaiming land by controlling salinity and
waterlogging; and providing essential facilities including tubewells, live-
stock development and dairy processing. An important purpose of this lending
is to assist the Government's program to increase the productivity of avail-
able land and water resources in the Indus Basin through ouick-yielding
investments, as recommended recently in a UNDP-financed study for which the
Bank was executing agency.
25.     In industry, most lending for the private sector has been through
the DFCs, principally through eleven Loans/Credits amounting to US$270 mil-
lion for the Pakistan Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation (PICIC),



-8-
and two Credits to the Industrial Development Bank of Pakistan (IDBP), total-
ing US$50 million. Direct lending for industry has also included assistance
to three large fertilizer plants, as well as for small-scale industry. As of
September 30, 1982, IFC had made investments in 15 Pakistan enterprises for a
total of US$92.2 million, of which US$82.4 million was by way of loans and
US$9.8 million by equity participations (these are shown in Annex II). About
US$33.9 million of these investments remained outstanding. The enterprises
assisted by IFC include three in the field of pulp and paper products, two in
textiles, two in food and food processing, and one each in cement, steel,
fertilizers, plastics, wood processing and petrochemicals. IFC is also a
shareholder in PICIC.
26.     The focus of Bank Group lending for transport and communications has
shifted increasingly towards assisting Pakistan to better utilize existing
capacity by improving the efficiency of operations and strengthening the
institutions responsible for these services, especially the Karachi Port
Trust, Pakistan Railways, the Telephone and Telegraph Department, and federal
and provincial highway agencies. In the power sector, the Bank Group has
assisted the Karachi Electric Supply Corporation (KESC) and the Water and
Power Development Authority (WAPDA) with four and three projects respec-
tively; the sector has also been assisted by the construction under the Indus
Basin Development Program of Mangla and Tarbela Dams.
27.     In the oil and gas sector, the two Sui gas transmission companies
have been assisted with five projects, while IDA has financed a petroleum
development project and begun to play an important role in strengthening the
public Oil and Gas Development Corporation. These efforts are assisting in
the efficient development and utilization of Pakistan's domestic energy
resources and in establishing a policy and institutional framework for
increased private investment in the sector. A second water supply project in
Lahore is currently under implementation. Five credits for education, total-
ing US$62.5 million, have assisted in upgrading primary, post-secondary and
higher technical and agricultural education, middle-level training of primary
teachers and agricultural extension agents.
28.     In addition to financing specific high-priority projects in key
sectors of the economy, the Bank has from time to time supported Pakistan's
development through program assistance. A first structural adjustment lend-
ing operation (SAL) was approved by the Executive Directors in June 1982.
This SAL program consists of a number of significant reforms in government
development planning and in policies and programs in the agriculture, energy
and industrial sectors.
29.     Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits
as of September 30, 1982, and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
Credit and loan disbursements have been generally satisfactory. Some
projects have experienced initial delays due to protracted government proce-
dures for project approval, which have now been streamlined, and to slowness



-9-
in the procurement of goods and services. Rapid turnover of managerial and
technical staff, in part due to migration to the Middle East, and budgetary
constraints have been problems in the case of some projects.
30.     A number of further projects for Bank Group financing are currently
under appraisal or being prepared in Pakistan. These include projects for
agricultural credit, drainage, oil and gas development, water supply and
education. Pakistan continues to have domestic resource constraints for the
reasons set out in Part I. To assist the Government to finance agricultural
and other high-priority projects which have a low foreign exchange component,
financing of some local expenditures in specific cases is justified.
31.     In addition to lending, economic and sector work provides the basis
for a continuing dialogue between the Bank Group and the Government of Pakis-
tan on development strategy, and for the coordination of external assistance
within the Pakistan Consortium.
PART III - THE ENERGY SECTOR
Energy Resources Base and Development Strategy
32.     In FY82 consumption of commercial energy in Pakistan was 13.7 million
tons of oil equivalent (TOE). This level of consumption is about one-tenth
of the world average per capita consumption and only one-half that of the per
capita consumption of all developing countries. The major consumers of
commercial energy were industry (32%), transport (20%), power (17%), and
residential (13%). In the period FY72/81 commercial energy supply grew at a
rate of 7.7% p.a. as shown in Annex IV, Table 1.
33.     Over the past decade the share of natural gas and hydroelectricity in
the total commercial energy supply increased while the relative importance of
petroleum products and coal was reduced. Coal supplied only 0.73 million
TOE, about 5.3% of total commercial energy supply. Its annual growth rate of
2.6% over this period was substantially less than the growth rate of other
energy sources. Despite the growth in total energy supply, consumption has
in recent years increased even more rapidly, requiring additional oil imports
and at times resulting in power and gas shortages. Unless the Government
takes remedial actions, the energy deficit is likely to become more severe
through the remainder of the 1980s.
34.     The recoverable crude oil reserves in Pakistan are presently
estimated at 70 million barrels; this figure is largely based on geological
surveys and has yet to be proven. Domestic production of crude averaged
9,500 barrels per day (bpd) prior to FY82 and provided only 9.0% of the
country's requirements for petroleum products. Due to enhanced production



-10-
from the Meyal and Toot fields and production from a recent discovery in the
south of the country, output is expected to increase by 5,000 bpd by the end
of 1983. Pakistan has, until recently, been relatively successful in
developing its domestic natural gas resources in consonance with demand.
However, over the past decade consumption growth has outstripped that of
supply and the supply-demand gap is now increasing rapidly. Proven
recoverable remaining reserves of gas in Pakistan are estimated at 12.9
trillion cubic feet, with the Sui field accounting for about 50% of these
reserves. FY82 production of natural gas was about 320 billion cubic feet.
Unless current and future exploration programs locate new gas reserves,
serious gas shortages will continue into the medium and long term. Total
coal resources of Pakistan are estimated at some 680 million tons. Offi-
cially reported production during FY81 was around 1.6 million tons which was
about the same as in FY80. In view of the uncertainty and increasing costs
of obtaining incremental gas and oil supplies, the Government is giving
increased importance to the development of the coal sector. From an
estimated 10,000 megawatts (MW) of economically recoverable hydro power, the
present installed hydro generation capacity is 1,847 MW, from which 9,043
million kilowatt hours were generated during FY81. The installed capacity of
thermal power plants (which are largely dependent on oil and natural gas for
fuel) is 1,813 MW, from which 6,900 million kilowatt hours were generated
during FY81. The only coal-fired thermal plant in the country is located at
Quetta and has a capacity of 15 MW. The country's only nuclear power plant
at Karachi (137 MW) generated 150 million kilowatt hours in FY81.
35.     Due to extensive lead times and large capital requirements for addi-
tional energy supply from hydroelectric, coal and nuclear sources, the
Government of Pakistan recognizes that over the medium-term a reduction in
the continuing energy supply deficits will depend principally on the
accelerated development of the country's proven oil and gas resources. To
this end, the Government has taken a number of measures to improve produc-
tion, efficiency and the institutional framework of the oil and gas sectors.
These measures include adjustments to producer and consumer prices for oil
and gas, both to reflect opportunity costs more realistically and to provide
incentives for new exploration and development. In addition, the Government
has initiated a program aimed at achieving greater efficiency in energy
utilization and conservation. Over the long term the Government is committed
to the development of economic alternatives of domestic energy resources
including increased utilization of coal, hydroelectricity, nuclear power and
renewables. In order to improve long-term energy planning, the Government
has retained foreign consultants as its planning advisors. Their respon-
sibilities include a review of the past and current energy situation, for-
mulation of the energy component of the Sixth Five-Year Development Plan
(FY84-FY88) and preparation of a 20-year perspective plan.



Energy Pricing
36.     In order to stimulate exploration and development of domestic energy
sources and to encourage energy conservation, the Government has taken
measures to gradually reach economic price levels for oil and gas. The
producer price for oil from new oil fields is around 85% of international
prices and consumer prices for petroleum products have kept pace with inter-
national petroleum price increases. However, a large distortion still
remains between natural gas prices and international fuel oil equivalents
(FOE). The current producer price for natural gas per 1,000 cubic feet (mcf)
amounts to US$ 0.26 to Pakistan Petroleum Limited (PPL) at its operations at
the Sui gas field. In 1982, the average gas price for domestic use was
US$1.37/mcf (35% of FOE) and for industrial use US$ 0.88/mcf (23% of FOE).
Under its structural adjustment program, the Government is raising natural
gas prices progressively to more economic levels, with a target in real terms
of US$ 2.64/mcf or 67% of FOE by FY88 (see paragraph 41). Coal prices are
not controlled by the Government but are determined on the basis of supply
and demand (see paragraph 54).
Institutional Framework
37.     Operational responsibilities for the various energy sub-sectors in
Pakistan are held by several public and private sector entities. The Oil and
Gas Development Corporation (OGDC) is a public sector entity involved in
exploration and field development of oil and gas. A number of international
oil companies and two private local companies also explore for and produce
petroleum under concession agreements and in joint ventures with OGDC or the
Government. Three oil refineries operate in Pakistan, two of which are
private companies and the other is in the puiblic sector. The oil distribu-
tion and marketing companies are state-owned. Natural gas purification,
transmission and distribution are largely in the public sector. Respon-
sibility for power gerieration lies with two autonomous government organiza-
tions: Karachi Electric Supply Corporation (KESC) for the Karachi area and
the Water and Power Development Authority (WAPDA) for the rest of the
country. The state-controlled Pakistan Atomic Energy Commission is respon-
sible for nuclear power generation. Coal exploration and development are
undertaken throughn leases granted to private mining companies, and by the
state mining organization, Pakistan Mineral Development Corporation (PMDC).
The Geological Survey of Pakistan (GSP) is also involved in coal exploration
under its mandate to study the country's geology. Prospecting licenses and
mining leases are granted and administered by the four provincial govern-
ments .
38.     Three federal ministries are involved in energy policy formation.
The Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Resources, which oversees inter alia
OGDC, PMDC and GSP, is responsible for planning and policy making for oil,
gas and coal. All matters relating to power generation are regulated by the
Ministry of Water and Power. The Ministry of Production oversees the public



-12-
sector refineries. Overall authority for national energy policy formulation
and coordination is entrusted to the National Energy Policy Committee (NEPC)
co-chaired by the Ministers of Finance and Petroleum. Although each Ministry
formulates its own plans, the role of coordinating the energy planning func-
tion is assigned to the Planning and Development Division of the Ministry of
Finance, Planning and Economic Affairs which also coordinates the project
approval procedure and the formulation of the various development plans.
Energy pricing decisions are submitted by the responsible ministry for
approval to the Finance Division and in major cases to the Economic Coordina-
tion Committee (ECC) of the Cabinet.
39.     The Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Resources has recently set up a
Coal Utilization Committee with wide ranging representation from the public
and private sectors. The main task of the Committee is to advise the Govern-
ment on alleviating constraints on the use and development of coal.
Role of the Bank
40.     The Bank has been actively involved in Pakistan's energy sector (see
also Part II). WAPDA has received three power loan/credits and a fourth
power project is being prepared; five loans/credits have been made for gas
pipeline development and a sixth has recently been appraised. The Toot Oil
Development Project, being executed by OGDC, is nearing completion and a
follow-up project has been appraised. A refinery engineering and energy
efficiency project was signed in January 1983.
41.     The Bank's recent economic dialogue with GOP has focused on issues in
the energy sector which is one of the major policy areas being addressed
under the Structural Adjustment Loan/Credit. This dialogue has assisted GOP
to formulate long-term plans for that sector and has led to agreements under
the SAL on important policy changes in the sector, including undertakings to:
(a) promote the accelerated exploration of concession areas held under
license by OGDC through, inter alia, the negotiations of private sector
participation; (b) implement GOP's revised gas development strategy through,
inter alia, inducing additional private investment; (c) progressively ration-
alize consumer prices of natural gas in relation to alternative energy forms;
(d) strengthen and reorganize OGDC; and (e) collect and analyze data leading
to the preparation of a long-term integrated energy plan for Pakistan.
42.     The Government has also requested the Bank's assistance in reviewing
Pakistan's mineral sector. This review, which is to be financed under the
IDA Technical Assistance Project (Credit 1256-PAK), will evaluate the
country's current non-fuel mining activities and the future potential of
mining projects. In this context the study will also examine the legal,
financial and institutional framework required for development of Pakistan's
mining sector and make appropriate recommendations. The coal sector will
benefit from this study. The terms of reference for the study have been



-13-
finalized and consultants selected. The work is being carried out over the
period March - May, 1983.
The Coal Sub-Sector
43.      Resources.  Little detailed geological mapping and investigative
fieldwork on coal has been undertaken in Pakistan. There are no comprehen-
sive geological maps for the coal regions showing mines, boreholes, shafts,
testpits, etc. The absence of data has inhibited the systematic evaluation
and orderly development of coal resources. However, geological surveys show
that Pakistan's coal resources are probably largely confined to the
south-eastern foothills of the central mountain ranges. The more significant
coal belts are in the areas of Sor Range-Sharigh-Mach, Mal-erwal-Salt Range
and Lakhra-Jhimpir. According to the latest evaluation conducted by the
Geological Survey of Pakistan (GSP), the total indicated coal resources of
the country amount to 678 million tons, of which only 15% have so far been
proved. Details on resources are shown in Annex IV, Table 2. The figures,
however, do not represent technically and economically mineable reserves.
The majority of Pakistan's coal deposits show unfavorable geological charac-
teristics including severe faulting and thin seams. In addition, most of the
coal found in Pakistan is low quality lignitic or sub-bituminous, with high
ash and sulphur content, poor coking potential and relatively low heating
value (4,700 kcal/kg). However, a limited number of coal basins in Pakistan
appear to have potential for economic development. The proposed project
would evaluate one of the more promising of these basins.
44.      Domestic Production and Consumption.  In the early 1950s, coal
production in what is now Pakistan was insufficient to meet local require-
ments, resulting in heavy dependence on imports, particularly of higher
quality coal. About 80-90% of domestic coal production was from
privately-owned mines; the rest was produced from government-owned mines at
Makerwal, Sharigh and Degari. Pakistan's coal production and imports rela-
tive to consumption are given in Annex TV, Table 3.
45.      In 1954, to enhance domestic production, the Government entrusted its
mines to the Pakistan Industrial Development Corporation (PIDC). With
increased output from the private sector and concerted efforts by PIDC,
production of existing coal mines was raised and an additional mine at Sor
Range opened. In 1972, to develop mineral resources further, the Government
established a separate entity under the Ministry of Petroleum and Natural
Resources, the Pakistan Mineral Development Corporation (PMDC), as the public
sector agency responsible for Pakistan's mineral development. These measures
led to a significant increase in domestic production of coal from 0.56 mil-
lion tons in 1954 to 1.29 million tons in 1972 and 1.57 million tons in 1981.
The public sector's contribution to coal production rose from 13% in 1954 to
38% in the 1970s but has subsequently declined to 22% in 1981.



-14-
46.     As consumption of coal has grown from 1.25 million tons in 1965 (the
earliest year for which consumption statistics are available) to 1.78 million
tons in 1981 at an annual rate of only 2.2%, its importance as a source of
energy has remained virtually unchanged.  During this period only the brick
kiln industry increased coal utilization from 0.90 million tons to 1.52
million tons 01-ILe coal demand fell in the other sectors.  The sectoral
consumption pattern is given in Annex IV, Table 4.
47.     Development Prospects.  In view of Pakistan's energy supply deficit
and the country's heavy dependence on oil imports, the Government is giving
increasing importance to the development of domestic coal production.
48.     Consequently, the Government foresees the need to convert brick kilns
and cement factories from gas to coal to the extent that this is technically
and economically feasible. Primarily as a result of conversions and expan-
sions in these industries, the consumption of domestic coal is expected to
increase from 1.58 million tons in 1981 to 3.50 million tons in 1988. This
expected increase includes supplies for the Karachi steel mill complex, which
will require some 70,000 tons per annum of washed coal with coking properties
from the Sharigh mine in Baluchistan. The expansion of existing production
facilities can possibly meet the anticipated growth in domestic industrial
consumption during 1982-88.
49.     Demand for coal for power generation is expected to remain constant
at about 30,000 tons p.a. through the Sixth Plan period (rY1984-FY88). The
possibility of developing new coal fields at Lakhra, Sonda/Thatta and Duki,
the site of the proposed project, to supply additional coal-fired thermal
power plants is being considered.
50.     A project study for a Lakhra power plant near Hyderabad in the
province of Sind was carried out in 1979/80 by the Japanese International
Cooperation Agency (JICA). It recommended a 300 MW power station based on
31.6 million tons of economically extractable Lakhra coal reserves and
requiring 1.2 million tons of coal per year. With a total estimated capital
cost of about US$1,000 million in current terms, cost of electric power in
FY88 would have been Rs 1.44/kWh (inclusive of a coal cost component of
Rs 0.50/kWh) compared to Rs 0.93/kWh for an oil-fired thermal power station
at that time. The high costs of the Lakhra coal thermal power project were
attributable to difficult mining, poor quality coal and infrastructure
requirements, including rail transport. Under USAID assistance the Govern-
ment has recently commissioned U.S. consultants to reexamine the Lakhra
project and identify a more economic design for the mine and power plant
complex. The final consultant report is scheduled for completion in April
1983.
51.     The Government through GSP is also carrying out preliminary geologi-
cal work in a coal field at Sonda in the Thatta District of Sind Province for
power generation and other uses. Reserves, however, have not been proven,



-15-
nor the coal's suitability and viability for power generation been estab-
lished.
52.     As result of a Government request for support in the development of
coal-fired power plants in Baluchistan, a Bank mission in June 1981 concluded
that the Duki coal field in an arid area east of Quetta has the best prospect
for development in the province. The coal field is now worked to a very
limited extent by a few small private operators. Preliminary information
indicates that geological features and coal quality of the Duki coal field
may result in coal production costs at a comparative advantage over the other
currently known coal fields in Pakistan and at a significant cost advantage
over imported steam coal or other available energy sources (notably fuel
oil). To supply the expected electricity demand in the region and to feed
power into the existing national grid which extends into Baluchistan, a power
plant in the range between 100 MW and 250 MW is currently envisaged, requir-
ing an annual coal production of 0.3-1.0 million tons depending on coal
quality and power plant size.
53.     Private Sector Participation.  Coal development by the private sector
is currently mainly dependent on the prospects for the brick industry, as
almost all private coal production in Pakistan is consumed in this sector.
The ready availability of comparatively cheap natural gas (averaging only 25%
in terms of fuel oil equivalent (FOE)) combined with its clean and
easy-to-handle properties has inhibited the growth of this market for coal.
Also, high sulphur and ash contents of indigenous coal are mentioned by
potential coal consumers as obstacles to coal use. The Government intention
to gradually increase the price of natural gas to bring it closer to its
economic value and other policy measures to promote the use of coal in the
brick kiln industry and cement and cotton-ginning plants should increase the
demand for local coal and stimulate the private coal industry. Proving of
economically and financially viable deposits at Duki, Lakhra and Sonda is
expected to generate increased private sector participation in the coal
sector.
54.     Coal Pricing.  As noted above (paragraph 36), coal prices are deter-
mined by market forces. While coal sales by PMDC are set on the basis of
tendering and one-year contracts, private coal mines and marketing companies
sell their products largely spot in the open market. Prices vary greatly
with coal quality, location and time of purchase (seasonal variations). In
Baluchistan and Punjab average prices at the mine range from US$29 to US$53
per ton; prices in Sind are between US$12 and US$20 per ton. In comparison
to fuel oil, coal costs ex-mine amount to 26% to 56% of FOE, i.e., well above
the average delivered price for natural gas (25% of FOE). Insufficient and
inefficient coal transportation and handling facilities increase delivered
coal prices substantially.



-16-
Baluchistan Province
55.     While Baluchistan covers 44% of Pakistan's land area, the province
accounts for only 5.1% (4.3 million) of the country's population. Baluchis-
tan possesses the majority of Pakistan's natural gas resources and has
deposits of coal, marble, chromium, barite, fluorite, sulphur, iron and
copper. Exploration and development of these resources have been hampered by
the remoteness of the area, lack of infrastructure and inadequate financial
resources.
56.     Baluchistan's economic development is considerably below the national
average, with the gross provincial product representing only 2% of the
country's GNP and per capita income 50% below the national level. Problems
in the province have been exacerbated by the huge influx of refugees from
Afghanistan. The Government has recently intensified efforts to accelerate
Baluchistan's economic growth. Anong a list of specific measures for achiev-
ing this, the authorities plan to: (i) accelerate exploration for mineral
resources; (ii) expand power and transport infrastructure; (iii) provide
special incentives to private investors; and (iv) identify projects to
attract foreign assistance and investment.
57.     One of the underlying reasons inhibiting the development of the
province is the acute shortage of power, despite its substantial reserves of
gas, coal and possibly oil. The Quetta thermal station is now the only
source of electric power with an installed capacity of 52 MW. Since demand
far exceeds the plant's capacity, Baluchistan is linked to the national grid
with a 220-132 KV transmission line running from North to South in the
province. WAPDA, however, needs to expand the transmission lines and add new
grid stations to meet the province's future electric power needs. In addi-
tion, it is necessary to stabilize the transmission system by also feeding
the grid from Baluchistan.
58.     The Government's special efforts in Baluchistan include measures to
assist the tribal population. Due to the province's arid climate and its
barren and mostly hilly country, there is limited land for cultivation.
Special consideration has therefore to be given to the effects of any major
industrial development on the economic and social conditions of the tribal
population. The proposed project would address these aspects (see paragraphs
69 and 70).
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
59.     In accordance with the Government's policy of increasing the use of
indigenous coal resources, the evaluation of the country's coal resources



-17-
has become a matter of priority. Because all coal-bearing areas have not
been fully identified and the extent of the known coal fields is not well
defined, the work necessary to carry out a nationwide mapping and drilling
exercise would require an extended time. Consequently, the Government has
decided to give priority to regions where good possibilities exist for the
discovery of economically exploitable reserves of coal. Coal production in
Pakistan has so far been developed primarily based on proximity to existing
infrastructure and historically recognized coal outcrops. This has resulted
in mine development in particularly difficult geological conditions, includ-
ing thin seams (2'-6'), high dip (60 -90°) and complex structure.  The
selected project area offers potential for the discovery of significant coal
reserves in seams over 4' thick in an area of relatively low dip (<300).
Such a coal reserve would be amenable to the development of
mechanized/semi-mechanized mining at potentially lower cost than existing
developments. The development of any mine in an area of identified coal
reserves would be specifically targeted to the production of coal for a
mine-mouth thermal power plant.
60.     The proposed project was prepared by WAPDA, PMDC and GSP and was
appraised in May 1982. Negotiations were held in March 1983. The Pakistan
delegation was led by Mr. M.Q. Siddiqui, Additional Secretary (Power), Minis-
try of Water and Power. Since this is an engineering credit no separate
Staff Appraisal Report has been prepared. Supplementary project data are
contained in Annex III.
Project Objectives
61.     The proposed project would be the Bank's first lending operation in
support of the Government's efforts to increase the use of coal and thus
reduce Pakistan's dependence on imported oil and the use of natural gas for
power generation and industrial use. The project's objectives would be:
(i) to provide geological data for the Duki area which is a little explored
but promising coal area east of Quetta in Baluchistan; (ii) to complete a
feasibility study for a coal mine designed to supply coal to a mine-mouth
thermal generating station; (iii) to carry out a technology assessment for
using minimum water and high sulphur coal in thermal power stations; and (iv)
to strengthen the technical capabilities of WAPDA and other agencies involved
in the project in coal related operations. The project should prove suffi-
cient coal reserves to produce 0.3-1.0 million tons per year of coal to feed
a 100-250 MW power plant. Such new generating capacity should provide an
energy base for the Government's planned industrial expansion in Baluchistan
and supplement and stabilize WAPDA's electricity grid extending to Baluchis-
tan.
Project Sponsors
62.     The Water and Power Development Authority of Pakistan (WAPDA) under
the Federal Ministry of Water and Power with headquarters in Lahore has been



-18-
assigned the responsibility to carry out the proposed project (see paragraph
76). WAPDA was established in 1958 and is Pakistan's largest public sector
organization. WAPDA's charter of duties includes responsibilities for (i)
the generation, transmission and distribution of power; (ii) irrigation and
water supply, drainage and flood control; and (iii) inland navigation. Its
revenues from power sales exceeded Rs 4,700 million (US$375 million) in FY81
and net profit amounted to Rs 1,870 million (US$150 million). During the
same year it h1ad an annual development program for water and power projects
of Rs 4,262 million (US$335 million).
63.     WAPDA is a well managed agency which has successfully implemented a
large number of Bank assisted projects. Within its organization, WAPDA has a
good team of technical personnel who are well experienced in the preparation
of feasibility studies and the implemenation of projects. WAPDA is also the
implementing agency for the Lakhra coal studies being financed by USAID.
64.     The Pakistan Mineral Development Corporation (PMDC), headquartered in
Karachi, is a holding company organization under the Federal Ministry of
Petroleum and Natural Resources. PMDC was created in 1972 when it assumed
responsibility for the operation of several small salt and coal mines which
were formerly under the Pakistan Industrial Development Corporation (PIDC).
Of its four coal mines, two are not operating profitably and an accumulated
loss of Rs 21.6 million (US$1.73 million) had been accrued by PMDC at the end
of FY81.
65.     From 1978 to 1980 PMDC was subcontracted by WAPDA to assist the
Japanese International Cooperation Agency (JICA) with the coal exploration
aspects of the Lakhra engineering study. While PMDC maintains a core of
experienced geologists and mining engineers mainly for its existing opera-
tions, its limited financial resources, organization and experience would be
a severe constraint to its implementing a comprehensive engineering study
such as this. It is therefore proposed that PMDC would assist WAPDA in the
exploration and mining feasibility components of the proposed project, a role
similar to its earlier role in connection with Lakhra.
Project Description
66.   The project would consist of:  (i) regional and detailed coal explora-
tion in the Duki area of Baluchistan; (ii) a feasibility study for a coal
mine; (iii) an assessment of current technology for using minimum water and
high sulphur coal in thermal power plants and (iv) technical assistance in
management, field exploration and pre-feasibility studies for coal related
projects.
67.     Coal Exploration.  This component would be conducted in three phases
in order to ensure that the proposed studies and initial exploratory program
would be carried out only after previous results had been evaluated and the
desirability of proceeding further had been established.



-19-
(a) The first phase would consist of researching and interpreting
the available geological data base, photogeological studies utilizing satel-
lite imagery as appropriate and initial geological field work. Existing
geological data would be compiled from all available sources within the
federal and provincial governments. There is also some data available from
records of existing artisanal mining in the area and some preliminary
geological mapping at scales of 1:250,000 and 1:50,000 for a portion of the
area. The incorporation of this available data on geology and coal resources
into a new preliminary geological interpretation of the area would be supple-
mented by specialist photogeological mapping. This new geological evaluation
would assist in the identification of priority areas and in the rejection of
areas clearly indicated to be non-prospective. The geological fieldwork
would determine the stratigraphy and structure of the known coal measures and
extend this data into new areas so as to identify exploration targets. The
fieldwork would consist of geological traversing, the drilling of an initial
ten test drill holes; the measurement of the stratigraphic section in
coal-bearing sedinents; the determination of the geological structure; the
opening up, describing, measuring and sampling of coal zones; and the comple-
tion of a preliminary geological evaluation of all areas of coal-bearing
sediments. An evaluation of this preliminary data would permit the selection
of areas which warrant a further reconnaissance drilling program based on the
assessed potential of the area for mine development.
(b) The second phase would consist of reconnaissance drilling with
approximately 30 widely spaced test holes in the areas selected in the first
phase, to verify the stratigraphy and structure of the coal-bearing sediments
as suggested by the initial mapping program. Additionally, reliable informa-
tion would be obtained on coal quality basel OnI the analysis and petrographic
study of unweathered coal cores recovered from the drill-holes. Data would
also be obtained on the physical characteristics of the associated floor and
roof rock strata which would be important for mine developnent planning.
(c) In the third phase, those areas which, following reconnaissance
drilling, show good potential, would be further assessed. A more detailed
exploration of one or more selected areas would be undertaken so as to obtain
all the data required for a feasibility study. During this third phase the
program would include drilling and evaluation of about 70 drill holes with an
accumulated depth of about 20,000 m. Additional geological mapping,
topographic mapping, test-pitting, bulk sampling and underground driveage,
would also be carried out.
68.     Regular interim progress reports and final reports for each phase
would be prepared and submitted to the Association. The transition from one
phase to another would be undertaken only after careful appraisal of results
of the preceding phase and agreement with the Association with regard to the
work program for the following phase. The Association would retain the right
to approve the next stage of the project and evaluate whether continued work



-20-
is warranted (Section 3.02(e) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
Consequently, at the conclusion of the preliminary exploratory work of the
first phase, the findings would be reviewed by the Association in conjunction
with the proposed work program of the second phase. Since significant finan-
cial commitments are required for the reconnaissance drilling program of the
second phase, IDA approval would be required for further works to be financed
with the proceeds of the Credit. Similarly, drilling of the third phase
would commence only after the results of the reconnaissance programs are
available and agreement has been reached with the Association (i) that one or
more deposits in the coal field have a likely technical and economic poten-
tial and (ii) that the work program for the third phase, including the selec-
tion of coal reserves to be subjected to detailed drilling, is satisfactory.
69.     Mine Feasibility Study.  This component study would determine the
economic, financial and technical mining viability of the most favorable
areas located by the exploration program. The areas to be studied for mining
viability would be selected in consultation with and subject to the approval
of the Association (Section 3.02(e)(iv) of the draft Development Credit
Agreement). The feasibility study would determine the alternative mining
systems that might be used to recover the coal and assess the infrastructure
requirements for the development of one or several coal mines to supply a
nearby thermal power plant. In particular, the feasibility study would
consider the optimum mine location in view of the information available from
the detailed drilling and the most likely powjer plant location. A tentative
mining plan and production schedule would be developed and the selection of
appropriate mining equipment would be made. Detailed capital and operating
costs would be estimated as input data for the succeeding power plant evalua-
tion. The safe operation of the mine and the training of both management and
labor would be provided for in the development plan. Particular care would
be taken to assess the environmental impact of the mine development, par-
ticularly with respect to possible pollution from acid water drainage
originating from the mine. Additionally, specialized experts would assess
the impact on the local tribal population in the area.
70.     Technology Investigation.  This component study would research the
latest available technical methods in the field of coal-fired thermal power
plants with specific reference to minimum water usage and the burning of high
sulphur coal with minimum environmental impact. The project area is arid
with limited water supply and it is very important to minimize the usage of
water by the coal mine and the power plant so as to preserve adequate water
for present and potential users both in the immediate tribal area and in the
downstream regions. To this end, WAPDA is preparing a detailed water study
(Section 3.07(a) of the draft Development Credit Agreement). Its preliminary
findings indicate that a perennial water supply of sufficient quantity and
quality from surface and groundwater sources can be maintained in the
prospective coal field area. The final findings of the water study will be
confirmed by an independent consultant because sufficient quantity and
quality of water are critical for cooling needs of a thermal power plant.



-21-
71.     The sulphur content of the Duki coal is expected to be high and it is
unlikely that washing the coal to minimize the sulphur problem would be
technically and economically viable. Therefore, the technology for using
high sulphur coal (scrubbers, fluidized bed combustion, etc.) and at the same
time reducing the environmental impact to a minimum would be evaluated.
72.     Technical Assistance.  In order to strengthen the technical skill of
the staff of WAPDA and other participating agencies such as PMDC and GSP in
management and execution of field exploration and coal related
pre-feasibility studies, technical assistance (including training) would be
provided throughout the exploration program and for the feasibility studies.
The training program will be developed by the consultants and agreed with the
Association not later than January 1984 (Section 3.06 of the draft Develop-
ment Credit Agreement).
Project Schedule
73.     As shown in the Project Implementation Schedule (Annex V), the total
program will take approximately three and a half years with completion
estimated by the middle of 1986. Work under phase one of the coal explora-
tion has been underway since November 1982 and its results should be avail-
able during the third quarter of 1983. A full feasibility study for the
power plant would be undertaken after feasibility of the ntine and coal
characteristics have been established under the proposed project.
Project Execution
74.     The preliminary exploratory work under Phase I of the exploration
program is presently being carried out by the Geological Survey of Pakistan
(GSP).  GSP's program will include:
(a) Geological mapping (1:50,000) of 4,480 sq km of an area
encompassing the Duki coal field;
(b) Detailed geological mapping (1:25,000) of the specific
Duki coal field comprising 1,500 sq km; and
(c) Exploratory drilling of 10 drill holes in the Duki coal
field with a cumulative depth of about 3,500 m.
75.     GSP has assigned its most senior geologist to this program; he will
head a team of six to seven geologists.  Its drilling teams are well
experienced. At the conclusion of the above mapping and exploratory drill-
ing, GSP will make its findings and all associated records available to WAPDA
(Section 3.07(b) of the draft Development Credit Agreement). As an
autonomous federal organization with many demands on its services, GSP does
not wish to carry out the detailed exploration of the proposed project which



-22-
can easily be contracted to drilling firms in an efficient, timely and
cost-effective manner.
76.     After completion of GSP's exploration program, all subsequent
detailed exploration, additional quality testing, coal mine feasibility
study, power pre-feasibility study and technological investigations would be
undertaken or directed by a Project Management Cell which has been estab-
lished within WAPDA and which is headed by an experienced geologist seconded
from PMDC on a long-term assignment. WAPDA will also retain additional
personnel from PMDC or otherwise to staff the Project Management Cell with
geologists and mining engineers for the implementation of the detailed drill-
ing program and mine feasibility study. The Project Management Cell would be
supported by internationally recruited consultants with qualifications and on
terms and conditions acceptable to IDA; the employment of these consultants
would be a condition of effectiveness (Section 5.01(a) of the draft Develop-
ment Credit Agreement).
77.     The Project Management Cell would be maintained throughout the execu-
tion of the project. The Project Director would report to the most senior
executive in WAPDA for power, the Member (Power), through the Chief Engineer
(Thermal), who would function as overall coordinator. He would be supported
by appropriate staff within WAPDA for the following key aspects of the
project: (a) Water studies; (b) Coal exploration; (c) Mining feasibility;
(d) Power pre-feasibility; (e) Technological investigations; and (f) Economic
assessment. The Project Director has already been appointed. The filling of
the position of project leader for coal exploration would be a condition of
Credit effectiveness (Section 5.01(b) of the draft Development Credit Agree-
ment).
78.     As PMDC would make a small core of coal exploration personnel avail-
able to WAPDA on a contract or secondment basis to serve in the Project
Management Cell in line functions or as counterparts to experienced consult-
ants, PMDC's staff would get exposure to exploration and project evaluation
techniques of general applicability.   This exposure should benefit PMDC in
the future evaluation of additional coal deposits. Furthermore, PMDC, which
eventually may be involved in the coal mine, will be able to keep abreast of
the progress of the project.
79.     The Government of Baluchistan (GOBAL), through the Directorate of
Industries and Minerals Development (DIMD), would grant prospecting licenses
or make other appropriate arrangements in accordance with the Baluchistan
Mining Concession Rules to permit WAPDA to carry out the regional coal
exploration. The acquisition of these licenses would be a condition of
Credit effectiveness (Sections 3.08(a) and 5.01(c) of the draft Development
Credit Agreement.) GSP as a federal government agency is exempt from such
licensing procedure. WAPDA would, under the Baluchistan Mlining Concession
Rules, have a maximum of three years in which to select areas for mining
leases. Areas not retained for the provision of coal to the mine-mouth



-23-
thermal power plant would he opened up for prospecting licenses and mining
leases and the geological data would be made available to all interested
parties including those in the private sector (Section 3.08(c) of the draft
Development Credit Agreement). The geological information made available
through the proposed project is expected to assist in attracting private coal
sector interest in carrying out development in identified prospective coal
bearing areas.
Project Cost and Financing
80.     The total project cost is estimated at US$8.8 million equivalent, of
which US$7.0 million would be in foreign exchange. Detailed cost estimates
are shown in the Credit and Project Summary. Major project foreign exchange
costs are for the exploration program (US$6.2 million), mine feasibility
study (US$0.6 million), technical investigation (IJS$0.1) and technical assis-
tance and training (US$0.1). The average cost of the highly specialized
foreign consultancy services, including travel, subsistance and reimbursable
costs, is estimated at US$14,000 per man-month which is considered
reasonable. The cost estimates for the proposed project are based on Novem-
ber 1982 prices and include 10% for physical contingencies. Price contingen-
cies are based on assumed annual inflation rates of 8.0% for FY83, 7.8% for
FY84, 7.0% for FY85 and 6.5% for FY86 for local costs, and 8.0% for FY83,
7.5% for FY84, 7.0% for FY85 and 6.0% for FY86 for foreign expenditures.
81.     The proposed Credit of SDR 6.5 million (US$7.0 million equivalent)
would cover 100% of the estimated direct foreign exchange component of the
project, and 80% of total project costs. The Credit would be made to GOP on
standard IDA terms. GOP would pass on the Credit to WAPDA as a normal
budgetary allocation. In the event that a mine development and power project
are undertaken with Bank or IDA assistance, the engineering costs financed
under the Credit would be capitalized and the proceeds of this Credit
refinanced. The balance of project expenditures in local currency estimated
at US$1.8 million would be financed by GOP. As the preliminary geological
work under Phase I of the proposed project, started by GSP in November 1982,
forms an essential part of the project, the estimated foreign exchange
requirements of about US$150,000 would be financed retroactively from the
proceeds of the Credit.
82.     GOP would provide GSP with the necessary local funds for the prelimi-
nary exploration phase. GOP would also be responsible for providing any
additional financing which may be required to cover any possible cost over-
runs, both in local and foreign currency, for timely completion of the
project. WAPDA would be required to submit to the Association financial
statements for the project, audited by an auditor acceptable to IDA, not
later than six months after the end of its fiscal years. WAPDA would main-
tain a special project account to record expenditures made under the proposed
project which would be made available to the Association for review on a
regular basis.



-24-
Procurement and Disbursement
83.     The contract for the drilling program to be undertaken during the
second and third phases of the exploration component is expected to total
US$5.2 million. This contract would be awarded on the basis of International
Competitive Bidding (ICB) in accordance with the Association's Procurement
Guidelines. Procurement of other equipment, including trucks and jeeps for
general transportation, would be by limited international tendering accept-
able to the Association. Individual packages would be linited to US$300,000
with an aggregate total ceiling of US$1 million. IDA would require prior
review of all bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $250,000 or
more. Specialized consulting services for -geological services, mining
engineering, coal preparation and preliminary power plant investigation are
estimated at US$1.3 million. Consulting services would be obtained in
accordance with the Association's Guidelines for the Use of Consultants.
84.     The Credit would be disbursed as follows:  (a) drilling services,
mining feasibility study, consultants and training: 100% of foreign expendi-
tures; (b) equipment, vehicles and spare parts: 100% of foreign expenditures
of directly imported goods, 100% of local expenditures (ex-factory) or 65% of
goods procured locally. Disbursement against all items would be fully docu-
mented. The proposed Credit is expected to be fully disbursed by the end of
FY87. If it is decided during project implementation that the exploration
program should be curtailed or abandoned a portion of the Credit may be
cancelled (see paragraph 68).
Environmental Issues
85.     The proposed project does not raise significant environmental issues,
as disturbances of the surface, such as drill sites, test pits, etc., would
be minor. The feasibility studies that form part of the proposed project
would include a preliminary assessment of the environmental impact of any
proposed coal mining project and the technology investigations would address
aspects of and attempts to minimize the potential environmental impact
primarily from sulphur pollution as a result of any subsequent developments.
Furthermore, the water study would assess the impact of the future develop-
ment on the agricultural and other needs in the area. The mine feasibility
study would address potential economic and social effects on the local tribal
population.
Benefits and Risks
86.     The proposed project is an important step toward broadening the
energy base in Pakistan and increasing the economic production of coal, thus
conserving natural gas and oil. Under the assumption that a power plant of
100 MW would be constructed as result of the'proposed project requiring an
annual coal consumption of about 300,000 tons, the country would save the



-25-
yearly importation of approximately 150,000 tons of fuel oil and obtain a net
annual foreign exchange saving in 1982 terms in the order of US$16 million.
If a 250 MW plant is built using 1.0 million tons per year, the estimated net
annual foreign exchange savings would amount to US$50 million.
87.     In addition, the basic geological knowledge acquired in the project
area would allow the Government to stimulate activity of the private sector
and, at the same time, provide the necessary background information for the
Government to invite bids for future coal mining leases.
88.     During the execution of the project, personnel of WAPDA, GSP and PMDC
would benefit from the transfer of exploration and engineering technology
through on-the-job training by consultants to be financed under the project.
This increase in the technical ability of the personnel would strengthen the
respective institutions so as to assure better reconnaissance and development
of coal resources in other areas of Pakistan.
89.     There is a risk, normally associated with this kind of operation,
that the exploration activities under the proposed project would not result
in locating economically, technically and commercially viable coal deposits.
To minimize the risk of ill-advised expenditures, the various phases of the
regional exploration component of the project would only be undertaken fol-
lowing a careful appraisal of the results of the preceding phase as described
in paragraph 68 above.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
90.     The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Islamic Republic
of Pakistan and the Association, and the Recommendation of the Committee
provided for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement are
being distributed to the Executive Directors separately. The following would
be special conditions of effectiveness: (a) consultants shall have been
appointed to the Project Management Cell (paragraph 76); (b) a project leader
for coal exploration shall have been appointed (paragraph 77); and (c) arran-
gements between GOP and GOBAL to ensure satisfactory implementation of the
project shall have been made (paragraph 79). Other special conditions of the
project are listed in Section III of Annex III.
91.     I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.



-26-
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
92.     I recommend that thte Execlitive Directors approve the proposed Credit.
A.W. Clausen
President
by E. Stern
Attachments
April 13, 1983
Washington D.C.



-27-
ANNEX I
TABLE 3A                                                     Page  1
PARISTAN --SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
PAXISTAN                       REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AV A0ES
AREA (THOUSAND SQ. XM.P                                                           - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
TCQTAL           803.9                                MOST RECENT            WW INCOHZ          MIDDLE INCOSE
AGRICULTURAL     249.9              1960  /b   1970 /b ESTDIATE /b        ASIA & PACIFIC       ASIA 4 PACIFIC
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                  70.0        130.0     300.0              261.4                   890.1
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)     132.4       190.6    209.2                448.7                    701.7
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS) 45851.0     60449.0  82153.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 22.1        24.9       28.2               17.3                     32.4
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                      134.5
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                       398.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                  2125
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                       57.0        75.2       99.2              158.1                   255.9
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    200.4       248.9      316.9              355.9                   1748.0
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                         43.8        46.3       46.5               36.8                    39.9
15-64 YRS.                         51.8        50.5      50.7                59.7                    56.8
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                   4.4         3.2        2.8                3.5                     3.3
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              2.3         2.8        3.1                2.0                      2.3
URBAN                              4.6         4.0        4.3                3.3                      3.9
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    51.3         47.4       43.6               29.3                    31.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    24.3         19.9       16.0               11.0                      9.8
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE              3.7         3.5        3.0                2.0                     2.0
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)       ..      1908.1    2085.0/c
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..          ..        6.0T,             19.3                    36.3
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)          89.0       102.0      101.0              108.1                    115.6
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                   87.8        97.1      98.8/d              97.3                   106.4
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          58.1        59.8       62.87d             56.9                    54.4
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       23.3        20.1       19.9Td             20.0                    13.9
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE     25.4        21.5       17.8               10.9                     6.7
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)   43.3         46.2       49.8               57.8                    59.8
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                          161.5       143.0      125.5               89.1                    63.7
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                               .,        21.0       29.0               32.9                    32.0
URBAN                               ..        77.0      60.0                70.7                    51.9
RURAL                               ..         4.0       17.0               22.2                    20.5
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                          3.0        6.0               18.1                    37.7
URBAN                               ..        12.0      21.0                72.7                    65.7
RURAL                               ..          ..         ..                4.7                    24.0
POPULATION PER PHYSICLN          5396.8      4299.1/f  3775.1/e,f          3297.8                  8540.4
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON    16961.8    13306.07! 10030.3/e,j           4929.3                  4829.4
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                           1794.5      1860.1    1903.4/e,f          1100.4                  1047.5
URBAN                            506.8       648.1      712.9/e7f          301.3                   651.6
RURAL                               ..    12478.5   11870.1:7e            5815.7                  2597.6
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED           ..          ..         ..                 ..                    27.0
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                              5.4         5.3
URBAN                              5.6         5.5
RURAL                              5.4         5.2
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                              3.1         2.8/S
URBAN                              3.1         2. 77.j.
RURAL                              3.1         2.8         .            
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                               ..        17.9         **
URBAN                                         54.4/5
RURAL                               ..         4.9/g       .



-28-
ANNEX I
Page 2
TABLE 3A
PAKISTXr1-CIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
PAKISTAN                         REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AV2A0GES
M- OST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
MOST RECENT           LOW INCOME           MIDDL 6Z1NC0M.
1960  lb    1970 /b ESTIMATE Lb        ASIA & PACIFIC        ASIA & PACIFIC
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENOLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                  30.0         44.0      56.0                 97.4                 96.2
MALE                  46.0         62.0       81.0               101.0                 99.8
FEMALE                13.0         24.0       31.0                87,8                 92.1
SECONDARY)   TOTAL                  11.0         14.0      16.0                 53.0                 37.6
MALE                  18.0         22.0       24.0                63.8                 41.1
FEMALE                 3.0          6.0        8.0                41.3                 34.1
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (E OF SECONDARY)   1.0            1.5        1.4                 1.7                 20.8
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             38.6         41,5      40.1                 37.7                 35.5
SECONDARY                           24.0         19.8      18.7                 20.2                 25.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         15.0/h       20.7/i    24.0                 52.1                 73.1
CONSUMPTION
F91n!OU CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           1.5          2.6       2.8/c                1.5                  9.8
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           6.0         17.1      65.8                 35.4                116.5
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPL'LATION                           ..          1.6       9.4                  3.2                 37.6
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   13.2           ..       13.7                16.4                 53.7
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  0.8            3.0OL      2.4                 3.6                  2.8
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    14447.7        17364.1   22717.1
FEMALE (PERCENT)                     8.6          9.3      10.2                 29.5                 33.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               61.0         59.0      57.0                 70.0                 52.2
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  18.0         19.0      20.0                 15.0                 17.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 31.5         28.7       27.7                40.0                 38.5
MALE                                  55.2         50.4       47.2                51.8                 50.5
FEMALE                                 5.7          5.5        5.9                23.8                 26.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.5          1.7        1.8                 1.0                  1.1
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   20.3/k         17.8
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  45.37k         41.8
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    6.47!          8.0
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   17.57F         20.2
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..         68.0/i   176.0                133.8                194.7
RURAL                                 4, 47,07    122.0                        111.5                155.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ,,         34.0/i    88.0                   ..                178.2
RURAL                                 ..         22.071    58.0                   ..                164.9
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ,,         42.0/i    32.0                 43.8                 24.4
RURAL                                 ..         43.071    29.0                 51.7                 41.1
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent EatEmate, between 1978 and 1980.
/c   1975; /d 1977; /e 1976; /f Registered, not all practicing in the country; /g 1973;
/h 1962; /i 1972; /i 1968; /k 1964.
May, 1982



-29-
ANNEX I
DEFINITlfll75 oF SOC7L IND7LNI9S                                                           Page   3
Notes   Although the data are dons  frn sources gnerally judged the m-st authoritative and relible, it should also be noted that they may not bh inter-
oastoeally comparable hbnause of the lack af otandarditad defnintioen  aud coocepts used by different ooncriou in collecting the data.  The data are, none-
theless, usful to doacribe orders of mognicod., indicato trends, and chaclctcin  certain mj-or differences betoeenonu- trcie.
The referenoe groapn ann (1) the same coontry group of tbh  subject country and (2) I co.ctry group vith nonhat highte sverago itnco=  than the country gEoon
of rho h 6ujet country, (except for  "'higb Incoe    ilEporters' group chore "Middle InCone North Africo and Middle font" in choset becaune If stronger
socio-culcural affiottios.   In ehoro ferente group data che aVrragra ore populatihon-gighted arIthmetic moans for oach indicotor and sho.n only chon
sajortop of the councroie  inagroup has data far that indicator.  Sinc  the coverage of countrios amenB the indicators depends -n the oailahlitp of data
and is not unifor, cootion Ru-t be txercieid in relatiog anerages of one indicotor to anotbhr.  Thtse noverage  are only tseful in -omparing the vatI- of
one indi-ator at a tine among the country and refecence groups.
AREA (thousand nq.k=.)                                                                       Population i ro  Eosapitl Bed - tota1, urbon. and rural - Populotion (tnoal,
Total - Total surface area comprising lnd area ad inland -atern; 1979 data.                 urban, and rurol) divided by their respective ntober nt hospital bodI
Agrcl.otural - Estimate of agricultural orea uod temporaeily or pornanonily                  atailable in public and pri-ate goneral and tpecialiood hospital and re-
for crops. pasturos, saket aud kitoben gordoen  or to lie falloc; 1979 dto.                hahilitationcrnters.  Honpitoln ore establishments pertanently onaffed
by -aIlos  n  physician.  E-tblish-enr  providing ptilcipallyos-
GfP PER CAPITA (USI) - tNP per capitoa esaten at currant mrkltt pricea, cal-                   dill care Ias   ont i anldod. Rarol honpitals. ho-ver  include bralth
Cilated by tame o=Yersion neehud an acrld Batk Atlas (19?SPdO ba-io); 19601                  and medical cters nor p=re.aontly otaffed by a physicnap (bit by a
1970  tDd 1980 data,                                                                          edical assistant. norm, =idyifo, etc.) cbicb offer in-patient aCCot[P-
datton and pen-ido a limited rung  of mdica  loilities.  For starts-
ENtRtY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA -  Anal connuoptlon of co=ercial energy (coal                    ticln par boind urb providE a,InEde IfitE pWnH cipol/gmeral hunpitals,
and ligoitce  petroleum, natural gas and hydro-, nuclear and geotht=rI vito-                -nd rural hospirala, local or rural tospituls and medical and gatterity
tricity) In kilogrt-s of coal - quiraleut par capita; 1960, 1970, and 1979                   cantern.  Specalieed hospiealo are included coIl undor teal.
data.                                                                                      Admissio..Cs partIepitl fed - Total t_ot- If anlslst or dinohorges
ftro  hospitals divided by the n...bt of bed.
POPCLATION Ab'D VITAL STATISTICS
Total Ppalastion. bid-Year ihunsandn) - Ai  of July 1; 1960, 1970, and 1980              hOUSING
data.                                                                                   Areag fr e  fnonbld(eno rr  oshod     crl urban,ad rrl
tUrban Poplation  (percent If total) - Rtio I uban to  otal poptultioc;                      A h    izabld on      of a group of indIvidual  vho shore lining quartert
different definicions of urban aroas may affect co-par-bility of data                      and their mai  meals.   A b-order no lodger may or -ae not be - tcluded in
omengcountrits; 1960, 1970, and 198f data.                                                 the household for ntatistical purpoes.
Population Projections                                                                     A verage nupber of persons per coon- total, urban, und coral -average cue-
Population in year 2000 - Current           n l t projection  rn bused no 198f            her of p.rsons pre room in all octb, and rural occupied convestinonl
total population by age and son and their mortality und fertility cocos                 dvellings, re-pectiely.  DEellicgs occlude Iot-pet-anent structures and
Projection pare-Lern I_  r  tarralicty rctoa co=prfson of chine IE'nll asout-           unoccupied parto.
iog life tupoctaucy on birth  increasingvith countryt pee capita irco=e               Atcess to Electricity (percent of dvellings) - total, arban, and rural -
level, and fetale life experctncy stabilizing or 77.5 year.   The para-                 Cnoveetional dslling   itch eIectriclity in living quarters as peng
mecers far f-rtility rate also bne chree lenls assu.ting decline in                      of total, urban, acd rucl dvellin:g repec-tnely.
fertility according to income lonel and past family planning porfor=ance
gach countty is then ansig-nd pnt of trhoo  nice cmbinations Of ttrtalcty           EDUCATItM
and feetility trends fur prjojction purpose.                                          Adiusted Enrollment iRaio
Stati.o.ry population - In a itaci.nary popolation there is noyrovth since                 Primary scheol - tocal, malt and fimalo - tross total,  ate and female
the birth rate is equal to the death rato, and Ilso che ago structure re-                  enrollment of all ages at the primary level an percentages of respactire
qains conitant.   This t achieved only  after fertility cacao dtcline to                   peity nehool-oge populations; onroolly includen  child-et aged 6-11
the replacement lenel nf unit net rrprdodcrion race, chen each generation                 years hut adjusted fot different lengths of primacy edu.t.ion; for
of neen replaces icelrf  xactly.  The itrtionary popolatin,on evas                         countrie  vithb universal education enrollment nay enceed 10  percent
enrlmctId on the basis of the prjofcted ohoracceriotice of the popilac_on                  nince none pupils are beov or abore the official -oonl ago.
Ln the your 2000. ad the rcte of decline of fertilitp  race to replace-                 Secondary school - total, male and femalo - Computed am abone;secondary
me    oe,e                                                                                 education requires at leant four years of approved prin5tyivstoaotioo;
Tear stationaty poeulation in reached - Tho year ohmb  statinonry pipulation                 provides genal, vocatiol, or teether training instructions fot pupils
;ito  vill he reached.                                                                    usoally of 11 to 17 yeari of ego; -orrespondencecourses art gonerally
Puputation DBonitE                                                                             xc_luded
fer u.  n. - 'dLd-ynac pnpulation per iquace kilometer (100 hrctaecm) of                 Vocationaf enrollnent (percent of  -eotnderyl - V-ocationl insttitutino
tot-l area;  1960  1970 and 1979 data.                                                  include technical, indusrisl, cr other profracs  hbich operata independ-
Per so  ka  ua.rcultural land - CppuCrd  ah bove for ogriCltoral lond                     enly o on  dep Ir...nts  of secondacy institutions
nly; 1961, 19 n         9 duta.                                                        Ypil-ieacher ratio - prigar,. and secondary- Total studentsnrolled in
Population dge itruoturt (ceroenr) - Childre-  (0-14 ytrs). nerking-age (1j-                 primary and secondary lerelt dirided by Iu-berI of toacthrs io Ch.
64 yens).  and retired (65 years and oet) as percentages of mid-yeat popo-                   i rresponding leeln.
lation; 196, i97at  and 19ff dact.                                                       MdIt liteacy rote (percent) - Literate adults fable to read acd -rite)
PpolEatlen trench Eate (percent) - total - Annual grovth rac-e  of total mid-                Ia peoccntage of total adult pupulotint aged 15 years ani over
year population for 195f-if, 1960i-7, and 1970-f80
Population Croyth  aite (per,ent) - rham - Anual gro-th rctes of urba- popu-            CONSUMPTION
lationt for 1950-60, 1960-70. and 1970-80.                                              Pasaenger Cars (per th....cd pepulatiot) - Pusenger camr  comprise metor
Ctude girth Bate (per thautand) - Annual line births per thousand of nid-year                oars seating lens  than eight peruons; moo loden cmbalaoce. . bearsei and
popttLation; 190, 1970, and lf98  data,                                                    oilitary vehicle
CrCda hath 7ste (par thund) - Annual deathi per thounand  of mid-year                      Radio Receiveri (per thoiusnd populatioo) - All typon of receivers for radio
population; 1960, 1970, and 1980 data.                                                     broadc-ts to general public per thousand of population; encludes on-
Croms Rsptod-ction Rate -Anerage number of daughter s vogn ill hear it                       licensed receivers in countries and it Ypert oben registr.ti.n  nf radio
bee noroal reproductive perind if Ih: sxpcriences presenc age-speoific for-                sets vas in affect; data foe recent years may not he cotparable since
tllity rates; .s.ally five-yent averages ending in 1960, 1970, and 19f.                      Ist _cou_tries abolished licensing
Pamily Planning - AC-optors, Annual (thousasds) - Annual number of ac-eptors               TV Reteivers (par thoumand popuiocI -n) - Yi retainers for bradca-t tt
of hirth-nontrl devices under auspices of natiocal family planning profrag .               general public per tI usand pepulacion; exclades unlioenied TV rereivers
Psmclr Plannina-gnatUss (percent of marriod women) -         Percentage of martied           in countries and in years chen rtgistration of TV sets ca  in effect.
cameo of child-be-ring age (15-44 years) cho use birth-cniCol  deric-s to                9evspaper Circnlation (per thauand population) - Sheen the average cir-
all married ce-n in sagr age group.                                                        culation of 'dsily grntal interest nnepaper', defined as a periodical
FOOD AND blUT'dITION                                                                           p be "daiLy" if itpriar   t  recsrdiog goneral noon   It in considered
Index of Fotd Production per Capita (1969-71=100) - laden of per capita atnual            Cinema Annual Atteedanco per Capite per Yeur-Banod on thr number of
production of all food -onsodities   PrFductnn rutcludes send aod feed and                 ticketi mold duritg tho ytar, including adnissions to driet-inocnecs
is on calondae year basis.  Cnditi   aoverr prinsry goods (e.g. sugrcane                   and mobile -nits.
inat_ad of sugar) vhict are edible and contogain  ftien  (. g. coff-e and
tea are 00 lodod).  Aggregate prod-ction of each country is hosed n                   LASORFORCE
national avetage prodnoer price eeightu; 1991-65, 1970, and I9dO data                   Total Lebor PoFce (thousacds) -         iconomicelly active p.r.os. including
Pet capita surrly of calories (Percent nf enoivenetro) - C.ep-ted fen=                      arcgd forces and unemployed hut e-cludiug hno ivei     itodents. etc.,
energy equinalenn  If net fnnd s-pplies  -ailable in country por oapita                   covoring pornlatinn nf oil agt.s  Definitions in venous countries Ire
per day.  Aailable supplies conpri-e dumeirdo prodoctioe, inperro less                     nor comparable; 1960, 1970 -nd 199O dac.a
enpcts. and changes to stock.  Net supptlies ecolide atimel ford, seed.                   Fegale (percent) - Pemtae labhr force an percentage nf total labor fore.
quantities uned in  food procesning, and louses in distribulin.  Requite-                 Agriculture (perceti) -       Cor force in forming. fnretry, hnntivg and
entis core estimated by FAl based tn physiolugicul needs fnr un-rel acci-                   fishitg as poroenrage of total labnr force  1960,1970 lE d 1980 data.
vity and health ton-idering -niromeontl t1-peroture. body ceights, ago                    Industry (percent) - Lohnr force in mining, onstruction  manufacturing
and son distribution of pnpalation-  and alloting 10 percent fon vaste at                   and electricity, vatsr aod gas as perceetage of total labor fori;
hanseh-Id level; 1961-6i5  1970 and 1911  data. I                                            1061970, and 199  dIca.
Per capita s-ppl       - of procein (grams per day) -  P  _oteinf cntert of Per capita    p.rticipaCino fate (percent) - total, male, and femala-Pateicipatnon or
net supply of food per day   let sunply of fond is defined as ubtun.  Ro-                 activity rates are loopCedond total, male. anld femal  iahnr force no
qnire=auts fnr nIl countries escabliohed by UEDA prnvide fnr mioicau                      percentagea  of rotat, malt and fnsle populatioo of a11 ogre r-spectiv-ly;
alleanoen nf 60 grams of tntal protein per day and 20 grmaR  of animal and                196g, 197f, and 19S0 data.  Thee ace bused no ILO.' participatioc rates
pulse prote-i, of whith 10 groma should be animal protlic.  Thost  tacd-                   reilectingage-se- sructure nf the populatinon  and long tine trend   A
ards are loner rhan those of P5 aroma of coral protein and 23 gruac  of                    fe_  _nosaces are fro=  -ational sources
asimal proneti  as an  .v.rag  for the norld. proposed by FAO in the Third              Elounoic Depredency Ratio - Satin af population  under 15 and 65 and over
Vorld Fond Su-tep; 1961-65, 1970 and 1977 data                                            to the total labor forte
Per "apita proteli sopply frn= oimtal and palsy - Prutein nupply of food de-
rived from animaiL and pulses if grams per dip; 1961-65, 1970 and 19717 datn.         INCOE DISTRIBUIT01'
Child (ages 1-4) Death Sate (per rhnovand) - Annual d-aths per th-nsand is                 Peroentage of Private Icnme (bnth in ca-h and khd) - Recei-ed by richest
age gtonp 1-4 yeats. to child-en in this age group, fur neit developing coun-              5 percent, richest 20 Pertcc, poorest 20 perceot, and porrest 40 percent
triet data derived from lifr rables  1960, f 9f and 1991 data.                            of ho-noholdo.
YLTd                                                                                       POVERTY TARRiT GROUPS
Life EIpeotancy at Birth (years) - Average n-mber nf years If life remaining               The folloving rst  rtes ore vrry :ppro-i=ate tmasures of ponerty leels,
or birth; 1960, 1970 ned 1OE0 dts,                                                        and ahould be interpreted vitb considerable oaotien
Infant drtality Bate free  _oasaand) - dAsmal dearhn of infanta ond-r oe y-ear            ErCimeted Abtnlure Porarep Income Lre1e (fSB per capira) - nban and roral -
of age Per thousand live hierha  1969, 1971 and 19ff data.                                 tbsaltn  poverty incomr  level is that iucume level beluc which a minimal
Acoe.s to FSfm Water  p.rocon-  Of Cpenti-on) _-r tol nebld   and rural - B-                  utritionally adequnte dint plus essential non-food reqaiteents is mat
her of pmsple (Ctota,  rhb.' and .rura) with  easnobhi  ne-s  mu safe                      affo rdable.
maser supply (antledee treated snrface caters or untreated hat usoentami-ated            Essimated Relative Poverty Income Level (UES pet capita) -Curbanad rural -
stoer *nch ae tha  fEro  proterred t orpholea  aprngs. gDd *anitary well-) as              Raralrelative porerry ioog lerl isaoe-third of average por caplta
perenst.sos of tair re-pe.ttmy  populations.  Inurban ara a public                        personal iecurr of the  quntry.  Utban level is derived fromsthe toer
fanetafi  yr s-tedpast leCated nort   e tha  2100  eters from a house may he              level with adjmatment for highor cast of living in urbn aeeas.
esmeideted as being within  -masnoable aIcaeF  of that huse.  In rural areas           EStimatod P-palastin BRl,m Absoluse Poverty  Inc   Lenel (percest) - arban
rea .able men.  would i4ply that the h.-e..ife .r mters of rho hossehold                  and rorol - Percent of pop tlatioo  (ortan and rorsi) who ara 'absolsee
do mat have to  peed a disprapertinmete parst  f the day  is fetching the                      i
familys ca ter eeds.
Acess  to  gere-ta DiJDo1 fperncet of popualao)- met. o             , aad raral -
N.abt of people (tmtal. vrbtn,  nd ratal) served by Ceerert  disoalat as
pernemtaeses of their remipsotine peop7raonss Ontrete aispqesa map Btinclde
ts  mail otiam  sd ditpos, Vitb or witassi trc-ti,st  ef hs-  soets
amd   te-ater by cater-bhone system  ne the see of pit priviis and SWi-
Bee i Bmtalltiovse.
P_eslatiam e    Phe-ieIan - Papolatie  divided by enum  nfg pf    ti ini phypi-                                                E..nomi' and Sei.sl Datsa Diaini
okam  qualifid frs  a seditem   chnol at aminersity ls.-l.                                                              _omsit Aealysis and PrajeeCins Departeemt
Poeslamoam per IsmeiDm   P sse   - P.pulatipt divided by nusr nf prsetisfaSg                                                               MIa  l9d2
_le sod  fe_iem graduate eess.  assisttt mRts  praststal s e  asd
emesgog mailiariss



-30-
ANNEX I
Page 4
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DATA
GROSS XATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1981/82                                 ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (2, constant prices)
US$ billion    %                   1969/70-1974/75  1975/76-1980/81  1981/82
GNP at Market Prices               31.68      100.0                       3.5                6.3            5.0
Gross Domestic Investment           5.14       16.2                     -5.5                 5.4-          11.9
Gross National Saving               3.70       11.7                     -2.1                 8.2            8.0
Current Account Balance            -1.53       -4.8
Resource Gap                       -3.48      -11.0
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND PRODUCTIVITY IN 1980/81 /8
Value Added           Labor Force         V.A. Per Worker
US$ million    2    US$ million    2    US$ million    x
Agriculture                        7,825       29         13.5       51          580         58
Industry                           6,827       26          5.2       20        1,313       131
Services                          12,053       45          7.9       29        1,526       152
Total/Average                   26,705      100         26.6      100        1,004       100
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Goverment                                Central Government
(Rs billion)             2 of GDP                (Rs billion)              % of GDP
1981/82       1981/82   1977/78-1981-82          1981/82        1981/82   1977/78-1981/82
Current Recepts                     51.2          15.9            15.8                39.0          12.1             12.4
Current Expenditures                44.4          13.8            14.1                34.1          10.6             10.6
Current Surplus/Deficit              6.8           2.1             1.7                 4.9           1.5              1.8
Capital Expendtures                 27.0           8.4             9.3                21.2           6.6              7.4
External Assistance (net)            6.3           2.0             2.8                 6.3           2.0              2.8
ONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES
1974/75 1975/76 1976/77 1977/78 1978/79 1979/80 1980/81 1981/82 b/
Money and Quasi Money                          33.1      41.6      51.7      63.7      76.5      90.7    103.5    114.4
Bank Credit to Public Sector (net)             17.5      22.7      29.5      34.3      43.1      48.1      54.1      59.9
Bank Credit to Private Sector (gross)          19.7      23.1      30.1      35.7      42.7      50.6      58.7      70.7
Money and Quasi Money as % GDP                 29.5      31.5      34.6      36.7      39.0      38.3      37.0      35.5
Wholesale Price Index (1969/70-100)           211.3    229.4    255.3    271.4    289.7    316.7    358.8    398.6
Annual Percentage Change in:
Wholesale Price Index                          23.6       8.6      11.3       6.3       6.7       9.3      13.3      11.1
Bank Credit to Public Sector (net)             21.2      29.4      18.8      16.6      25.6      11.6      12.5      10.7
Bank Credit to Private Sector (gross)          26.3      17.3      30.3      18.6      19.6      18.5      16.0      20.4
/a  Labor force data are official figures of the Ministry of Finance and Planning.
Serious underenumeration may exist, especially of women.
/b Provisional
February 1983



-31-
ANMn T
Page 5
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
(US$ million)                                   MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGING 1978/79-1981/82)
1976/77  1977/78  1978/79  1979/80  1980/81 /a  1981/82                                         US$ million          i
Exports of Goods, NFS               1,404     1,651     2,107    2,955    3,461           2,966        Raw Cotton                       260.5          11.5
Imports of Goods, NFS              2,877    3,297    4,485    _5,709    6,466            6,613         Cotton Yarn                      181.3           8.0
Cotton Cloth                    230.4           10.2
Resource Gap (deficit a -)        -1,473   -1,646   -2,378   -2,754   -3,005            -3,847         Rice                             382.7          17.4
All Other Commodities         1,196.9           52.9
Interest Payments                    -172      -183      -261      -285      -357         -453           Total                       2,261.8          100.0
Workers' Remittances                  578    1,166    1,395    1,748    2,097             2,225
Other Factor Payments (net)            15        62       134       151       274           345                 EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31, 1981
Net Transfers                          ..        .          .         .         ..
US$ million
Balance on Current Account        -1,052       -601   -1,110   -1,140        -991       -1,530
Public Debt, Including Guaranteed          8,813.9
Direct Foreign Investment              ..        ..        ..        ..        ..            ..        Non-guaranteed Private Debt /e
Net MLT Borrowing
Disbursements                       961       841       813    1,134        956        1,102           Total Outstanding and Disbursed          8,813.9
Amortization                      -175      -122       -235      -310      -516         -492
DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1981/82 /f
Sub-Total                          786        719       578       824       440          610                                                   Percentage
Transactions with IMF&                 44        41       -14        78       315           358
Public Debt, Including Guaranteed             12.2
Other Items n.e.i. /c                  24       163       238       600       527           364        Non-guaranteed Private Debt
Increase in Reserves (-)              198      -322       308      -362      -291           198          Total                                       12.2
Gross Reserves (year end)/d           372       694       386       748    1,039            841        IBRD/IDA LENDING (DECEMBER 1981) (US$ million)
IBRD    IDA
Official Gold (year end;
million ounces)                     1.6       1.7       1.8       1.8.      1.8           1.8        Outstanding and Disbursed              310.1   908.8
Undisbursed                             32.1   505.3
Outstanding, Including Undisbursed 342.2 1,414.1
Fuel and Related Materials
Petroleum Imports                     413       497       539    1,237      1,602        1,683
Petroleum Exports                      27        63        61       178       160           185
Rate of Exchange
Through May 11, 1972    May 11, 1972-Feb. 15, 1973    Feb. 15, 1973-Jan. 7, 1982               January 8-Aug. 31, 1982 Average
US5 - Rs 4.7619                US$ - Rs 11.00                     US$ - Rs 9.90                        US$ - Rs 11.46
Rsl - US$0.2100                Rsl - US$0.0909                    Rsl - US$0.1010                      Rs  - 0.087
/a Government estimate.
7b Including Trust Fund.
/c Including net short-term borrowing and errors and omissions.
Id Foreign exchange and SDR holdings of the State Bank.
Ti Private debt is negligible.
If  Ratio of debt service to exports of goods, mon-factor services and worker's remittances;
not including short-term or IMF changes.
/g Since January 8, 1982, value of rupee is being managed with reference to a
weighted basket of currencies.
Not available.



-32-
ANNEX II
Page 1
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PAKISTAN
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of September 30, 1982)
(US$ million)
Loan/                                                    (Amount net of cancellations)
Credit    Fiscal                                                                  Undis-
Number     Year    Purpose                                Bank   TW       IDA    bursed
Eighty-four loans and credits fully disbursed /a         635.8           720.7/e
1107      1975   Fourth Sui Northern Gas                  53.0            --       0.7
1208T     1976   Power (Second WAPDA)                     --    32.0      --       1.6
620       1976   Seed Project                             --              23.0    6.5
630       1976   Second Lahore Water Supply               --              26.6    4.6
648       1976   Irrigation & Drainage (Khairpur)         --              14.0    6.7
1366T     1977   Livestock Development (Punjab)           --    10.0      --       9.3
1372)     1977   Railways                                 35.0            --       1.0
684 )     1977   Railways                                                 25.0    1.1
678        1977   Third Education                         --              15.0    7.0
751       1977   Hill Farming Development                 --               3.0    1.6
754       1978   Salinity Control & Reclamation           --              70.0   68.8
755       1978   Hazara Forestry Pre-investment           --               1.7    1.4
813       1978   Punjab Ext. & Agric. Dev.                --              12.5    7.2
846       1978   Fauji Fertilizer                         --              55.0    3.4
867       1979   Toot Oil & Gas Development               --              30.0    0.9
877       1979   Salinity Control & Recl. (Mardan)    --                  60.0   58.5
892       1979   Primary Education                        --              10.0    8.3
922       1979   Sind Agricultural Extension              --               9.0    9.0
957       1979   Agricultural Development (ADBP)          --              30.0   10.8
968       1980   Power (Third WAPDA)                      --              45.0   36.6
974       1980   Third Highway                            --              50.0   39.7
1019      1980   Development Finance (PICIC XI)           --              40.0   16.9
1109/d    1981   Vocational Training                      --              25.0   24.8
1113 d    1981   Small Industries                         --              30.0   29.9
1157/d    1981   Grain Storage                            --              32.0   32.0
115875    1981   Agricultural Research                    --              24.0   24.0
1163/d    1981   On-Farm Water Management                 --              41.0   38.8
11867     1982   Industrial Development (IDBP II)         --              30.0   30.0
2122      1982   Telecommunication IV                     40.0            --      40.0
2166      1982   Structural Adjustment                    60.0            --      59.1
2172/f    1982   Fertilizer Industry Rehabilitation   38.5                --      38.5
12397   /d 1982   Irrigation Systems Rehabilitation    --                 40.0   40.0
12437- /d 1982   Baluchistan Minor Irrig. & Agr.          --              14.0   14.0
12557w    1982   Structural Adjustment Credit             --              80.0   80.0
12567-    1982   Technical Assistance Credit (SAL)    --                   7.0    7.0
1278/d    1982   Eleventh Railway Project                 --              50.0   50.0
Total                                                    862.3  T575  1,613.5  nWF7
of which has been repaid                               447.3   --       30.5
Total now outstanding                                    414.9  42.0  1,583.0
Amount sold                   23.9
of which has been repaid    23.9                        --     -        --      --
Total now held by Bank and IDAW                          414.9  42.0  1,583.0
Total undisbursed                                        139.3  10.9    659.5  809.7
/a  Excludes the disbursed portion of loans and credits wholly or partly for
projects in the former East Pakistan which have now been taken over by
Bangladesh.
/b  Not yet effective.
/c  Prior to exchange adjustment.
75  IDA Credits under the 6th Replenishment denominated in SDRs.  The
principal is shown in US$ equivalent at the time of negotiation.
Undisbursed amounts are computed at the August 31, 1982, rate of 1.07234.
/e  By using the rate at August 31, 1982, 1.07234, $41 million was disbursed
under Credit 1066-PAK, now fully disbursed. This amount is shown as
current principal for 1066-PAK.
/f  Effective on October 21, 1982.



-33-
ANNEX II
Page 2
B.  STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of September 30, 1982)
Fiscal                                                Amount  In US$   Million
Year    Obligor                Type of Business       Loan   Equity    Total
1958     Steel Corp of          Rolled Steel           0.63     --        0.63
Pakistan Ltd.         Products
1959     Adamjee Industries   Textiles                 0.75     --        0.75
Ltd.
1962-    Gharibwal Cement       Cement                 5.25    0.42       5.67
1965     Industries Ltd.
1963-    PICIC                  Development             --     0.52       0.52
1969-                           Financing
1975
1965     Crescent Jute          Textiles               1.84    0.11       1.95
Products
1965-    Packages Ltd.          Paper Products        19.35    0.84      20.19
1980
1967-    Pakistan Paper
1976     Corp Ltd.              Paper                  5.38    2.02       7.40
1969     Dawood Hercules        Fertilizers            1.00    2.92       3.92
Chemicals Ltd.
1969     Karnaphuli Paper       Pulp and Paper         5.60    0.63       6.23
Mills Ltd.
1979     Milkpak Ltd.           Food and Food          2.40    0.38       2.78
Processing
1979     Pakistan Oilfields   Chemicals and           29.00    1.82      30.82
Ltd. and Attock       Petrochemicals
Refinery Ltd.
1980     Fauji Foundation       Woven Polypropy-       1.78     --        1.78
lene bags
1980     Premier Board          Particle Board         2.70     --        2.70
Mills Ltd.
1981     Habib Arkady           Food and Food
Processing            3.15    0.17        3.32
1982     Asbestos               Cement                 3.60     --        3.60
Total Gross Commitments                     82.43    9.83      92.26
Less: Cancellations, Terminations,
Repayments and Sales                 48.85    1.02      49.87
Total Commitments Now Held by IFC           33.58    8.81       42.39
Undisbursed (including participants)        17.36    0.35       17.71



-34-
ANNEX II
Page 3
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Credit No. 771         Tarbela Dam:  US$35 Million Credit of March 10, 1978;
Effective Date: April 4, 1978; Closing Date: June
30, 1982
Work to construct a flip-bucket at the outlet of Tunnel No. 4 is in
progress and will be completed in 1983. Serious erosion in the plunge pool
below the service spillway during 1977 necessitated additional protection
works which, together with work in the downstream channel, were completed
in June 1980. Similar protection work in the auxiliary plunge pool was
completed in 1982. Since 1975, irrigation requirements from the dam have
been met. Power generation by the first four units began in 1977. Con-
struction of a second power plant with four units is in progress. All
Credit proceeds have been disbursed; the Bank continues to administer the
Tarbela Development Fund.
Loan No. 1107          Fourth Sui Northern Gas:  US$60 Million Loan of May
15, 1975; Effective Date: July 5, 1975; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982
This project has been completed.
Loan No. 1208-T         Second WAPDA Power:  US$50 Million Third Window Loan
of February 19, 1976; Effective Date: April 30,
19.76; Closing Date: September 30, 1982
All major works have been completed. One outstanding retention
payment for about US$650,000 is expected to be disbursed shortly.
Credit No. 620         Seed Project:  US$23 Million Credit of March 29,
1976; Effective Date: November 29, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1983
Delays have continued to be experienced in the construction and
equipping of processing plants in Punjab, due mainly to disputes with civil
works contractors and structural defects in the buildings. The plant in
Sind has been completed. Field activities have made good progress.
I/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



-35-
ANNEX II
Page 4
Credit No. 630         Second Lahore Water Supply, Sewerage and Drainage
Project: US$26.6 Million Credit of June 8, 1976;
Effective Date: September 21, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
All major works have been contracted but construction delays have
continued and will probably cause a further delay in project completion.
Detailed action plans to improve operational and financial performance have
recently been agreed.
Credit No. 648         Khairpur Tile Drainage and Irrigated Farming Develop-
ment Project: US$14 Million Credit of July 22, 1976;
Effective Date: March 14, 1977; Closing Date: July
31, 1984
Overall progress is about three years behind schedule due to ini-
tial delays in employing consultants, procurement problems and difficulties
in installing the subsurface collector drains. Canal remodeling, surveys
and extension services are proceeding satisfactorily. Additional equipment
is being procured to improve the rate of construction.
Loan No. 1366-T        Punjab Livestock Development:  US$10 Million Third
Window Loan of February 18, 1977; Effective Date:
August 3, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1983
The reformulated project has been approved by the Executive Direc-
tors and GOP and GOPun have signed the legal documents. The contract for
the rehabilitation of the Lahore Milk Plant (LMP) has been let and
preparatory work is under way. An outstanding issue is the appointment of
three consultants to strengthen LMP management.
Loan No. 1372          Tenth Railway:  US$35 Million Loan and US$25 Million
and                 Credit of March 8, 1977; Effective Date:  May 9,
1977; Credit No. 684         Closing Date:  Decemer 31, 1982
The project is proceeding satisfactorily. The telecommunications
and signaling scheme is making good progress and the complete network is,
expected to be commissioned before mid-1983. Procurement has been com-
pleted and the total proceeds of the Loan/Credit have been committed.
Credit No. 678         Third Education:  US$15 Million Credit of February
18, 1977; Effective Date: July 6, 1977; Closing
Date: December 31, 1983
The project is generally making good progress. Curriculum improve-
ments have been satisfactorily carried out. Nearly all civil works con-
tracts have been completed except at Quetta and Rahim Yar Khan where con-
struction of the Agricultural Training Institutes has been delayed for
about one year due to site problems. At Sind Agricultural University
construction is also behind by one year due to initial delays in appoint-
ment of project implementation staff.



-36-
ANNEX II
Page 5
Credit No. 751         Hill Farming Technical Development:  US$3 Million
Credit of December 1, 1977; Effective Date: March 7,
1978; Closing Date: September 30, 1983
Staff shortages and lack of a decision on upgrading field assis-
tants have caused implementation problems. Nevertheless, the vegetable
seed, maize production, service laboratory, training and apple production
components are proceeding satisfactorily.
Credit No. 754         SCARP-VI:  US$70 Million Credit of January 19, 1978;
Effective Date: December 28, 1978; Closing Date:
November 30, 1986
Although the project is about three years behind schedule, sig-
nificant momentum has now begun in project implementation following the
resolution of budgetary and other initial problems. Progress has been made
in awarding the first civil works contracts and obtaining necessary equip-
ment, vehicles and materials.
Credit No. 755         Hazara Forestry:  US$1.7 Million Credit of January
29, 1978; Effective Date: July 14, 1978; Closing
Date: December 31, 1983
There has been significant progress in different project
activities. The Guzara socio-economic study, the chir pine forest inven-
tory and the pulping tests for chir pine have been completed. However, on
the basis of a forest resource assessment study, the immediate development
of an economically sized pulp mill had to be ruled out; the scope of the
feasibility study will therefore be broadened to include a range of
development options. Terms of reference are now being prepared and field
work on the next phase of the study will start in the Spring of 1983.
Credit No. 813         Punjab Extension and Agricultural Development:  US$
12.5 Million Credit of June 6, 1978; Effective Date:
September 12, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The project is behind schedule despite some progress in staff
recruitment, acquisition of building sites and construction work. Implemen-
tation of the T&V system and the research-extension linkages continue to be
weak. Low salaries for village level staff and delays in recruiting con-
sultants remain problems.
Credit No. 846         Fauji Fertilizer:  US$55 Million Credit of September
14, 1978; Effective Date: December 19, 1978; Closing
Date: June 30, 1982
The plant is in operation.  Final disbursements are expected to be
completed by December 1982.



-37-
ANNEX II
Page 6
Credit No. 867         Toot Oil and Gas Development:  US$30 Million Credit
of January 12, 1979; Effective Date: April 25, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Two new producing oil wells in the Toot field have recently been
completed despite very difficult drilling problems but well-drilling and
management problems persist. Project implementation is about 15 months
behind schedule. The Closing Date, originally December 31, 1981, has been
extented to March 31, 1983, to allow completion of the original 8-well
drilling program.
Credit No. 877         Salinity Control and Reclamation Project (SCARP)
Mardan: US$60 Million Credit of February 7, 1979;
Effective Date: October 16, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1986
The project has been reduced in scope and initial budgetary and
other problems have been resolved. CIDA (the project co-financier) is
assisting WAPDA in scheduling implementation activities as well as in
preparing subsurface drainage design and specifications. Although about
two years behind schedule, work is accelerating on the preparation of the
final designs and tender documents for the restructured project. Some
contracts have been awarded.
Credit No. 892         Primary Education:  US$10 BTillion Credit of April 18,
1979; Effective Date: October 23, 1979; Closing
Date: June 30, 1985
The project is progressing steadily. Nearly all of the project
inputs including civil works, equipment, staff appointments and training
have been provided. The evaluation program has been redesigned and a
comprehensive proposal for the improvement of primary education is expected
to be completed by June 1983.
Credit No. 922         Sind Agricultural Extension and Adaptive Research
Project: US$9 Million Credit of June 12, 1979;
Effective Date: June 26, 1981; Closing Date: June
30, 1984
Critical staff has been recruited and project implementation has
started, although well behind schedule. Implementation of the T&V system
and research-extension linkages remain weak. Recruitment of consultants
has been delayed.



-38-
ANNEX II
Page 7
Credit No. 957         Fourth Agricultural Development Bank:  US$30 Million
Credit of December 7, 1979; Effective Date: June 5,
1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Overall progress of the agricultural credit component has been
satisfactory. The agricultural engineering training component in NWFP is
50% completed; implementation in Punjab is about to begin. Funds for ADBP
onlend- ing are about 70% disbursed and will be fully disbursed by June 30,
1983.
Credit No. 968         Third WAPDA Power:  US$45 Million Credit of January
10, 1980; Effective Date: July 30, 1980; Closing
Date: December 31, 1984
Despite some delays, mainly in land acquisition, execution of the
project is proceeding satisfactorily. Procurement schedules and construc-
tion targets for substations and transmission lines are generally being
met.
Credit No. 974         Third Highway:  US$50 Million Credit of April 9,
1980; Effective Date: August 21, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984
Of the five rehabilitation contracts, two are nearing completion,
one has been terminated due to poor performance by the contractor and
re-awarded, and work is progressing slowly on the remaining two contracts.
Discussions-are in progress on equipment procurement and provision of
technical assistance to two provincial governments to improve road main-
tenance.
Credit No. 1019        PICIC Industrial Development:  US$40 Million Credit
of May 30, 1980; Effective Date: October 29, 1980;
Closing Date: March 31, 1984
About US$35 million had been authorized for 28 projects and US$23
million had been disbursed by September 30, 1982. PICIC's recovery program
is on target.
Credit No. 1109        Fifth Education (Vocational Training):  SDR 19.7
Million Credit (US$25 Million equivalent) of April
24, 1981; Effective Date:  October 27, 1981; Closing
Date: December 31, 1986
The project has made progress in many areas, although there has
been slow progress in the establishment of In-plant Training Advisory
Services in the provinces and in the appointment of staff for the Provin-
cial Training Boards and the National Training Development Institute. The
Government has agreed to a new timetable for appointing staff and develop-
ment of a staff training and work program for these institutions.



-39-
ANNEX II
Page 8
Credit No. 1113         Small Industries:  SDR 23.6 Million Credit (US$30
Million equivalent) of April 24, 1981; Effective
Date: October 6, 1981, Closing Date: December 31,
1985
About $750,000 had been committed by July 1982. Selection of
consultants has been completed for the service centers and for the expert
promotion component activities; building construction and procurement of
machinery and equipment are in progress.
Credit No. 1157        Grain Storage:  SDR 26.1 Million Credit (US$32 Mil-
lion equivalent) of October 21, 1981; Effective Date:
March 15, 1982; Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Construction of the storage facilities is progressing satisfac-
torily although there have been delays in hiring of consultants and staff,
and in making training arrangements.
Credit No. 1158        Agricultural Research:  SDR 33.4 Million Credit
(US$24 Million equivalent) of August 19, 1981; Effec-
tive Date: June 14, 1982; Closing Date: December
31, 1986
Most of the staff required to operate the project have been
recruited and the procedures to appoint a consultancy firm to provide
technical assistance are well advanced. Preliminary selections have been
made for the first 40 overseas training fellowships. Architects have been
appointed, designs for civil works completed and construction commenced at
the National Agricultural Research Center.
Credit No. 1163        On-Farm Water Management:  SDR 33.4 Million Credit
(US$41 Million equivalent) of August 19, 1981; Effec-
tive Date: March 31, 1982; Closing Date: December
31, 1984
This Credit was declared effective on March 30, 1982.
Credit No. 1186        Second Industrial Development Bank of Pakistan  (IDBP
II): SDR 26.7 Million Credit (US$30 Million equiv-
alent) of February 19, 1982; Effective Date: June
14, 1982; Closing Date: June 30, 1985
This Credit was declared effective on June 14, 1982.
Loan No. 2122          Fourth Telecommunications:  US$40 Million Loan of
April 13, 1982; Effective Date: June 9, 1982; Clos-
ing Date: June 30, 1987
This Loan was declared effective on June 9, 1982.



-40-
ANNEX II
Page 9
Loan No. 2166           Structural Adjustment:  US$60 Million Loan of  June
23, 1982; Effective Date: September 9, 1982; Closing
Date: December 31, 1983
This Loan was declared effective on September 9, 1982.
Loan No. 2172           Fertilizer Industry Rehabilitation:  US$38.5 Million
Loan of June 23, 1982; Effective Date: October 21,
1982; Closing Date: June 30, 1986
This Loan was declared effective on October 21, 1982.
Credit No. 1239        Irrigation Systems Rehabilitation:  SDR 33.5 Million
Credit (US$40 Million equivalent) of June 3, 1982;
Effective Date: May 15, 1983; Closing Date: Decem-
ber- 31, -1985
This Credit is not yet effective.
Credit No. 1243        Baluchistan Minor Irrigation and Agricultural
Development Project: SDR 12.5 Million Credit (US$14
Million equivalent) of June 3, 1982; Effective Date:
January 5, 1982; Closing Date: December 31, 1988
This Credit was declared effective on January 5, 1983.
Credit No. 1255        Structural Adjustment:  SDR 71.9 Million Credit
(US$80 Million equivalent) of June 23, 1982; Effec-
tive Date: September 9, 1982; Closing Date: Decem-
ber 31, 1983
This Credit was declared effective on September 9, 1982.
Credit No. 1256        Technical Assistance:  SDR 6.3 Million Credit (US$7
Million equivalent) of June 23, 1982; Effective Date:
September 9, 1982; Closing Date: December 31, 1985
This Credit was declared effective on September 9, 1982.
Credit No. 1278        Railways XI:  SDR 44.3 Million Credit (US$50 Million
equivalent) of July 13, 1982; Effective Date: Sep-
tember 13, 1982; Closing Date: December 31, 1985
This Credit was declared effective on September 13, 1982.
Loan No. 2218          Refinery Engineering and Energy Efficiency Project:
(Us$12 Million Loan of January 17, 1983; Effective
Date: April 17, 183; Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
This Loan is not yet effective.



-41-
ANNEX III
Page 1
PAKISTAN
COAL ENGINEERING PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I:  Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare project:
18 months
(b) Agency which prepared project:
Water and Power Development Authority (WAPDA)
(c) Date of first presentation to IDA and date of first IDA
mission to consider the project:
June 1981
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission:
May 20, 1982
(e) Date of completion of negotiations:
March 25, 1983
(f) Planned date of effectiveness:
August 31, 1983
Section II: Special IDA Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) The following are recommended as special conditions of
effectiveness:
(1) Consultants shall have been appointed to support the
Project Management Cell (paragraph 76);



-42-
ANNEX III
Page 2
(2) The project leader for coal exploration shall have
been appointed to the Project Management Cell
(paragraph 77);
(3) Arrangements between GOP and GOBAL to ensure satisfactory
implementation of the project shall have been made
(paragraph 79).
(b) The Borrower shall not initiate any work under the drilling
or mine feasibility components without prior consultation
with and the approval of the Association (paragraph 68).



-43-
ANNEX IV
Table1
PAKISTAN - COAL ENGINEERING PROJECT
COMMERCIAL ENERGY SUPPLY BY SOURCE
(Million TOE)
Annual
FY72   % of Total   FY81   % of Total   Growth Rate
Natural Gas             2.52       35.7       5.74      41.8             9.6
Petroleum Products      3.03       42.9       5.04      36.6             5.8
Hydroelectricity        0.91       12.9       2.18       15.8           10.2
Coal                    0.58        8.2       0.73       5.3             2.6
LPG                     0.01        0.0       0.04        0.3           28.4
Nuclear                 0.02        0.3       0.03        0.2            3.8
Total           7.07     100.0      13.76      100.0            7.7
Sources:  Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Resources, and Planning and
Development Division.



-44-
ANNEX IV
Table 2
PAKISTAN - COAL ENGINEERING PROJECT
DOMESTIC COAL RESOURCES
(Million Tons)
Proved    Probable    Possible    Total
(a) Punjab
1.  Makerwal/Gullakhel            1            5           10          16
2.  Salt Range                    6           60           20          86
Sub-Total            7           65           30         102
(b) Baluchistan
1.  Sor Range-Degari             12           33            -          45
2.  Khost-Sharigh-Hamai          10           50            -          60
3.  Mach                          6           15            -          21
4.  Duki                          -            -           40          40
5.  Pir Ismail-Ziarat             -            -          100         100
6.  Sor Range-Kutch               -            -           30          30
Sub-Total           28           98          170         296
(c) Sind
1.  Lakhra                       62           44          134         240
2.  Jhimpir-Meting                5           10           25          40
Sub-Total           67           54          159         280
TOTAL              102          217          359         678
Source: GSP and PMDC.



-45-
ANNEX IV
Table 3
PAKISTAN - COAL ENGINEERING PROJECT
PAKISTAN COAL PRODUCTION AND IMPORTS VS. CONSUMPTION
(Million Tons)
Reported Domestic               Total      Import as % of    Reported
Year        Production       Imports   Supply       Total Supply    Consumption
1950          0.44             0.61      1.05          58.1             N/A
1960          0.83             0.56      1.39          40.3             N/A
1970          1.29             0.06      1.35           4.4            1.50
1980          1.57             0.02      1.59           1.3            1.59
1981          1.57             0.16      1.73           9.2            1.78
Source:  PMDC and Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Resources.
ANNEX IV
Table 4
PAKISTAN DISTRIBUTION OF COAL CONSUIPTION
Users                              Percentage Share In:
1965    1971    1981
Brick Kilns                          70       75       96
Power                                 12      10        2 a/
Residential                            3       2      1.3
Other                                 15      13      0.7
100     100      100
a/ Because of a pricing dispute between WAPDA and PMDC,
the thermal power plant in Quetta was closed for most
of 1981. After referring the matter to higher
Government levels, a satisfactory solution was found.
Sources: Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Resources and
PMDC.



-46-
ANNEX V
PAKISTAN - COAL ENGINEERING PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
1983             1984              1985             1986
I   II  III  IV  I  II  III  IV  I  II  III  IV  I  II  III  IV
A. Exploration
(i) Regional - Phase 1 (GSP)
Phase 2
(ii) Detailed
B. Mine Feasibility
C. Technology Assessment
D. Technical Assistance



iBRD 16888R
-        76a                                   68-                                 72                                API-L 1VAPI  Lo831
U. S S~<  ~
PA K STA N
PAKISTAN COAL EXPLORATION  PROJECT
MAJOR COAL DEPOSITS                                                                  /
e      -36                          O    Approximate Locations of                                                                3ndann.9j
Major Coal Deposits
&    National Capitaol                                                 tlJ                  - 
o    Cities and Towns                                               it4.                    J
National Roads
Primary and  Secondary Roads                                                              Appo-rso- Ama , ,,enale Lo CLnir- 
Railways                                                    leln       aanr
*    Airports                                             6S[AMARA[
K~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Rivers                                    'U           ¼-. >4  -4 Oht ip.nd.
Provincial Boundaries
Inrternotional Boundaries         (U                            - _            JheItl-"
]2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~$ 1. /4
32'                                                                                                            03~
? <, _,0,, t)                                        P/K ISAA               N                    F     D 1,
*  -.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
28- ISLAMIC                                                                                                              _28
REP. OF
IRAN 
)                       .            :           a/tVnd,orn  () 0                          °100    200      300      400
|   ./         .. Z            ,  .,  /1 t N   D    <                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~K IOMETERS
kn, th.  '.S,1t't^   nace
.otpot,n n o.The d nn-at-,
Bod,, S)x am  >(u  any tnt  bonenIna   shown
-atIot The A/dd  ank -ndth    24e
- any ,,dte t Itory   irgn
664'                                  68t '                                72'






320                                                                       64                                                                                 680                                 r N           F
~~~PAKISTANRAITAJ
PAKISTAN COAL EXPLORArION PROJECT                                                                                     -n C'                           ,
PROJECT AREA AND COA. DEPOSITS                                                                                              '
Baluchistan\H                                                                                                   zno'       f-
P-c no Are               d0   'S ,r   bo I1                                             ao#          Z *- *I
ofl  Moraos   Doos et  -                                                                     Q Sr.erod0oS o R-1.,  I  S H  -I  E k M   J     S
P Isootmoro on nor  -  - -   Onlnrmen 0'u . ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~;", -- 
+                                                                /                           1K' q ~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~ ~                                                         ~~                    ~         ~~7000  on;--   ; oadoro ois;  
7~~~~~~~~~70
I                             [room 0~~~~~~~~~D... ... oore
5000             ~PorolRooon 
------  3000                                                                          ?     --'A ,                                        r
~*> | ' 14* i  iS;'D 'Poonr iast9                                                                                                      <  P/7,87pleD5,|    A
| tK - K H A R A ~~~,1              -   .....  I    B'9. - . -......  /A 
C                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~(Noooc [-on E rtty Cars)                       I (brOb
ISLAMIC   REP. OF IRAN    j            'I '                                                        B                                   1%7 .AF  -/,HA    i
MAR
K LOhETtRS              '  '\                   tA                  i      J           +N                         D1 K AtLA V                      rt 51t l9 4    t*or
H, -A G A                                 o                    o,  /                                                 B         T    9 PUNJAB
TL Ybet  T      R  f>5 A  To.or ,,                                ta                                             r8P ) TernNITA ro    IN. n
~~~~~U>                                                        j                          G\V       ADAR                                    -    ' __ k  _  / fArS     L  A   /  7oe- MoeinmI
280                                                                                                          I~~~I
..  _  -~~~< ,_ . ............ f s ---~~~or  --                               Obodh                                                         ItEr  --enoOC   orOro//   2/ |N
A       R   A                                                                       S         N         D  ooo;eroaronoFoor,noU.tr /) 
ISLAMI     REP   OF  IRAN                                                                                                  HbCowl<                                   O                                 1
~~~_____.___ _____,_,.__.___            __,_... .                                  _        r                    _._ C___.__O To__ro,__ Loo
0               010              150                                ~                                                                                                                 rorrroooornr
MILES                                            P         J~ N G CU   R                                                                                                       roonenr
-  --  --  --       -  -
KR   A   N ~~~~~~~~~~~~~.Ae \:  \.ENL A
G  W  A   D  A   R                                                                                                                                        Z"I As(BELA*> .r
0  0                                   3    ~~~~~~~~~o~~~n-
64r0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~8



