                                              Document of
                                          The World Bank

                                    FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

                                                                                  Report No: 84294-RW




                                    RESTRUCTURING PAPER

                                                  ON A

               PROPOSED PROJECT RESTRUCTURING
                             OF
  REGIONAL COMMUNICATIONS INFRASTRUCTURE PROGRAM (PHASE 2) -
                  RWANDA PROJECT (RCIPRW)

                                       GRANT NO. H426-RW

                                          September 30, 2008


                                                TO THE

                                     REPUBLIC OF RWANDA


                                           January 29, 2014




TWICT
AFR


This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.
                    ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

APL      Adaptable Program Credit/Grant
IDA      International Development Association
IRU      International Right of Use
PDO      Project Development Objective
RCIP     Regional Communications Infrastructure Program
RCIPRW   RCIP (Phase 2) - Rwanda Project
RDB      Rwanda Development Board
RURA     Rwanda Utilities Regulatory Authority




             Regional Vice President:       Makhtar Diop
       Regional Integration Director:       Colin Bruce
                   Country Director:        Diarietou Gaye
                     Sector Director:       Jose Luis Irigoyen
     Senior Manager/Sector Manager:         Chris Allen Vein/Randeep Sudan
                  Task Team Leader:         Peter Silarszky

                                        2
                          AFRICA
 REGIONAL COMMUNICATIONS INFRASTRUCTURE PROGRAM (PHASE 2) -
                 RWANDA PROJECT (RCIPRW)

                                                        CONTENTS

                                                                                                                                   Page
A.   SUMMARY ........................................................................................................................... 4
B.   PROJECT STATUS .............................................................................................................. 4
C.   PROPOSED CHANGES ...................................................................................................... 5




                                                                  3
REGIONAL COMMUNICATIONS INFRASTRUCTURE PROGRAM (PHASE 2)
               RWANDA PROJECT (RCIPRW)

                                RESTRUCTING PAPER


A. SUMMARY

1.      The Regional Communications Infrastructure Program (Phase 2) - Rwanda
Project (RCIPRW), Grant No. H426-RW, P106369, approved by the World Bank’s
Board of Executive Directors on September 30, 2008, is part of the Regional
Communications Infrastructure Program (RCIP) approved on March 29, 2007. The
Project Development Objective (PDO) of RCIPRW is to contribute to lower prices for
international capacity and to extend the geographic reach of broadband networks.

2.     The proposed restructuring would be the first for this project and the proposed
changes would include (i) an extension of the closing date by eighteen months from
January 31, 2014 to July 31, 2015, and (ii) a reallocation of the proceeds of the IDA
Grant H426-RW pursuant to the letter dated August 26, 2013 from the Ministry of
Finance and Economic Planning of the Republic of Rwanda. The extension would allow
for completion of the activities under the project and full achievement of the PDO.

3.     The project development objective continues to be relevant and achievable. The
proposed changes are consistent with the PDO, RCIP program principles, and the project
description as originally approved. The proposed changes are also consistent with the
breakdown in regional/national IDA allocations; i.e., all activities are still eligible for
regional IDA funds as they have not changed in nature.


B. PROJECT STATUS

4.      RCIPRW has made significant progress to achieve its PDO and its disbursement
rate improved significantly over the last two years. The Progress towards achievement of
PDO rating is Satisfactory while Overall Implementation Progress is rated Moderately
Satisfactory and Project Management is rated Moderately Satisfactory. By December 17,
2013, US$16.55 million (SDR 10.75 million) has been disbursed from the IDA grant,
representing over 70 percent of the grant proceeds of SDR 15.3 million. Over 80 percent
of the grant has been committed. The last Implementation Support mission was
conducted in June 2013.

5.      The two largest contracts for the pre-purchase of international Internet bandwidth
for the Government (the primary focus of the project due to both its impact on the
broadband connectivity of Rwanda to the world and the allocated budget representing
almost 50% of the grant) were successfully awarded and signed in mid-2012. The tender
resulted in very competitive price for the international bandwidth thanks to tender design
and strong competition between the bidders. The first contract (bandwidth from Europe
delivered to Rwanda through submarine cables and terrestrial fiber in Tanzania) has been

                                             4
successfully implemented and fully disbursed and the provided capacity brought great
benefits to Rwanda's population in terms of faster and more reliable Internet access and
lower prices. The implementation of the second contract (bandwidth from Europe
delivered to Rwanda through submarine cables and terrestrial fiber in Kenya and Uganda)
was delayed due to quality of service issues on the fiber optic infrastructure in Uganda
and the full bandwidth activation date had to be extended. The problems were resolved
by end of August 2013 and the international bandwidth is currently being provided
through Kenya and Uganda as well. However, the final payment funded from the
proceeds of RCIPRW (US$2.2 million) is due one year after the full bandwidth activation
according to the contract, i.e., in August 2014, which is after the original closing date and
necessitates the extension of the Grant.

6.      Several critical technical assistance assignments, capacity building activities, and
in-house advisory and technical support have been also successfully completed in support
of the Rwanda Utilities Regulatory Authority (RURA), Ministry of Youth and ICT
(MYICT), and Rwanda Development Board (RDB). Advisory work on interconnection
and infrastructure-sharing has been completed and the results have been implemented in
regulatory decisions. This work was implemented in response to direct requests from the
Government and has met the client's needs. Additional technical assistance (e.g., on
mobile number portability and broadband connectivity to institutions) is underway.

7.      Some work has been also undertaken in connecting district offices and
establishing of Wi-Fi networks on campuses of 3 universities in order to provide access
to the international bandwidth. However, the bulk of the sub-component supporting the
roll-out of broadband services and supply of broadband connectivity to institutions
leveraging the existing networks of private operators (according to the PAD, this was
supposed to be competitively tendered, so, that operators compete on the basis of price to
provide the services) was delayed by the Government which has instead decided to award
all radio spectrum made available for 4G/LTE broadband networks by the analogue-to-
digital TV switchover to a new operator entering the market. This will, in effect, create a
monopoly for such networks for 25 years and lead ultimately to less innovation, higher
prices, and inferior services. This policy effectively negates the primary drivers of all the
successes achieved in the telecommunications sector in Rwanda and Africa over the last
10-15 years (i.e., market liberalization and infrastructure based competition) and is
against the core principles of the RCIP program to promote further market liberalization
and competition. A consultant was recently hired to assist with the detailed design of this
component and is expected to complete the design by end of April 2014; the proposed
extension would allow for this consulting assignment to be completed and this sub-
component potentially implemented if it can be designed to be consistent with both the
implications of the Government’s decision described above and RCIP core principles.
However, there is a risk that this part of the grant (about US$3.5 million) might have to
be cancelled eventually if the design effort is unsuccessful. The consultant has just started
his work and it is premature to judge whether an appropriate design can be identified; the
World Bank team is actively engaged with RDB (the implementing agency), MYICT,
and the consultant on the design of the sub-component. The potential cancelation of this
sub-component would have no effect on the achievement of the targets for PDO level
indicators and would affect one intermediate result indicator.

                                              5
8.      This would be the first closing date extension of the project. The proposed
extension meets the criteria of OP/BP 10.00, i.e., (a) the project objectives continue to be
gachievable; (b) the performance of the borrower and project implementing agency is
satisfactory; and (c) the World Bank and the borrower has agreed on a specific action
plan that will be undertaken by the borrower to complete the project. Neither the credit
nor the country is under suspension of disbursements; and there are no outstanding audit
reports or audit reports that are not satisfactory to the World Bank.


C. PROPOSED CHANGES

9.      Reallocation of Proceeds. The reallocation of proceeds of the grant was requested
by the Government of Rwanda mostly from Category (5) Unallocated (i.e., contingency)
to categories used for actual disbursements which require additional funds due to higher
than expected cost of some originally planned activities and/or to finance scaled up
technical assistance. The proceeds of the Regional Communications Infrastructure
Program (Phase 2) - Rwanda Project (RCIPRW), Grant No. H426-RW, P106369 is
proposed to be reallocated as follows:

                                                                  % of Expenditures
                                    Allocation (SDR)
Category of Expenditure                                                Financed
                                  Current         Revised        Current       Revise
(1) Goods, works,                3,430,000       4,149,000         100          100
consultants’ services
(including audits), and
Training for Parts 1, 2(c),
and 3 of the Project
(2) Goods, works,                2,550,000       2,737,000          100             100
consultants’ services
(including audits), and
Training for Part 2(a) of the
Project
(3) Goods, works,                8,270,000       8,012,000          100             100
consultants’ services
(including audits), and
Training for Part 2(b) of the
Project
(4) Operating Costs              310,000          402,000           100             100
(5) Unallocated                  740,000              0
TOTAL                           15,300,000       15,300,000

10.     Extension of Closing Date. The closing date for the Regional Communications
Infrastructure Program (Phase 2) - Rwanda Project (RCIPRW), Grant No. H426-RW,
P106369 is proposed to be extended from January 31, 2014 until July 31, 2015. The
proposed extension is necessary to allow for the disbursement of the last payment of the
second international Internet bandwidth contract, complete several technical assistance
                                             6
assignments, and reach an agreement on the way forward and potentially implement the
supply of broadband connectivity to institutions sub-component within the proposed
extended closing date in line with the actions agreed with the Government of Rwanda.
This extension will have no effect on the achievement of the original project results other
than the time delay.




                                             7
