                                  Document of
                               The World Bank




                                                        Report No: ICR00003486



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                           (IDA-H4260)



                                     ON A

                                    CREDIT

                   IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 15.3 MILLION

                       (US$24 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                   TO THE

                           REPUBLIC OF RWANDA

                                    FOR A

  REGIONAL COMMUNICATIONS INFRASTRUCTURE PROGRAM (PHASE 2)
                     RWANDA PROJECT

                                 UNDER THE

     REGIONAL COMMUNICATIONS INFRASTRUCTURE APL PROGRAM



                               December 15, 2015




Transport and ICT Global Practice
Rwanda – Eritrea, Kenya, Rwanda, Uganda Country Management Unit
Africa Region


                                       i
                      CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                  (Exchange Rate Effective July 31, 2015)

                 Currency Unit = Rwandan Francs (RWF)
                        US$ 1.00 = 690.00 RWF
                           US$ 0.717 = SDR1

                             FISCAL YEAR

                             July 1 – June 30

                 ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


AOS      Africa Olleh Services Ltd.
ARTEL    Telecommunications Company
BSC      Broadband Systems Corporation
CMU      Country Management Unit
CPS      Country Program Strategy
EDPRS    Economic Development and Poverty Reduction Strategy
GDP      Gross Domestic Product
GIS      Geographical Information System
GoR      Government of Rwanda
GOVNET   Government-wide Network
GPRS     General Packet Radio Service
ICT      Information and Communication Technology
IDA      International Development Association
IFMIS    Integrated Financial Management Information System
IRU      Indefeasible Rights of Use
ISP      Internet Service Provider
ISR      Implementation Status Report
LAN      Local Area Network
M&E      Monitoring and Evaluation
MYICT    Ministry of Youth and ICT
NCB      National Competitive Bidding
NICI     National Information and Communication Infrastructure
NTB      National Tender Board
ORN      Olleh Rwanda Networks
PAD      Project Appraisal Document
PDO      Project Development Objective
PFM      Public Financial Management
PRSC     Poverty Reduction Support Credit
PSCBP    Public Sector Capacity Building Project
QAG      Quality Assurance Group
QEA8     Quality at Entry Assessment


                                    ii
RCIP      Regional Communications Infrastructure Program
RCIPRW    Regional Communications Infrastructure Program – Rwanda
RDB       Rwanda Development Board
RITA      Rwanda Information Technology Authority
RURA      Rwanda Utilities Regulatory Authority
RVP       Regional Vice President
SAP       Service Access Point
SIDA      Swedish International Development Cooperation
TRACNET   Treatment and Research AIDS Centre
USAID     United States Agency for International Development
VLP       Virtual Landing Point
WIBRO     Wireless Broadband
Wi-Fi     Wireless local area networking technology
WIMAX     Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access

          Senior Global Practice Director: Pierre Guislain
                       Practice Manager: Boutheina Guermazi
                    Project Team Leader: Arleen Cannata Seed
                    ICR Primary Author: Cecilia Paradi-Guilford




                                       iii
                        REPUBLIC OF RWANDA
  Regional Communications Infrastructure Program (Phase 2) – Rwanda Project



                                                        CONTENTS


Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph

  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 6
  3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 10
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 17
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 17
  6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 20
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 21
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 22
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 23
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 25
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 31
  Annex 5. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 33
  Annex 6. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 40
  Annex 7. Overview of the telecom sector in Rwanda .................................................. 41
  Annex 8. ICT Glossary ................................................................................................. 45
  Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 48
  MAP .............................................................................................................................. 49




                                                                 iv
                                                                          Regional
                                                                          Communications
Country:                Africa                  Project Name:             Infrastructure
                                                                          Program (Phase 2) -
                                                                          Rwanda Project
Project ID:             P106369                 L/C/TF Number(s):         IDA-H4260
ICR Date:               11/02/2015              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
Lending Instrument:     APL                     Borrower:                 Republic of Rwanda
Original Total
                        XDR 15.30M              Disbursed Amount:         XDR 15.23M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         XDR 15.30M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
 Rwanda Development Board (RDB)
Co-financiers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                               Revised / Actual
     Process              Date            Process              Original Date
                                                                                   Date(s)
Concept Review:       01/07/2008     Effectiveness:             01/16/2009       01/16/2009
Appraisal:            08/28/2008     Restructuring(s):                           01/29/2014
Approval:             09/30/2008     Mid-term Review:                            03/23/2012
                                     Closing:                   01/31/2014       07/31/2015

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Moderate
Bank Performance:                               Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Moderately Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings               Borrower           Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory            Government:      Satisfactory
                                                Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Moderately Satisfactory                  Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower
                        Moderately Satisfactory                  Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                                    Performance:




                                                v
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                            Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                         Quality at Entry
                           No                                              None
at any time (Yes/No):                              (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           No                                              None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original            Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Public administration- Information and communications                 21                  21
Telecommunications                                                    79                  79
Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Administrative and civil service reform                               17                  17
Infrastructure services for private sector development                33                  33
Regional integration                                                  33                  33
Regulation and competition policy                                     17                  17

E. Bank Staff
       Positions                          At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:            Makhtar Diop                         Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili
Country Director:          Diarietou Gaye                       Mark D. Tomlinson
Practice
                           Boutheina Guermazi                   Philippe Dongier
Manager/Manager:
Project Team Leader:       Arleen Cannata Seed                  Mark D. J. Williams
ICR Team Leader:           Arleen Cannata Seed
ICR Primary Author:        Cecilia Maria Paradi-Guilford


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
To contribute to lower prices for international capacity and to extend the geographic reach of
broadband networks

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
Not applicable




                                                 vi
(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target      Formally      Actual Value
                                              Values (from         Revised       Achieved at
   Indicator          Baseline Value
                                                 approval          Target       Completion or
                                               documents)          Values       Target Years
Indicator 1:      Volume of International Traffic
Value
quantitative or   235                       600                               11,684
Qualitative)
Date achieved     09/30/2008                01/31/2014                        07/31/2015
Comments
                  Overachieved by 1,947%. Target reached: 09/30/2010. Measured in Megabits per
(incl. %
                  second (Mbs/s). The connection to the fiber optic enabled this dramatic growth.
achievement)
Indicator 2:      Volume of National Traffic: Internet user penetration
Value
quantitative or   726                       4,500                             2,515,689
Qualitative)
Date achieved     09/30/2008                 01/31/2014                         07/31/2015
                  Overachieved by 55,904%. Target reached 12/31/2011. It is measured as number
Comments
                  of broadband subscribers. The introduction of mobile broadband significantly
(incl. %
                  contributed to this dramatic growth. The purchase of international capacity
achievement)
                  enabled this dramatic growth.
Indicator 3:      Volume of National Traffic: Total teledensity (fixed and mobile)
Value
quantitative or 9.4                         15                                71.23
Qualitative)
Date achieved 09/30/2008                    01/31/2014                        07/31/2015
                Overachieved by 475%. Target reached 12/31/2009. It measures access to
Comments
                telephone services for fixed mainlines and cellular phones per 100 people. The
(incl. %
                rapid growth of cellular telephony penetration was underestimated at appraisal
achievement)
                and contributed to this growth.
Indicator 4:    Price of wholesale international capacity link from Rwanda to European hub
Value
quantitative or 10,000                      4,000                             125
Qualitative)
Date achieved 09/30/2008                    01/31/2014                        07/31/2015
                Overachieved by 3,200%. Target reached 12/31/2009. The connection to the
Comments
                fiber optic in Kenya and Tanzania, both landing points for international cables,
(incl. %
                substantially supported this growth. The purchase of international capacity
achievement)
                further enabled this drop.




                                                  vii
(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target                      Actual Value
                                                                 Formally
                                              Values (from                        Achieved at
   Indicator          Baseline Value                              Revised
                                                 approval                        Completion or
                                                               Target Values
                                               documents)                         Target Years
Indicator 1:      Expenditure in previous Fiscal Year on 10 biggest projects as % of budget
Value
(quantitative     80                        80                                 100
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     09/30/2008                 01/31/2014                        07/31/2015
Comments          Overachieved by 125%. Target reached 09/30/2010. It measures the expenditure
(incl. %          per the GoR fiscal year on IT projects to assess improvements in the capacity of
achievement)      RITA to fulfill its mandate.
Indicator 2:      % of targeted institutions with working broadband Internet connection
Value
(quantitative     0                         100                                111
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     09/30/2008                  01/31/2014                         07/31/2015
Comments          Overachieved by 111%. Target achieved 07/31/2015. It measures the increase in
(incl. %          institutional access to broadband connectivity. The original target was 100% of
achievement)      700 institutions. The unit was changed during the last ISR to absolute numbers.
Indicator 3:      Average monthly price of 128kbit/s broadband connection
Value
(quantitative     130                       100                                51
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     09/30/2008                  01/31/2014                         07/31/2015
                  Overachieved by 196%. Target reached 12/31/2009. It measures the average
Comments
                  monthly price of broadband on the retail level. It originally measured
(incl. %
                  128Kbit/second however as the development of the technology, the unit was
achievement)
                  modified to 256Kbit/s.
Indicator 4:      Retail price of Internet services (per Mbit/s per month in US$)
Value
(quantitative     1,015                     781                                201.17
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     03/17/2009                  01/31/2014                         07/31/2015
Comments          Overachieved by 388%. Target reached 09/30/2010. This indicator was not part
(incl. %          of the PAD but added later as a core indicator. It serves as another proxy to
achievement)      measure the retail price of broadband Internet.




                                                  viii
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                 Actual
       Date ISR
No.                           DO                             IP              Disbursements
       Archived
                                                                             (USD millions)
  1    05/05/2009   Moderately Satisfactory            Satisfactory                     0.00
  2    12/18/2009       Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                     0.60
  3    06/20/2010       Satisfactory               Moderately Satisfactory              1.03
  4    04/17/2011   Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory              3.48
  5    01/29/2012   Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory              4.89
  6    01/31/2013       Satisfactory               Moderately Satisfactory            10.72
  7    10/22/2013       Satisfactory               Moderately Satisfactory            14.29
  8    06/24/2014       Satisfactory               Moderately Satisfactory            16.91
  9    12/25/2014       Satisfactory               Moderately Satisfactory            19.24
 10    03/11/2015       Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                   19.60
 11    09/10/2015       Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                   22.85

H. Restructuring (if any)

                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                          Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                   Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
                                                     Restructuring included (i) an
                                                     extension of the closing date by
                                                     eighteen months from January
                                                     31, 2014 to July 31, 2015, and
                                                     (ii) a reallocation of the specific
                                                     component 2 was carried out
                                                     pursuant to the letter dated
                                                     August 26, 2013 from the
 01/29/2014               S      MS          16.49
                                                     Ministry of Finance and
                                                     Economic Planning of the
                                                     Republic of Rwanda. The
                                                     extension was therefore
                                                     proposed to allow for
                                                     completion of the activities
                                                     under the project and full
                                                     achievement of the PDO.




                                              ix
I. Disbursement Profile1




1
    Please note that the operations portal does not generate a “Formally Revised” graph for credits.



                                                        x
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design


1.1 Context at Appraisal

1.      Rwanda is a small and landlocked country that had emerged from a devastating genocide
a bit more than a decade before the project was conceived. In 2008, it was one of the world’s
poorest countries with the per capita GDP at US$3532 and 60 percent of the population living
below the poverty line. It had one of the highest population densities in the world and a highly
rural population.

2.      The Country’s Development Strategy was focused on transforming this, largely
agriculture-based economy to a knowledge and service-based economy, in an effort to reach
lower-middle income status by 2020. This was articulated in the Vision 2020 document which
was endorsed by Cabinet in 2000. The Government of Rwanda (“Government” or GoR)
emphasized its intention to use investment in ICT as the key driver for this transition and as a
vehicle for improving the delivery of public and private services, particularly in the rural areas.
The government’s development strategy was supported by the World Bank, as outlined in the
Country Assistance Strategy 2002-2006 (Report No. 24501-RW) and the Interim Strategy Note
(Report No. 35331-RW).

3.        It was recognized that as a landlocked country, expensive and unreliable international
telecommunications, along with energy shortages, were major bottlenecks to the country’s
economic development. ICT services in Rwanda were still costly at the start of the project.
Despite a clear commitment by the GoR to the use of ICT in government and the wider economy,
tariffs in Rwanda had remained high and the quality of service was low. Teledensity3 remained
low at approximately 9.7 percent compared to the average for Sub-Saharan Africa of 19 percent;
at that time, subscribers were concentrated in the urban areas. The primary reason for this poor
sector performance had been lack of network coverage, limited technical expertise and outdated
technology. Therefore, the Government began to take some steps towards rectifying this by
reforming the regulatory framework and by increasing competition.

4.      The limited infrastructure primarily served Kigali and Butare. The Government decided
to maintain an active role in the sector to ensure infrastructure expanded to the under-served
countryside. To achieve this objective, it had implemented the following measures:

       a) It provided broadband connectivity to selected institutions through a state-owned VSAT
          operator, ARTEL. The company also operated as a wholesaler of international satellite
          connectivity to private companies and large consumers in the country.




2   Source: IMF March 2008.

3 Teledensity is defined as the number of telephone connections for every hundred individuals living within a

geographic area.




                                                           1
    b) Out of the US$100 million revenue generated by the sale of Rwanda Telecom in October
       2007, the Government of Rwanda decided to re-inject US$40 million into the country’s
       ICT infrastructure. The bulk of this funding was to be devoted to developing a national
       backbone infrastructure down to district level. The government intended to construct this
       network itself while engaging a private company to operate the network. The government
       subsequently entered a partnership worth approximately US$5 million with Korea
       Telecom to roll-out wireless broadband services (WiBro, the Korean version of WiMAX
       which is the emerging technology standard for broadband wireless data connectivity) in
       Kigali, with the stated intention to privatize this network, once completed.

    c) The state-owned electricity company, Electrogaz, was also undertaking a major rollout of
       a fiber optic backbone network using the ground-wires of the transmission network to
       provide control systems for the electricity network itself. However, additional spare
       fibers were built into the network design, which were to be made available at low-cost for
       use in the telecommunications sector. Of the total transmission network, it was estimated
       that approximately 550km could be used to provide inter-district connectivity.

5.       Despite these measures, Rwanda still faced critical constraints to achieving its objective
of emerging as a regional ICT hub and transforming into a knowledge economy. Although
telecommunications infrastructure was expanding, improvements in access and services were
slow, and remained costly and inefficient. This also raised the cost of doing business.. For
Rwanda to achieve higher and sustained growth, it needed to accelerate the development of its
telecommunications infrastructure with increased capacity capable of delivering advanced ICT
services throughout the country. This was also needed to reduce the cost of doing business and
significantly contribute to efficiency in public sector service delivery.

Rationale for Bank involvement
 
6.       High consumer prices for broadband access, which made it unaffordable to all but a very
small segment of the population, prevented expansion of the broadband market in Rwanda. In
order to lower the costs of international telecommunications, including Internet, the country
required increased international connectivity and bandwidth capacity. The presence of the private
sector at the time was nascent, and confidence on the part of private investors was limited by the
country’s having emerged only 14 years earlier from a severe civil conflict. Public intervention
in the market was required to help break the cycle of low demand due to high prices. Although
the GoR and the operators had already taken steps to expand broadband capacity and international
connectivity, additional public sector measures were deemed necessary to further reduce the
barriers to Internet access and usage and catalyze private sector investment. Increased capacity
was also needed to support government connectivity as a contributor to increased efficiency in
government administration and public service delivery, which required public sector investment.  
 
7.       The World Bank was initiating the Regional Communications Infrastructure Program
(RCIP) to support all the countries in Eastern and Southern Africa to improve and integrate the
essential utility of telecommunications. A Phase I RCIP project had been initiated in Burundi,
Madagascar and Kenya. Rwanda was included as Phase II with the same aim of decreasing
regional and national telecommunications costs, increasing reliability and capacity of the




                                                2
networks, and setting the foundation for improved government efficiency and effectiveness
through technology.4  
  
8.       Prior government successes in the use of ICT in the Rwandan economy and the public
sector also provided a foundation for the project. These included the installation of GovNet to
link the Ministries, the initiation of the TracNet system for health, the creation of strategic ICT
plans for Ministries, and the establishment of certified institutions of higher learning providing
degrees in technology. These efforts were supported by the World Bank in particular through:
     a) The Rwanda Development Gateway (2000-2009), which established the Regional IT
         Training Center at Kigali Institute of Science and Technology, strengthened the GIS
         center at the National University of Rwanda, and created a gateway portal to share
         government information on Rwanda.
     b) Public Sector Capacity Building Project (PSCBP, 2004-2011), which was a US$24
         million grant, and which include ICT training for government officials.
     c) The eRwanda project, (2006-2010), a US$10 million grant which focused on the
         development of eGovernment applications and government websites, the provision of
         Local Area Networks (LAN), and additional capacity building in ICT for the
         government.
          
9.       These efforts had enabled further eGovernment expansion and attracted future
investments in ICT, but their impact was limited by the need to increase broadband bandwidth
and access. The RCIPRW project therefore complemented these efforts and supported the
Government of Rwanda’s and the World Bank’s strategic objective of increased regional
integration and improved international connectivity. The support for the purchase of international
capacity and its linkage to nearby regional networks (rather than expensive satellite links through
Europe) by the project was designed to facilitate cross-border communications traffic, hence
boosting international trade and economic activities, and overall regional integration.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

10.     The development original objective of RCIPRW was “to contribute to lower prices for
international capacity and to extend the geographic reach of broadband networks”, as
recorded in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD) and Financing Agreement (FA).

11.    The key indicators chosen to measure the project’s results at the time of Board approval
were:
    a) Volume of international traffic (Mbits/s) to assess trends in international and regional
       communications integration;
    b) Volume of national traffic using the proxies of Internet user penetration as measured by
       the number of broadband subscribers and total teledensity to assess level of access to
       communications services within Rwanda;




4
 Phase III countries comprise Malawi, Tanzania and Mozambique; Phase IV Comoros; and
Phase V consists of Uganda. South Sudan and Somalia are under preparation.




                                                3
    c) Average price of international communications using the proxy of the price of wholesale
       capacity link from Rwanda to a European Internet Hub to assess the competitiveness of
       the country with regards to cost of capacity.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification
  
12.     PDO and key indicators remained unchanged throughout the entire duration of the project.
One additional core indicator - Retail Price of Internet Services (per Mbit/s per Month, in US$) -
was added in the Implementation Status and Results Report. This was redundant and was not
formally included under the restructuring.  

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

13.     The main beneficiaries of the project were the Government of Rwanda at both the central
and local levels and public institutions such as schools, health centers; Rwandan Internet Service
Providers (ISPs), and the ICT sector more broadly, including the mobile telephony and broadband
consumers in the country. The project aimed to support them by:
    a) Increasing international telecommunications capacity and leveraging government demand
            for bandwidth to drive down regional prices for all market participants and spur
            further investment into regional network infrastructure;
    b) Expanding broadband connectivity through funding broadband connections to
            government institutions; and,
    c) Contributing to the implementation of the eGovernment program of Rwanda.

14.     The RCIPRW was also intended to result in positive impact for the private sector in two
ways. First, the project intended to contribute towards lowering the cost of doing business in
Rwanda by reducing the cost and increasing the quality of telecommunications services. Second,
the majority of the funds under the project were to be channeled to private companies which were
going to be selected through a competitive bidding process. In itself, this was likely to provide a
major stimulus to the sector and facilitate network development across the country as well as a
demand for both skilled and unskilled labor.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)

15.      Component 1 – Enabling Environment (US$2.67 million). This component provided
capacity building support to the agencies and ministries concerned with the project. These
included, the Ministry of Youth and ICT, Rwanda Development Board /Information
Communication Technology and Rwanda Utilities Regulatory Authority (RURA). Part of this
component was to provide capacity building to these institutions to ensure that the government’s
objectives in Vision 2020 would be met. This support was provided through a combination of
technical advisory support, training and one-off studies. The component provided the preparatory
work required for the connectivity contracts to be undertaken, supporting the main focus of the
project. Technical assistance related to international connectivity issues, the formulation of
governance and disbursement mechanism for the connectivity component activities were also part
of the component.

16.      Component 2 – Connectivity (US$18 million). This component aimed to lower the
barrier for investment from operators to extend the geographic coverage of broadband access.
This took the form of financial support to connect public institutions across the country to the



                                                4
broadband network connectivity. The component also complemented efforts led by RURA under
the Universal Access Fund initiative.
 
        Subcomponent 2.1 – Support to the rollout of the national broadband infrastructure
        (US$4 million). The focus of this subcomponent was the rollout of the broadband access
        networks through the provision of a basic package of broadband services at low-cost and
        connectivity to public institutions across the country. This rollout was planned to be
        executed through a competitive minimum-subsidy (OBA) basis and open to any licensed
        operator or ISP willing to invest and provide the specified services. This subcomponent
        was to complement the other investments that the government and the private sector were
        undertaking to boost connectivity and the capacity of the backbone network linking
        district centers.

           Subcomponent 2.2. – This subcomponent was the most substantial part of the project
           (US$13 million). It financed the purchase of bulk international broadband capacity on
           regional and international networks and the construction of a Virtual Landing Station to
           allow internet service providers (ISP) to have access to the wholesale connectivity.
             
           Subcomponent 2.3 – The subcomponent enabled the establishment of third party Virtual
           Landing Station (US$1 million) or a “tele house” as a neutral exchange point for the
           termination point for international cables and to allow operators and ISPs to interconnect.
 
17.    Component 3 – Project Management (US$2.19 million). The project was primarily
implemented by RDB/ICT 5 , in close cooperation with RURA. This component established a
small project implementation within RDB/ICT, leveraging the prior eRwanda project
implementation team. The project team reported to the Head of RDB/ICT. This component also
allowed for the recruitment of additional technical staff to strengthen the project team, including
(a) a RCIP lead technical manager; (b) a technical network engineer; and (c) a senior
telecommunications network procurement expert.

1.6 Revised Components

18.        The components as designed at appraisal remained unchanged until project closing.

1.7 Other significant changes

19.      The Government liquidated Rwandatel in 2011 and eventually sold its assets in 2013 to
Liquid Telecom, a subsidiary of South Africa-based Econet Wireless Group. In the process, the
Government decided to use the proceeds to finance the extension of the national broadband
infrastructure. Initially, the Government sought to do this through one or more of the existing
operators, but this was not successful. Subsequently the Government signed a contract with
Korea Telecom of South Korea to extend high-speed internet to the majority of the national
population. As a result, US$4 million under Subcomponent 2.1 were reallocated in 2014 to other
activities in the same subcomponent. These included increasing the Wi-Fi connectivity of
institutions across the country to make the broadband more accessible to larger segments of the



5   Formerly RITA (Rwanda Information Technology Authority)




                                                       5
population and to address the constraints of last mile connectivity. This change did not affect the
PDO since it contributed to increase the connectivity of beneficiary institutions.

20.      Other implementation arrangements and funding allocations remained largely as planned
during project appraisal. Due to factors related to broadband service negotiations in Uganda and
to the complexity of the tenders, some delay in contracting for Subcomponent 2.2 occurred. As a
result, the project was restructured in 2014 to extend the closing date by 18 months from January
31, 2014 to July 31, 2015 and to reallocate funds to allow sufficient time for the completion of the
activities and ensure full achievement of the PDO.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

21.     The Government had done extensive preparatory, planning and policy development work
in the ICT sector. At the base of this were the NICI Plans, which provided a comprehensive
description of government policy and plans for the ICT sector in Rwanda. The other World Bank
projects, referenced above, provided a foundation for the project preparation and design. Over the
12 months prior to the project, extensive technical advisory work had been carried out in the area
of ICT needs, broadband and international connectivity.

22.     Project preparation was accelerated and took place without any complications, benefiting
from the support received from the eRwanda project management unit as well as the extensive
preparatory work mentioned above. The project concept note was approved in January 2008 and
project appraisal took place in August 2008. The Board approved the project in September 2008,
nine months after the concept review, and it became effective in January 2009, just 3 months after
the Board approval.

23.     The design of the project built on the lessons learned from the experience of eRwanda
and other RCIP projects. The first phase of RCIP operations for Kenya, Burundi and Madagascar
were reviewed by the World Bank Quality Assurance Group (QAG) as part of the eighth Quality
at Entry Assessment exercise (QEA8), which identified a number of areas which could be
improved. These lessons included:
 
    a) The first lesson that the project adopted was to ensure close working arrangements
        between the World Bank and the GoR to reach timely effectiveness. The eRwanda
        project experienced some delays in obtaining parliamentary approval. Through the
        proactive approach of the Minister responsible for the sector during the preparation and
        appraisal of RCIPRW, such delays were avoided.
    b) Another lesson was the importance of mitigating weak implementation capacity by
        basing the project in a government agency that already has experience with World Bank
        projects. Therefore the project leveraged the existing eRwanda project management unit
        and the responsible agency.
    c) Another key lesson was the need for simplifying monitoring arrangements to ensure easy
        and timely collection of indicators. As a result, RITA became responsible for monitoring
        the project activities and RURA for collecting sector-specific data as it already had that
        mandate. This included emphasis on measurable indicators, which the project
        incorporated in consultation with the government.
    d) The project’s design recognized the importance of complementing infrastructure with the
        development of applications and locally relevant content. Experience in other countries



                                                 6
       showed that developing applications without having the appropriate infrastructure can be
       problematic. At the same time, infrastructure on its own is not sufficient to impact
       demand and result in increased use.
    e) Last, RCIPRW was based on the well-learned lesson that the private sector is better
       placed to develop and operate ICT infrastructure, as it is generally able to provide
       investment for infrastructure rollout. The role of the government was to address market
       inequalities by providing the right incentives for infrastructure and services to reach areas
       unattractive for the private sector.

24.     Quality at entry was supported through the analysis conducted in the sector and the
experience of the Rwanda gateway and eRwanda. Nonetheless, leveraging the eRwanda
implementation for RCIPRW did not fully eliminate delays in implementation as the project team
required further staffing and capacity building.

25.     The assessment of risks and mitigation actions the team prepared at appraisal proved to
be largely adequate. The overall project risks were rated as Moderate and appropriate mitigation
measures were introduced. As, in the cases of procurement risk and absorptive capacity risk, the
mitigation measures were insufficient to prevent related delays in project implementation.


2.2 Implementation

26.      Following project effectiveness, implementation and disbursement of project funds
experienced initial delays. In 2009, there was a change in senior government staff involved in the
project, which caused disruptions to the project implementation. There were initial challenges to
effectively handle financial management and procurement as well as M&E in the project team.
Administratively, the government restructured RITA into the larger RDB and this caused some
initial problems with process and transaction flow. As a result, project implementation was
downgraded from Satisfactory to Moderately Satisfactory. This issue improved in 2010 through
adequate staffing and the capacity building under Component 1 of the project.

27.      Between 2010 and 2012, the implementation progress for Component 1 accelerated, rated
Highly Satisfactory, however the project experienced a second delay in implementation for
Component 2, which was graded as Moderately Satisfactory. As a result, overall Implementation
Progress remained Moderately Satisfactory. The primary output of Component 2 was the
purchase of international bandwidth capacity for the government. The preparation and tendering
of the Indefeasible Right of Use (IRU) contracts took much longer than anticipated due to a lack
of experience with such contracts on the part of the client and the Bank and a lack of technical
capacity Furthermore, as this tender was significantly larger than other procurements, it required
substantial review by the Bank.

28.      The implementation of Component 2 accelerated when the two largest contracts for the
pre-purchase of international Internet bandwidth for the Government were successfully awarded
and signed in mid-2012. The project underwent a mid-term review on March 23, 2012, which
was recorded in ISR6 without any additional comments or issues raised. By early 2013, the
project had made significant progress to achieve its objectives and its disbursement rate improved
significantly: over 72 percent of the grant amount had been disbursed and over 82 percent had
been committed.




                                                 7
29.      In mid-2013, however the implementation of the second contract for the international
capacity purchase (bandwidth from Europe delivered to Rwanda through submarine cables and
terrestrial fiber in Kenya and Uganda) slowed due to quality of service issues on the fiber optic
infrastructure on the part of the vendor. Therefore the full bandwidth activation date had to be
extended. This, combined with previous delays in the implementation of Component 2, resulted
in project restructuring in 2014, which included (i) an extension of the closing date by eighteen
months from January 31, 2014 to July 31, 2015, and (ii) a reallocation of funds within the specific
activities under Component 2. This was carried out pursuant to the letter dated August 26, 2013
from the Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning of the Republic of Rwanda. The extension
was therefore proposed to allow for completion of the activities under the project and full
achievement of the PDO.
          
30.      During the time of restructuring, the GoR undertook a new approach towards the rollout
of broadband services, as previously mentioned under section 1.7. As a result, the US$4 million
originally allocated for national broadband infrastructure were redirected for last mile
connectivity access and equipment to more institutions, and the final procurements proceeded
quickly. At project closing, disbursement rate was at 99.54 percent, and as direct payments were
applied for the last procurement, no funds needed to be returned the World Bank from the GoR.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

31.      The M&E design of the project was consistent with RCIP project designs and principles
at the time of appraisal. The PDO determined in the PAD illustrated adequately what the project
was aiming to achieve. PDO indicators in the PAD provided quantitative and measurable baseline
and target indicators against which progress towards objectives were assessed.

32.     Nonetheless, there should have been greater effort placed in ensuring the adequacy of the
M&E framework and relevance of the indicators during implementation as most targets were
surpassed at an early stage of the project and to a dramatic extent by project closing. Although all
but one of the indicators were surpassed prior to the Midterm Review or the project restructuring,
they were never amended to reflect this progress. This makes the effective utilization of the
M&E framework towards establishing attribution challenging.

33.     During project preparation, the targets for indicators were deliberately set very low. This
was based on the standard indicators for RCIP projects at the time as well as limited local
capacity. In particular, targets for Internet penetration and fall in wholesale prices were
underestimated during project design. This was due to Task Team’s and the GoR’s lack of ability
to predict the impact of fiber optic cable connections to the neighboring countries and the rapid
extension and take-up of mobile broadband technologies in Rwanda. Given rapid changes in the
technology and the emergence of mobile broadband, this was a general challenge in the ICT
sector at the time. However, as targets were reached, the World Bank and the GoR would have
been advised to iterate and revise them to reflect the changes in the sector.

34.     The indicators were slightly modified during the project duration to include one core
indicator prescribed by new World Bank corporate standards as a result of changes in the ICT
sector. This indicator aimed to track access to Internet services based on the number of
subscribers per 100 people, where data was added from the ITU.  

35.     The units of measurement for the two results indicator changed during the course of the
project due to technological changes in the sector. The one intermediate indicator to measure the



                                                 8
average price of 128kbit/s broadband connection was changed to measure that of 256kbit/s. As a
result of changes in the sector, in particular the emergence of mobile broadband, the unit
measured by the key indicator on Internet users also transformed from project appraisal with the
inclusion of mobile broadband subscribers.  
          
36.      The results indicators measured the geographic expansion of broadband through the
increase in international volume. The project management team decided to also track geographic
coverage by mapping out all beneficiary institutions of the project. This map of beneficiary
institutions that received Internet access through the project is included in section 3.2 of this ICR.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

37.     The project complied with the World Bank’s safeguard and fiduciary rules and
regulations throughout implementation.

38.     The project had an overall Category B rating for its safeguards. It triggered two safeguard
categories: environmental (OP BP 4.01) and social (Involuntary Settlement, OP BP 4.12).

    a) Environment. Under the agreed design of the RCIPRW, the actual physical components
       of this project were limited and comprised of (a) building wireless networks using
       existing fixed infrastructure; (b) indirect financing for the laying of some fiber-optic
       cable; and, (c) support for the establishment of a third-party virtual landing station in
       Kigali (a building which houses telecommunications equipment and is aimed as a point
       of interconnection between networks). A draft Environment and Social Management
       Framework (ESMF) was prepared and disclosed by the Government but since the project
       did not end up financing fibre optic cables and the virtual landing station was housed in
       an existing building, this was never applied.
    b) Social. Land acquisition for terrestrial facilities would only be required in the case of the
       Virtual Landing Station and was to be acquired by the entity in charge of operating that
       facility (not the Government). A draft RPF had been prepared and disclosed by the
       Government. As the Virtual Landing Station was set up at the Telecom House, within
       existing infrastructure and not requiring new land acquisition, it did not trigger the social
       safeguards.

39.      The project provided a procurement and a financial manual in the Project Implementation
Manual. The project’s external financial audits were initially qualified, but after FY 2012 the
audits were unqualified and submitted within the stipulated deadlines. Interim Financial Reports
on the other hand were submitted with varied quality, though they were on time and improved as
the project progressed. Financial management was rated Moderately Satisfactory throughout the
project, mainly due to the lack of an accounting manual and internal audits, which would have
reviewed day to day compliance with the internal control systems. The project used an accounting
manual that was developed for a previous project (eRwanda), which was never updated to reflect
subsequent changes arising from RCIPRW.

40.      Procurement progressed in compliance with the legal agreement between the World Bank
and the GoR, however experienced delays as previously described. In 2013, the post-review
identified some irregularities in the area of filing, which were corrected. There were procurement
delays for Component 2, which are described above.




                                                  9
2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

41.     The Rwanda Development Board staff and consultants hired under RCIPRW have be
retained under government employment. Their remit now includes other ICT projects in the
country, many of which were follow-ons from RCIPRW. These projects include continued
support to the Virtual Landing Point, management of the broadband rollout to the rest of the
country, monitoring of the use of the Wi-Fi in TVET centers and secondary schools, and
expansion of the services provided by the Rwanda Online Service Access Points (SAPs).

42.     The pre-purchase of international bandwidth was signed as a 10-year contract and this
will run until 2022, requiring continual monitoring and management of the supplier. Handover to
the Rwanda Online SAPs was initially done when the hardware was delivered, but the support
which RDB-IT will be providing to the SAPs will continue as more services are added to the
online portal (i.e., only 8 services are currently available, but the government plans to offer over
100 services within a year). Maintenance and operations contracts were signed and will continue
to be monitored by RDB-IT; additional monitoring of the sector, which RURA’s responsibility,
will continue as well.

43.      In terms of the World Bank’s continued relationship with Rwanda in the ICT ecosystem,
there are several areas of potential support in the pipelineThe Bank is committed to supporting
the Smart Africa (and Smart Rwanda specifically) through a series of trust funds to provide
technical and material inputs to the Smart Africa Summits, Secretariat and activities. The ICT
unit is preparing a roadmap which would support East African countries in activities which will
improve their civil registration systems and pave the way for a regional electronic ID. This has
been requested by Rwanda, Kenya and Ethiopia, and interest in participation has also been
received from Uganda and Tanzania. Additional opportunities to provide ICT support throughout
the portfolio are being explored, such as in eProcurement, social protection, and analytical work.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

Rating: Substantial

44.     The relevance of the project’s objectives remains Substantial. The project offers
foundational support for the CPS 2014-18, the GoR’s third national ICT Plan (NICI 2015) as well
as the Government’s Economic Development and Poverty Reduction Strategy (EDPRS2):
     a) It directly contributes to increasing access to internet services across the country.
     b) It supports the growth of the private sector and the knowledge economy by helping to
        lower the price of international connectivity and through the provision of technical
        advisory services to improve regulation and public-private partnerships. The redirection
        of project funds to deploy Wi-Fi connectivity in universities and TVET centers helps to
        strengthen these institutions in enabling their students with better access to curricula and
        practical materials, which can boost their employability.
     c) It supports improved government service delivery and accountability through the
        expansion of eGovernment applications such as IFMIS.
     d) Last, it promotes greater regional integration through increased international capacity,
        and more broadly, connectivity linkages to neighboring countries and regional markets.




                                                10
45.      The World Bank’s 10-year vision in the Regional Strategy for Africa underlines the high
relevance of RCIPRW as it places ICT as a key enabler to promote the region’s economic and
social development through improving connectivity and bandwidth. The competitiveness and the
employment pillar as well as the governance and public sector capacity strategy refer to the
significant potential of ICT to support transformation and sustained growth in Africa.

46.       The relevance of the project design is Substantial:
 
      a) The project design identified the appropriate activities to support the PDO, which largely
         remain relevant.
      b) Through the modifications to Subcomponent 2.1, the project ensured relevance and
         reflected shifting government priorities. This enabled RCIPRW to supply equipment to
         the Rwanda Online6 service points under the broader government initiative called Smart
         Villages as well as provide equipment and Wi-Fi access to a greater number of
         educational institutions, which are a current government priority
      c) International capacity remains relevant to ensure adequate bandwidth to cater to growing
         demand. The purchase of international capacity built on the pre-existing and planned
         investments into the underlying infrastructure, and has helped to dramatically reduce the
         price of wholesale Internet.
      d) The capacity building and training under Component 1 remains relevant. The trained staff
         are retained and continue working on other projects. The training they received through
         RCIPRW catered to cross-cutting management and technical skills, which are needed for
         the effective design and implementation of these projects.

47.    The relevance of implementation remains Substantial. The project team that led the
implementation will remain in place and continue to work on the ICT sector and follow up items
from RCIPRW, such as international capacity. It will also work on complementary initiatives by
the GoR, including Rwanda Online.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

Rating: Substantial

48.      The PDO comprised two main intended outcomes: lower prices for international capacity
and extended geographic reach of broadband networks. The project surpassed all of its targets by
closing. However, the low targets determined at appraisal including the under-estimated impact of
exogenous factors - such as the connection to the fiber optic cables to neighboring countries and
the introduction of mobile broadband - also directly contributed to the over-achievement of
project targets. As such, the project was highly successful, but the results cannot be solely
attributed to the project itself in isolation.

49.      Regarding lower prices, the project tracked the price of wholesale international capacity
to Europe. Rwanda had been largely frozen out of the boom in the region that had seen a number
of international submarine cables connect countries of East Africa to the rest of the world.
International connectivity had to rely primarily on highly expensive satellite services, severely


6
 Rwanda Online did not exist at the time of project preparation. RCIPRW responded to this new government priority
by funding equipment for 200 rural access points.




                                                       11
limiting the extension of broadband services and creating an obstacle for the government to
achieve its stated goals. As a result, the Government had to rely on agreements with telecom
operators in its neighboring nations for international connectivity.

50.     The project built on the government’s parallel development of its optic fiber cable to its
neighbors between 2009 and 2011. In 2009, following RCIPRW appraisal and agreement on the
inclusion of international capacity purchase in the project, Rwandatel and sister telco Uganda
Telecom (UTL) agreed to purchase international broadband capacity from SEACOM, which in
turn secured a backhaul solution for Rwanda on the two regional players’ terrestrial networks
between Ugandan capital Kampala and Kigali. Rwanda received 155Mbps of newly available
broadband capacity in October 2009, when Rwandatel’s connection to the cable system via
microwave links was launched, enabling it to deliver high speed services to a growing number of
clients without experiencing capacity problems. Furthermore, Rwandatel and UTL contracted
Green Future in September 2009 to deliver SEACOM's fiber connection to both countries. These
steps spurred the initial drop in wholesale prices and the increase in traffic (see Graph 1 below).

51.      In April 2012 the GoR signed ten-year contract with Tanzania Telecommunications
Company Limited (TTCL) for the provision of an additional 1.244Gbps of international
bandwidth to improve the country’s  Internet  connectivity, funded through RCIPRW. This,
following upon the RCIPRW-funded interim purchase of international Internet bandwidth in 2010,
further contributed to the increase in traffic and continued decrease in price.7 The purchased
bandwidth catered for the needs of both the government and private sector. Broadband Systems
Corporation  (BSC) was given the mandate in 2012 to manage the international bandwidth by
supplying it to government institutions and selling the excess capacity to ISPs. The additional
international capacity that was acquired through the project served as a market catalyzer; it has
considerably reduced the price and allowed for wholesale operators, such as MTN, Liquid
Telecom and Airtel, to buy bulk capacity and sell it competitively on the market.

                                   Graph 1: Project outputs and outcome




    Source: RCIPRW Results indicator data from RDB/IT, RURA and the operators. Targets set for the project are marked with a circle.
          While early successes reached the original targets, the project continued to deliver substantially better results over time.


52.      These complementary efforts led to a dramatic drop in the wholesale price of
international connectivity from US$3,600/month first to US$640/month and then to US$580
within that timeframe, reaching US$125/mbps at project closing. This is the lowest cost among
the other countries that had a regional connectivity infrastructure project – as demonstrated in the



7   TeleGeography




                                                                   12
table below. This drop in the wholesale prices was followed by a decrease in retail prices in the
country, from US$130 to US$50.  

                           Table 1: International connectivity wholesale prices
                           2008          2009         2010          2011         2012          2013         2014
      Sao Tome                                      $9,000        $9,000       $9,000        $2,500       $2,500
      Kenya               $7,500         $800         $800          $650         $650          $650         $287
      Madagascar        $10,000        $5,721       $4,897        $1,776       $1,367        $1,115         $844
      Burundi             $8,000       $6,500       $6,500        $6,500       $2,800          $500         $300
      Rwanda            $10,000        $7,200       $2,800          $640         $580          $290         $125
  Source: project M&E data from WB projects P094103 (Kenya), P094103 (Madagascar), P094103 (Burundi), P106369 (Rwanda)


53.     The combined effects of the Government’s prior capacity purchases plus the project-
financed capacity purchases and construction of the Virtual Landing Station led to a surpassing of
the project’s targets for the expansion of broadband access. Teledensity in the country exceeded
70 percent at the end of the project from a baseline of 10 percent and far outperformed the target
of 15 percent. The number of broadband subscribers grew from 726 in 2009 to an astonishing 2.5
million in 2015. The international Internet volume of traffic reached 11,684 mbits/second, grossly
exceeded its target of 600 mbits/second. The project originally targeted 700 institutions including
schools, local government offices and health clinics, for broadband access. It exceeded this target
in 2015 and continued to connect 783 in total, either through Wi-Fi access points or through the
Rwanda Online telecenters.

                             Map 1: Beneficiary institutions of RCIPRW




      Source: RDB. Widespread delivery of services were designed to reduce urban-rural disparities in access.

54.     Through the increased Internet access thanks to the project, local government officials
have switched from manual to more automated and digital working processes, contributing to
potential improvements in their efficiency. It has also meant that citizens in remote and rural parts


                                                          13
of the country can access national public services through Rwanda Online and other mechanisms,
rather than having to travel to the capital for administrative processes.

3.3 Efficiency

Rating: High

55.     The design of the project has been based on a model of competitive, private-sector
service delivery. This is fully consistent with international experience, which shows that this is a
more cost-effective way of delivering telecommunications services than direct government
provision.

56.     The economic model used at project appraisal evaluated the impact of RCIPRW by
taking into account overall market value of broadband services in Rwanda, as well as overall
costs of delivering such services. The issue of attribution was tackled by comparing the value
added of the project to a scenario without the project. However, the model faced limitations in
terms of accounting for exogenous factors, and the consumer surplus calculation attributes the
reduction in prices to the project. To more clearly determine results attribution, an additional
“without project” scenario was assessed based on the case of Uganda, which has a comparable
market and did not have an RCIP project.

57.      During appraisal, the Economic Rate of Return of the project was predicted to be positive.
Under the project, the government planned to invest US$24 million towards broadband services.
In return for this, it expected to receive direct benefits through the consumption of broadband
services. In addition, the economy was to benefit through the expansion of the broadband market,
directly generating economic value-added which are in addition to the consumer benefits.

58.     It was estimated that the Net Present Value (NPV) of these economic benefits would
equal to approximately US$120 million compared with US$80 million if the project did not
happen. The expected internal rate of return on the project was therefore approximately 17
percent. The project also forecast that the broadband industry would contribute approximately
US$60 million in tax revenues to the government over a 10-year period. This excluded any initial
license fee payments made when companies entered the market and any salary taxes paid by
employees.

59.      At closing, based on the original economic model applied at project appraisal, the project
significantly exceeded its goals for economic benefits, reaching US$474.9 million for its NPV,
and 37 percent for its economic rate of return. It must be noted that these results are not
attributable only to the project, but reflect the combined effects of the project plus the other
measures taken by the Government and the private sector just before the project’s approval and
during its implementation, as outlined in previous sections of this ISR.

                                 Graph 2: Project economic results




                                                14
60.      When compared with the case of Uganda, which has not had a Regional Communication
Infrastructure project, RCIPRW still shows impressive results. The Effective NPV of the project
is US$508 million, and the NPV through the “without project” scenario based on Uganda is
US$42.7 million. Please see Annex 3 for the details of the economic model. 

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Satisfactory

61.    The overall rating for the project’s outcome is Satisfactory, based on the ratings for
Achievements, Relevance and Efficiency.3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

62.      The project has supported Rwanda in addressing broader development challenges.
Through the increase in international Internet bandwidth and the expansion of the reach of
broadband, it contributed towards a continued transformation of Rwanda’s economy as well as
that of the everyday life of its citizens. It has provided a basis for further development to improve
economic growth, boost employment, increase accountability and efficiency of public services
and support social inclusion. These in turn impact poverty reduction and sustainable development.

63.      The project’s support to public institutions through Wi-Fi and telecenters have increased
access to Internet services and brought tangible impact in terms of improved service delivery and
administration at these institutions. Local government and their constituents can now leverage
Internet access and online services to improve both the quality and speed of government services.
Health clinics can also enhance the quality and increase the speed of their processes, which can
make a critical difference for much-need healthcare. Students and administrators at education
institutions that benefited from the project experience more efficient processes, better access to
curriculum and ability to apply learning through the Internet. The project has also contributed to
increased technical skills development among civil servants and administrators, by assisting them
to switch from manual to more automated and digitized processes.

64.     However, this impact is constraint in the short-term due to two reasons. On one hand,
many students at the educational institutions that benefited from the project do not have Wi-Fi-
enabled devices. The project did not conduct an assessment in this regard but anecdotal evidence
suggests that only 20 percent of students have computers or phones that are able to utilize Wi-Fi,
although there is now an increasing availability of less expensive devices in the Rwandan market.
On the other hand, for those institutions that do provide access to devices, e.g., through computer
labs, there is a further need for increased Internet bandwidth to satisfy all the demand from
students and administrators at the same time.

65.      The project did not target women specifically as a key beneficiary group; rather it
included them as part of the overall Internet users. As 51 percent of the population of Rwanda is
female, based on World Bank data from 2013, the potential of the project to benefit women is
high. They benefit from increased availability and access to the Internet, which raises their ability
to enter and expand into markets inside and outside of the country at a lower cost. As time and
mobility constraints tend to be more severe for women than for men given their traditional roles
in the family. Women stand to benefit even more from improvements in eGovernment services
and increased Internet access in general.




                                                 15
66.      The project did not set any climate change related targets, however its support towards
the development of a knowledge economy can boost low-carbon emission sectors. Through the
increased availability of eGovernment services based on the connectivity that the project provided,
it also contributes to the reduction of transportation needs since citizens and civil servants can
conduct processes online.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

67.      The project provided extensive training under Component 1, which was essential to
strengthening and sustaining the government’s capacity to manage the sector. It contributed to
the training of staff from RDB and RURA in both technical and project management, which can
positively impact staff capacity and capabilities to design and manage other, current and future
projects in the sector and beyond.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

68.     The project has contributed to the development of Rwanda’s ICT sector through the
increased capacity. According to the World Economic Forum’s Global Information Technology
report for 2015, Rwanda topped the global chart in the cluster for ‘Government success in ICT
promotion’, and 45 percent of Foreign Direct Investments (FDI) between 2010 and 2015 were
directed to the ICT sector. However overall FDI remains a relatively small contributor to the
Rwandan economy.

69.     According to the Ministry of Youth and ICT of Rwanda, ICT contributed 3 percent to the
Rwandan economy in 2014, which is significantly greater than the average of 1.1 percent in the
context of Africa.8 Out of the 22 countries in Africa and elsewhere where the mobile network
operator MTN operates, Rwanda has one of the highest consumption of internet per person. All
technologies and spectrum are available and accessible in Rwanda.9

70.     Under an initiative championed by the Minister of Youth and ICT and the Mayor of
Kigali, 10Mbs of data are provided to all mobile data subscribers daily free of charge, leveraging
the increased Internet capacity that was provided through RCIPRW. This initiative has been
extended to other towns in Rwanda where Wi-Fi connectivity exists. This has contributed to
increased usage per capita. However, the very heavy capital investments made by the government
and the industry over the period have helped to create more supply capacity in the ICT
sector. There still remains a high amount of unused capacity that needs to be filled by bringing
more new users on board.10




8
 http://www.myict.gov.rw/press-room/latest-news/latest-
news/?tx_ttnews%5Btt_news%5D=216&cHash=3ab7393897aff0a46d7f29612935c05e

9
    http://www.independent.co.ug/column/comment/9518-ict-investment-innovation-and-beyond

10
     http://www.independent.co.ug/column/comment/9518-ict-investment-innovation-and-beyond




                                                       16
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Moderate

71.      As the international broadband capacity was pre-purchased until 2022, there is low risk to
sustaining the key development outcome. The GoR intends for the private sector, such as
operators Liquid Telecom, MTN and Airtel, to finance any additional capacity purchases beyond
that period. Consumption by the private sector and citizens is increasing, balancing the initial
high concentration of demand by the government. The private sector is also continuing with its
infrastructure and services expansion.

72.     For the connected institutions, the project also ensured that all equipment provision
would be paired with a sustainability and maintenance plan. Thereby it mitigated risks to the
intended outcomes of these outputs. Technology does evolve, so the sustainability plans as well
as the capacity building provided under Component 1 were also designed to include relevant
assessments to inform this process and the government’s ability to allow for the update of the
technology as needed. It is worth noting that over 200 of the beneficiary institutions, including
schools that are closed over the summer period, were connected in the last 4 months of the project.
Therefore it is challenging to fully assess the impact of the project on them at this early stage
following implementation.

73.      The fiscal sustainability of the project is to be achieved through cost-sharing with
recipient institutions. The government is committed to further expanding the use of ICT in public
institutions and has indicated that the cost of the broadband connectivity provided to institutions
will be shared by the institutions themselves. The level of this contribution will vary according to
the type of institution, however the GoR has not shared detailed plans that outline the exact nature
of the cost-sharing.

74.      At the same time, private sector development in the sector is still limited, and the
government continues to play an active role. There are concerns by development partners and the
private sector that the GoR’s association with Korea Telecom, ORN and AOS may crowd out
other private sector investment into the telecom sector. However, the GoR maintains that this
association was a strategic move to extend high-speed broadband rollout across the country and
that the model allows for a competitive market as it delivers broadband access through one
wholesale network capable of open access to multiple retail service providers who compete on
value added services as opposed to access to infrastructure. Through this approach, the GoR aims
to rapidly extend broadband while mitigating the risk of crowding out the private sector.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Satisfactory

75.      Project design at entry proved to be appropriate and successful in the large sense; the
project achieved its development objective without the need to go through any major
restructurings. The Bank team heavily invested in extensive preparatory work to support project
design, and incorporated lessons learnt in particular to mitigate the risk of low implementation



                                                17
capacity. It also recognized that heavy advisory support and capacity building would be needed
for the implementing agency.  
 
76.      The Bank Task Team also ensured that the project design would promote donor
harmonization. Therefore, the project included the establishment of a consultative group to ensure
that its activities are well communicated and that stakeholders are involved in the decision-
making process. It was decided that the this consultative group would be part of the existing
donor reporting mechanism, according to the Aide Memoire for the project appraisal mission in
2008 and the World Bank assisted in the formation of this group.  
 
77.      The Task Team set indicator targets extremely low for the project. At the time of project
approval, the political environment in the region and in Rwanda was still unsettled enough that
the Bank proceeded with highly conservative targets for sector achievements under the project.
Therefore it severely underestimated the targets for the results indicators, as previously discussed.
This followed the generally risk averse approach of the Bank with respect to target setting upon
entry.  
 
(b) Quality of Supervision

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

78.      The World Bank ensured appropriate supervision for the majority of the project duration,
however it provided weak supervision at times of low disbursement. After strong Bank
engagement at the preparation and initial implementation stages of the project, the number of
missions and amount of supervision documentation significantly declined between 2011 and 2013.
The delays during 2011-2013 were partly due to a difference of views between the Government
and the then-TTL of the project over the approach taken by the Government to extend high-speed
internet to the majority of the national population, as outlined in section 1.7 above.

79.      The Bank introduced changes in its Task Team and increased the intensity of supervision
in 2014. Such changes contributed to a quick resolution of the differences surrounding the
Subcomponent 2.1 as explained above. As a result, implementation and disbursement rates
accelerated considerably but the Bank could have been more proactive in promptly resolving this
divergence of views in order to minimize its effects on project implementation.

80.     As previously discussed, although the project’s targets were surpassed early on, the
World Bank failed to identify this as an issue and to appropriately modify the targets, despite a
Midterm Review and a restructuring. While this did not significantly affect the outcomes, it
would have been helpful if the targets could have been modified to be able to more accurately
assess the level of achievements of the project. This is an important lesson learned for similar
transformational projects.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

81.     Combining the two ratings of Bank performance in quality at entry and supervision yields
an overall rating of Moderately Satisfactory.




                                                 18
5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

82.       The GoR showed high interest in and commitment to the project from the onset, building
on prior collaboration and operations with the World Bank in the sector through the Rwanda
Gateway and eRwanda. Throughout the most important phases of the project (namely
negotiations and the launch of the second operator), the Government was generally very prompt
to react and showed ability to take decisions under changing conditions and complexities in the
sector. The Ministry of Science, Technology, Scientific Research and Information
Communications Technologies, later reformulated as the Ministry of Youth and ICT, played a
key role in ensuring relevance of the design throughout the project. It demonstrated proactive
leadership in driving the project towards its objectives and towards the accelerated development
of its telecommunications.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

83.     The initial implementing agency was RITA11, which was transformed into the Rwanda
Development Board-ICT Department (RDB-ICT) by 2010. The regulatory aspects of the project
were undertaken by RURA. The project team demonstrated commitment towards the project.
Nonetheless, the project implementation unit experienced lengthy periods of Moderately
Satisfactory ratings for implementation; for financial management, M&E and procurement. This
was due to low capacity to effectively handle these key functions.

84.       Although the project leveraged the eRwanda project team, which had prior experience
with Bank operations, it did not have sufficient staffing to manage both projects in parallel during
the first phase of RCIPRW, nor the required technical skills to effectively handle complex tender
documents under the project.

85.     By the second half of the project, the Government improved capacity as a result of
proactive action to change personnel and the technical training provided by the project under
Components 1 and 3.

86.      Throughout the project, RITA complied with all safeguards and fiduciary aspects
satisfactorily, and overall, reports and audits were submitted in a timely manner. The project team
also demonstrated a high level of understanding of the project’s relevance, and their efforts
contributed to ensure solid project results, through acceleration of disbursements and completion
of all activities by project closing. The SPIU at the RDB has also undertaken the finalization of
all outstanding tasks for the project following project closing.




11
     Which later merged into the RDB.




                                                19
(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

87.     In light of the above, the overall performance of the borrower is rated Moderately
Satisfactory based on the above assessment.

6. Lessons Learned

88.     A number of lessons emerge from the project implementation experience, being the
following most relevant:
    a) The standards for key results indicators for the ICT projects need to be reexamined on a
        regular basis. Given the rapidly changing nature of ICT, Task Teams and project
        implementation units need to not only closely monitor the achievement of the result
        indicators, but periodically check their validity and amend them as necessary to better
        reflect the reality of the sector at the time.

      b) In order to enhance adoption of installed connectivity capacity it is useful to envisage
         actions to stimulate demand so that the effects of improved connectivity reach the local
         population faster. The project provided both supply- and demand-side interventions,
         setting an example for other RCIP projects that highlighted this as an area for
         improvement.12 The next generation of RCIP projects can further enhance this through
         supporting the necessary skills and content development to boost uptake and application.

      c) Substantial and persisting delays in project implementation due to a difference in
         approaches in implementation design should be avoided. Such cases should require the
         application of active and adequate negotiation and resolution between the World Bank
         and the implementing agency, including senior management, and result in quick action in
         terms of any changes to the project.

      d) When considering the expansion of Wi-Fi networks for educational and other public
         institutions, it is important to examine the nature of the demand. It is recommended to
         develop a comprehensive assessment and program for optimal use, including teachers’
         and other staff training, access to Wi-Fi-enabled devices, digital content, sustainability
         models and device distribution channels. It is also important to assess if there is adequate
         broadband access, including links to the fiber networks, for institutions that are equipped
         with Wi-Fi connections and or supported with ICT equipment such as laptops. In the case
         of certain beneficiary institutions that received laptops through the project, the GoR had
         not provided the broadband access yet at the time of project closing.

      e) It is important to adequately communicate the objectives and results of projects. There
         was lack of awareness of the project’s achievements in the country, and specifically of
         the World Bank’s role in the project. Other donors in Rwanda noted the successes of the
         project and confirmed the value that it brought to Rwanda, in particular through the
         purchase of international capacity. USAID, KOICA and JICA noted however that
         communications about the project’s successes and challenges could have been stronger


12
     ICR for WB Project P117652 IDA H6420




                                                  20
        by both the GoR and the World Bank. The project had an allocation to communications,
        which was underutilized, and could have been applied to increase awareness of its
        components and results.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

89.     Comments by the Implementing Agency are provided in Annex 5.

90.     The Borrower’s comments pertaining to paragraph 65 are reflected in paragraph 72 as the
ICR draft was updated following their review. The wording of the ICR was reflected to
incorporate the client’s explanation. The international capacity purchased through the project was
used as a market catalyzer, and as a result, private sector operators such as Liquid Telecom, MTN
and Airtel can buy bulk capacity and sell that on the market. Hence the private sector will lead the
market going forward and provide the required capacity.

91.    The Borrowers’s comments pertaining to 68 are reflected in paragraph 75. The ICR has
been amended to incorporate the GoR’s response to the risks highlighted by the private sector and
development partners.

92.     The Borrower’s observation regarding paragraph 78 in the draft ICR have been
incorporated and reflected in paragraph 86 of this ICR following clarifications on any outstanding
tasks post-project completion.




                                                21
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

    (a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
Components                                       Appraisal        Actual/latest     Percentage of
                                                 estimate (USD    estimate (USD     appraisal
                                                 million)         million)
C1: Enabling environment
Subcomponent 1: Capacity building and                      0.87              2.86             328.70
advisory support to sector agencies
Subcomponent 2: Formulation of                             1.20              0.62              51.46
specifications, process design and transaction
support
Subcomponent 3: Implementation of the ESMF                 0.50              NA                     NA
and RPF
Subcomponent 4: Communications                             0.10             0.01                    7.60
Total                                                      2.67             3.48                    1.31
C2: Connectivity
Subcomponent 1: Supply of broadband                        4.00              3.16              78.90
connectivity to institutions
Subcomponent 2: Purchase of international                 13.00            12.80               98.49
wholesale connectivity
Subcomponent 3: Enabling the establishment of              1.00              1.62             162.10
a third-party virtual landing station
Total                                                     18.00            17.58               97.67
C3: Project Management
Subcomponent 1: Core RITA technical project                1.35              1.93             142.62
management team
Subcomponent 2: RITA project support team                  0.36              0.00               0.00
(shared with eRwanda)
Subcomponent 3: Other operating costs                      0.48             0.10               20.83
Total                                                      2.19             2.03               92.48
Contingency                                                1.14              NA                  NA
TOTAL BASELINE                                            22.86            23.09              101.01
TOTAL with Contingency                                    24.00            23.09               96.21

Note: The procurement plans at appraisal was only developed for the first 18 months and did not
cover the full project amount. Figures are based on SPIU accounting records. Several figures are
below 100 percent given fluctuations in the exchange rate between SDR and US$ throughout
project implementation. There are some figures that are above 100 percent due to reallocations of
funds within components.

(b) Financing
                                                          Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                           Type of        Estimate    Estimate Percentage of
           Source of Funds
                                         Cofinancing       (USD        (USD       Appraisal
                                                          millions)   millions)
Borrower                                                        0.00        0.00         .00
IDA Grant                                                      24.00       23.09      96.21




                                                  22
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

                                                                                                              Date of
                                                                                                              actual
        Components                    Intended output                        Actual output                    output
C1: Enabling environment
                                                               Training 16 staff from RURA ( short and
                                                               long trainings)
                                                               Training for 2 staff from Ministry of ICT in
                                                               the Office of the President                     2009

                                                               Training for 1 RDB staff (Workshop)

                                                               Training for 5 staff from RURA ( short and
                                                               long trainings)
                                                               Training for 14 staff from RDB ( short and
                                                               long trainings)                                 2010
                                                               Master program for one staff from the
                                                               Ministry of ICT in the Office of the
                                                               President
                                                               Training for 6 staff from RDB ( short and
                                                               long trainings)
                                                                                                               2011
                                                               Training for 2 staff from the memorial of
                                                               genocide against Tutsi
                                                               Training for 15 staff from RDB ( short and
                                                                                                               2012
  Subcomponent 1: Capacity                                     long trainings)
                                    Training and capacity
building and advisory support to
                                   building for agency staff
        sector agencies                                        Training for 9 staff from RDB                   2013

                                                               Training for 1 staff from MyICT (short
                                                               training in MIT)
                                                                                                               2014
                                                               PDU Payment for Project Management
                                                               Office staff of RDB
                                                               Training for 22 staff from RDB ( short and
                                                               long trainings) 
                                                                                                               2015
                                                               Training for 4 staff from RURA ( short
                                                               and long trainings) 
                                                               PMP training for 30 RDB/IT staff training
                                                                                                               2011
                                                               (first intake)
                                                                PMP training for 15 RDB/ICT staff
                                                                                                               2012
                                                               training (2nd intake)
                                                               5 Network administrator of the National
                                                               Data Center mentored by a IT Network            2012
                                                               Consultant hired by RCIP
                                                                35 district ICT officers were trained in
                                                                                                               2011
                                                               LINUX system administration 




                                                 23
                                                                     270 local government staff from 18
                                                                                                                     2011
                                                                     districts were trained in basic computing
                                                                     14 staffs from RDB/ICT and other 5 staff
                                                                     from different GoR institutions were            2012
                                                                     trained in TOGAF
                                    Detailed technical feasibility
Subcomponent 2: Formulation                                                                                       Throughout
                                    study, financial analysis,       19 consultancies (see attached document
of specifications, process design                                                                                 the project
                                    tender design, advisory          for more details)
and transaction support                                                                                           duration
                                    support
Subcomponent 3:                     Environmental and
Implementation of the ESMF          Resettlement impact              NA                                              N/A
and RPF                             assessment and mitigation
Subcomponent 4:                     Communications of project        Stakeholders Workshops to sensitized on
                                                                                                                  Aug-11
Communications                      objectives and activities        RCIP Activities and projects
C2: Connectivity
                                                                     200 Rwanda online points established         Jul-15
Subcomponent 1: Supply of           Supply of broadband              546 institutions connected to fiber          Mar-11
broadband connectivity to           connectivity to 700
institutions                        institutions                     37 schools and TVETs connected with
                                                                                                                  Jul-15
                                                                     LAN and WiFi


                                                                     Interim purchase of international capacity   Aug-10
Subcomponent 2: Purchase of         IRU contracts to prepurchase
international wholesale             international wholesale          IRU 1 – long term pre-purchase of
connectivity                        capacity                                                                      Jul-12
                                                                     international capacity
                                                                     IRU 2 – long term pre-purchase of
                                                                                                                  Apr-12
                                                                     international capacity
Subcomponent 3: Enabling the
                                    Development of virtual
establishment of a third-party                                       Virtual Landing point established            May-13
                                    landing station in Rwanda
virtual landing station
C3: Project Management
Subcomponent 1: Core RITA           Recruitment of Lead
                                                                     Lead Technical Manager and other
technical project management        Technical Manager and other                                                   2009
                                                                     technical support on board
team                                technical support
Subcomponent 2: RITA project
                                    Procurement ad financial         Procurement ad financial management
support team (shared with                                                                                         2009
                                    management                       Specialist on board
eRwanda)
                                    Office consumables,
Subcomponent 3: Other               equipment, furniture,                                                         Throughout
                                                                     Operationally set up PIU
operational activities              transport,                                                                    the project
                                    telecommunications, etc.




                                                     24
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

1.      At appraisal, the forecast of the project’s economic rate of return was predicted to be
favorable. Under the project, the government planned to invest US$24 million in broadband
services. In return for this, it would receive economic benefits through the consumption of
broadband services. In addition, the economy would benefit through the expansion of the
broadband market, directly generating economic value-added in addition to the consumer benefits.
It was estimated that the Net Present Value of these economic benefits would equal to
approximately US$120 million compared with US$80 million if the project did not happen. The
expected internal rate of return on the project was therefore approximately 17 percent.

2.      The economic model used at project appraisal evaluated the impact of RCIPRW by
taking into account overall market value of broadband services in Rwanda, as well as overall
costs of delivering such services. The issue of attribution was tackled by comparing the value
added of the project to a scenario without the project.

3.      For the purposes of this ICR, there were multiple assumptions reviewed to update this
model to reflect changes in the most recent data and analytics:
   a) On the cost side, the updated model accounts for capital expenditures resulting from
        building the infrastructure around broadband networks, as well as operating expenditures,
        administrative and sales costs and customer premises equipment costs. These cost
        categories cover the cost to society at large, that is, costs incurred by both service
        providers (CAPEX, OPEX, admin & sales) and consumers (CPE).
   b) On the benefit side, there were three sources identified for value delivered. First, post-tax
        cash flow accounts for benefits to broadband service providers. Second, consumer
        surplus due to price reductions is the benefit reaped by consumers. Third, economic value
        added due to taxes paid and GDP increased can be seen as benefit to society at large.

4.      The model calculates the economic impact of RCIPRW by accounting for costs and
benefits throughout the duration of the project, and also projecting relevant costs and benefits into
the future. The model covers the period from 2009 throughout 2018. The economic impact is
approximated as effective net present value (NPV) of the project, which is calculated in three
steps. First, the NPV of developing Rwanda broadband infrastructure with RCIP is identified: it
discounts net benefits of the project throughout the period 2009-2018 back to the date of
inception. Second, it calculates the NPV of developing Rwanda’s broadband infrastructure
without RCIP. Finally it calculates effective project NPV, which is the difference between the
NPV of the “with project” and the “without project” scenarios.


                      2009    2010     2011      2012      2013        2014        2015        2016        2017        2018
 Year into the
 project                 0       1         2         3         4           5           6           7           8           9
 Subscribers           726   2,640   116,512   368,411   689,531   1,347,992   2,515,689   2,969,333   3,441,770   3,939,000
 Broadband
 penetration         0.01%   0.02%    1.05%     3.22%     5.86%      10.83%      20.60%      23.74%      26.87%      30.00%
 Network CAPEX
 per sub (US$)       2,594   2,283     2,009     1,768     1,556      1,369       1,205       1,060         933         821
 Total new network
 CAPEX (US$m)          1.9     4.4     228.7     445.3     499.5      901.4      1406.7       480.9       440.7       408.2
 OPEX (US$m)           0.9     2.7      94.5     254.0     406.4      656.7       999.9      1023.1      1009.3       963.5



                                                  25
Total CPE costs            0.3      0.7            32.2        50.3              37.2             76.4            135.5         52.6                54.8        57.7
Admin and sales
costs                      0.2      0.2            10.5        33.2              37.2             72.8            113.2        133.6               154.9       141.8
Opex as % of
cumulative capex         46.0%    43.1%       40.2%          37.3%          34.4%               31.6%         28.7%            25.8%           22.9%          20.0%
Cumulative capex
m(US$m)                     1.9      6.3       235.0          680.3         1179.8              2081.2        3487.9          3968.8           4409.5         4817.7
CPE cost per sub           450      367         283            200            116                 116           116             116              116            116
Total cost (US$m)           3.2      8.0       366.0          782.7          980.4              1707.3        2655.2          1690.2           1659.7         1571.2
Pre-tax
revenue/sub/month          130       50             50              50             30              30               25               25              25          20
Total subscription
revenue                    1.1      1.6            69.9       221.0          248.2               485.3            754.7        890.8           1032.5          945.4
OBA                                 0.0             0.0         0.0            0.0                 0.0              0.0          0.0              0.0            0.0
Total revenue pre-
tax                         1.1      1.6        69.9          221.0          248.2            485.3            754.7            890.8          1032.5          945.4
Tax                         0.2      0.3        15.0           47.5           53.3            104.3            162.2            191.4           221.9          203.2
Post-tax cash flow         -2.4     -6.8      -311.1         -609.1         -785.5          -1326.3          -2062.7           -990.9          -849.1         -829.0
Capex to revenue         166%     276%         327%           201%           201%             186%             186%              54%             43%            43%
Opex to revenue           76%     170%         135%           115%           164%             135%             132%             115%             98%           102%

Benchmarks
                                           2009            2010          2011           2012        2013          2014        2015         2016        2017     2018

Population (in mln)                        10.53           10.84         11.14          11.46       11.78         12.45    12.21           12.51      12.81    13.13

Total GDP (in mln US$)                     5309            5699          6407           7220        7521          7890        8474         9118        9811    10556

GDP per capita (US$)                     504.19           525.85     574.89         630.11         638.67     634.01      694.01          728.85     765.87   804.00



                                  2009        2010          2011           2012           2013            2014        2015           2016            2017       2018


Consumer surplus (US$m)
- with project                                     1.3      55.9          176.8          413.7           808.8       1584.9      1870.7            2168.3     2599.7


Total value added (US$m)           0.5             0.7      31.0            98.1         110.1           215.3        334.9          395.3           458.2     419.5


Broadband Value added
as % of GDP - with project        0.0%        0.0%          0.5%           1.4%           1.5%            2.7%        4.0%           4.3%            4.7%      4.0%

Total Net Benefits,
(US$m)                            -1.9         -4.8        -224.1         -334.2         -261.7          -302.2      -142.9      1275.1            1777.4     2190.2
Present value of cash
flows                             -1.9         -4.0        -156.0         -194.0         -126.7          -122.1       -48.2          358.4           416.7     428.3




                                                               26
 Net Present Value (NPV) - with project                                                                                        550.6

 Net Present Value (NPV) - without project                                                                                      75.8
 Effective Project NPV, (US$m)                                                                                                 474.9

 Economic rate of return (ERR)                                                                                                  37%



5.     Based on the model used at appraisal, the consumer surplus from the project far
surpassed that without the project.

                           2009      2010       2011   2012       2013     2014      2015         2016      2017      2018
 Consumer surplus                      1.3      55.9    176.8      413.7    808.8     1584.9       1870.7    2168.3    2599.7
 (US$m) - with
 project
 Consumer surplus                         0.7    2.9        6.8     12.4      20.5      28.9        40.3      53.9      70.9
 (US$m) - without
 project

 Original assumptions used by the project team
                                                        Assumption         Explanation / source
 CAPEX (capital expenditure) per cell site (US$)              129,700      Pyramid/Winrock (data from RM, email 15/4/08)

 Min # subscribers per cell site                                    50     Assumption by the project team

 Max # subscribers per cell site                                   500     Pyramid/Winrock (data from RM, email 15/4/08)

 Average CAPEX /sub (max)                                         2,594    Calculated based on total CAPEX and minimum #
                                                                           of subscribers per cell site


 Average CAPEX/sub (min)                                           259     Calculated based on total CAPEX and maximum #
                                                                           of subscribers per cell site, higher than Pyramid
                                                                           ($430 falling to $180)



 Starting cost of CPE (customer premises                           450     Pyramid/Winrock (data from RM, email 15/4/08)
 equipment) per subscriber
 OPEX - operating expenditure (% of cumulative                     46%     Pyramid/Winrock (data from RM, email 15/4/08)
 CAPEX) (2009)
 OPEX (% of cumulative CAPEX) (2018)                               20%     Assumption by the project team

 Admin and sales costs (% of gross revenue)                        15%     Burundi benchmarked, project team assumption




                                                       27
                 Tax/Revenue                                                   21%       MTN Group annual report (2006), adjusted for Rw
                                                                                         specific taxes and rebased for GR including VAT



                 Value-added as % of gross revenue                             44%       MTN Group annual report (2006), adjusted for Rw
                                                                                         specific taxes and rebased for GR including VAT



                 Assumptions for the ICR (updated)
                                                                     Assumption          Explanation / source
                 Annual change in capex per sub                              -12%        Based on Winrock assumptions, revised
                                                                                         downwards compared to project team's model
                 Annual change in CPE price                                    83.5      As calculated based on 2009 and 2013 CPE
                                                                                         numbers
                 GDP growth 2015                                              7.40%      World Bank forecast as of July 15 2015
                 GDP Growth 2016                                              7.60%      World Bank forecast as of July 15 2015
                 Population 2015                                         12,210,000      University of Denver Global Forecasting
                 Population 2016                                         12,510,000      University of Denver Global Forecasting
                 Population 2017                                         12,810,000      University of Denver Global Forecasting
                 Population 2018                                         13,000,000      University of Denver Global Forecasting
                 Target broadband penetration rate (2018)                       30%      BuddeComm projection
                 CPE cost per subscriber as of June 2013, (US$)                 116      RURA (Rwanda Utilities Regulatory Authority)
                 Discount rate                                                  20%      Calculated using CAPM model
                 risk-free rate                                               3.08%      Relying on 30-year treasury yield curve as of
                                                                                         21.07.2015
                 Unlevered beta (telecommunications equipment)                 1.2       Relying on data from the web-site of
                                                                                         A.Damodaran of Stern School of Business
                 Market risk premium for Rwanda                                14%       Relying on data from the web-site of
                                                                                         A.Damodaran of Stern School of Business


                6.     Based on the model used at appraisal, the project far surpassed its estimated NPV,
                reaching US$479.9 million, and its estimated Economic Rate of Return, reaching 37
                percent. However, the model faces limitations in terms accounting for exogenous factors
                and the consumer surplus calculations attributes the reduction in prices to the project. To
                more clearly determine results attribution, an additional “without project” scenario was
                assessed based on the case of Uganda, which has a comparable market and did not have
                an RCIP project.

                                           Model based on comparison with Uganda:

                  2009      2010        2011         2012         2013         2014            2015         2016         2017         2018
Year into the
project              0         1           2            3            4               5            6               7          8           9
Subscribers        726      2640      116512      368411     689531          1347992        2515689      2969333       3441770     3939000
Broadband
penetration       0.00       0.00        0.01        0.03         0.06          0.11            0.21            0.24      0.27        0.30




                                                                    28
Network
CAPEX per
sub (US$)        2,594.00    2,282.72     2,008.79    1,767.74      1,555.61      1,368.94       1,204.66       1,060.10         932.89         820.94
Total new
network
CAPEX                                   228,745,34   445,291,5    499,537,40                  1,406,682,77
(US$m)          1,883,244   4,369,126            4          27             7   901,391,357               4   480,910,073    440,732,677    408,198,421
OPEX                                                 253,974,6    406,384,73                                 1,023,071,24   1,009,295,51
(US$m)           866,292    2,695,466   94,521,303          50             4   656,739,904    999,864,890               2              9   963,548,390
Total CPE                                            50,253,85
costs            326,700     701,481    32,225,776           0    37,249,920    76,381,476    135,452,852     52,622,707     54,802,692     57,678,676
Admin and                                            33,156,99
sales costs      169,884     237,600    10,486,080           0    37,234,674    72,791,568    113,206,005    133619986.2    154,879,651    141,804,000
Opex as % of
cumulative
capex                0.46        0.43         0.40        0.37          0.34           0.32           0.29           0.26           0.23           0.20
Cumulative
capex                                   234,997,71   680,289,2    1,179,826,   2,081,218,00   3,487,900,78   3,968,810,85   4,409,543,53   4,817,741,95
m(US$m)         1,883,244   6,252,370            4         42            649              7              0              4              1              3
CPE cost per
sub                  450       366.5           283       199.5           116            116            116            116            116            116
Total cost                              365,978,50   782,677,0    980,406,73   1,707,304,30   2,655,206,52   1,690,224,00   1,659,710,54   1,571,229,48
(US$m)          3,246,120   8,003,673            3          18             6              6              1              9              0              9
Pre-tax
revenue/sub/
month                130          50           50          50            30             30             25             25             25             20
Total
subscription                                         221,046,6    248,231,16                                                1,032,531,00
revenue         1,132,560   1,584,000   69,907,200         00              0   485,277,120    754,706,700    890,799,908               8   945,360,000
OBA                              0.00         0.00        0.00          0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00
Total revenue                                        221,046,6    248,231,16                                                1,032,531,00
pre-tax         1,132,560   1,584,000   69,907,200          00             0   485,277,120    754,706,700    890,799,908               8   945,360,000
                                                     47,506,28
Tax              243,404     340,425    15,024,123           6    53,348,662   104,293,455    162,197,982    191,446,488    221,906,664    203,172,284
                                                 -           -             -              -              -
Post-tax cash           -           -   31,1095,42   609,136,7    785,524,23   1,326,320,64   2,062,697,80             -              -              -
flow            2,356,964   6,760,099            7          04             9              1              3   990,870,589    849,086,196    829,041,773
Capex to
revenue              1.66        2.76         3.27        2.01          2.01           1.86           1.86           0.54           0.43           0.43
Opex to
revenue              0.76        1.70         1.35        1.15          1.64           1.35           1.32           1.15           0.98           1.02



                   Assumptions by review team (updated) - based on Uganda
                                             Assumption Explanation / source
                   Annual change in capex                 -10%      Based on Winrock assumptions, revised downwards compared to project
                   per sub                                          team's model, (note: CAPEX decreases slower than in case of project
                                                                    scenario, as fewer subscribers mean lower economies of scale)


                   Annual change in CPE                    83.5     As calculated based on 2009 and 2013 CPE numbers
                   price
                   GDP growth 2015                         0.10     World Bank forecast as of July 15 2015
                   GDP Growth 2016                         0.10     World Bank forecast as of July 15 2015
                   Population 2015                   12,210,000     University of Denver Global Forecasting
                   Population 2016                   12,510,000     University of Denver Global Forecasting
                   Population 2017                   12,810,000     University of Denver Global Forecasting



                                                                          29
Population 2018                    13,130,000         University of Denver Global Forecasting
Target broadband                         0.30         BuddeComm projection
penetration rate (2018)
CPE cost per subscriber as                116.0       RURA (Rwanda Utilities Regulatory Authority)
of June 2013, (US$)
Discount rate                                0.2      Calculated using CAPM model
Risk-free rate                               0.0      Relying on 30-year treasury yield curve as of 21.07.2015

Unlevered beta                              1.20      Relying on data from the web-site of A.Damodaran of Stern School of
(telecommunications                                   Business
equipment)
Market risk premium for                     14%       Relying on data from the web-site of A.Damodaran of Stern School of
Rwanda                                                Business
Pre-tax revenue per                          170      Data from user reports online, we rely on Uganda as a comparison case
subscriber in Uganda
(2008), USD
Pre-tax revenue per                          120      Data from user reports online, we rely on Uganda as a comparison case
subscriber in Uganda
(2012), USD
Pre-tax revenue per                           43      Data from user reports online, we rely on Uganda as a comparison case
subscriber in Uganda
(2015), USD
Pre-tax revenue per                                   Linearly extrapolated from available data (data points for 2008, 2012 and
subscriber for years 2010,                            2015 available)
2011, 2013, 2014


Benchmarks
                                  2009        2010        2011          2012      2013        2014        2015      2016     2017      2018
Population (in mln)               10.53       10.84       11.14        11.46     11.78       12.45       12.21      12.51    12.81     13.13
Total GDP (in mln US$)            5309        5699        6407          7220      7521        7890        8474      9118     9811     10556
GDP per capita (US$)             504.19      525.85      574.89       630.11    638.67      634.01      694.01     728.85   765.87      804


                         2009    2010       2011        2012        2013       2014        2015        2016        2017                2018
Consumer surplus
(US$m) - with
project                          1.27      55.93      176.84      413.72    808.80       1584.88     1870.68     2168.32             2599.74
Total value added
(US$m)                   0.50    0.70      31.02       98.08      110.15    215.33        334.89      395.27      458.16              419.48
Broadband Value
added as % of GDP
- with project           0.00    0.00       0.00        0.00        0.00       0.00         0.00        0.00        0.00                0.00
Total Net
Benefits, (US$m)         -1.85   -4.79    -224.15     -334.21     -261.66   -302.19      -142.93     1275.08     1777.39             2190.18
Present value of
cash flows               -1.85   -4.00    -155.97     -193.99     -126.69   -122.05       -48.15      358.35      416.69              428.31




                                                            30
 Net Present Value (NPV) - with project                                                                            550.64

 Net Present Value (NPV) - without project                                                                          42.67

 Effective Project NPV, (US$m)                                                                                     507.96

 Economic rate of return (ERR)                                                                                       36%




7.       According to the International Telecommunications Union (ITU), broadband can be
considered affordable when it is at or below 5 percent of the average monthly income. The World
Bank does not provide up-to-date information on the average income or income distribution in
Rwanda. Using the most recent data available on per capita income in Rwanda, which is provided
by the United Nations Development Program (UNDP) from 2012, the monthly Internet retail
price of US$28 for mobile broadband in 2015 is above the 5 percent of their monthly income of
RWF64,410 (US$87.46 based on the exchange rate for October 13, 2015) --noting the severe
limitation of this analysis in terms up-to-date information on current income levels and
distribution within the country. In addition to the costs of Internet, the cost of devices also affects
affordability. Based on the price of one of the most widely used smart phones in the local market,
a monthly cost of US$3.7713 could be added to the affordability assessment. This highly limited
analysis, using income data from 2012, suggests that broadband services are not yet affordable for
the majority of the population.




13
   The price for mid-range smart phone with Internet connectivity in Rwanda (Tecno Y4) is RWF50,000, or US$67.89
based on October 2015 exchange rates. Assuming a usage life of 18 months, US$3.77 would be the monthly impact on
affordability coming from device on top of the monthly Internet cost.



                                                      31
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


(a) Task Team members
                                                                           Responsibility/
           Names                                Title             Unit
                                                                             Specialty
Lending
                                                                         ICT Coordinator for
Mavis A. Ampah                 Lead ICT Policy Specialist        GTIDR
                                                                         Africa
                                                                         ICT Coordinator for
Laurent Besancon               Manager                           LLILD
                                                                         Africa
Kaoru Kimura                   ICT Policy Specialist             GTIDR   Team Member
                                                                         Former Program
Juan Navas-Sabater             Program Leader                    ECCU1
                                                                         Leader
Maria Isabel A. S. Neto        Senior Operations Officer         GEEDR   Advisor
Michele Ralisoa Noro           Operations Analyst                 GTIDR  Program Assistant
Arleen Cannata Seed            Sr. ICT Policy Specialist          GTIDR  Task Team Leader
                                                                 TWICT -
Mark D. J. Williams            Senior Economist                          Task Team Leader
                                                                   HIS
Supervision/ICR
                                                                 AFTME - Financial
Otieno Ayany                   Financial Management Specialist
                                                                   HIS Management
Alan Carroll                   Consultant                         GTIDR Advisor
                                                                         Task Team Leader
Doyle Gallegos                 Lead ICT Policy Specialist        GTIDR
                                                                         for the APL
                                                                 AFTPE -
Chantal Kajangwe               Procurement Specialist
                                                                   HIS
                                                                         Procurement
Samia Melhem                   Lead ICT Policy Specialist        GTIDR Team Member
Michele Ralisoa Noro           Operations Analyst                GTIDR Program Assistant
                                                                         Primary Author of
Cecilia Paradi-Guilford        ICT Policy Specialist             GTIDR
                                                                         the ICR
Tasneem Rais                   Program Assistant                  GTIDR  Program Assistant
Arleen Cannata Seed            Sr. ICT Policy Specialist          GTIDR  Task Team Leader
Peter Silarszky                Sr. Economist                      GTIDR  Task Team Leader
Gurcharan Singh                Sr. Procurement Specialist         GTIDR  Procurement
Dimitrie Mukanyiligira Sissi   Executive Assistant               AFMRW   CMU Assistant
Yasmine Umutoni                Consultant                        GFADR   Program Assistant
                                                                 TWICT -
Mark D. J. Williams            Senior Economist
                                                                   HIS
                                                                         Task Team Leader




                                                  32
(b) Staff Time and Cost

   Staff
   Weeks         Labor          Travel         Other        Total

                                FY 2008
      49.47        180,247.77    119,710.13      6,743.85   306,701.75

                                FY 2009
      23.09         90,713.80     68,662.93      1,723.69   161,100.42

                                FY 2010
       7.24         33,170.39     17,556.14      1,137.74     51,864.27

                                FY 2011
      11.52         52,736.99     33,776.19      5,209.60     91,722.78

                                FY 2012
      11.21         50,847.39      8,587.25      1,437.49     60,872.13

                                FY 2013
      11.55         53,117.22     13,147.91       991.86      67,256.99

                                FY 2014
      12.66         56,722.92     10,493.16       328.25      67,544.33

                                FY 2015
      18.86         91,655.01     48,379.88       223.53    140,258.42

                                FY 2016
           -                -     13,276.90       301.06      13,577.96
                                TOTAL
     145.60        609,211.49    333,590.49     18,097.07   960,899.05




                                          33
Annex 5. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR




                                  34
Summary of the ICR prepared by the RDB:

1.       At the inception of RCIPRW, Rwanda being a land locked country, the internal policies,
regulations and investments contributed to the development of the ICT sector but still the cost of
international Internet bandwidth was still very high and this was a critical barrier to deliver
quality and affordable services. Here comes the need of an affordable and reliable international
internet bandwidth.

2.      The development original objective of RCIPRW was “to contribute to lower prices for
international capacity and to extend the geographic reach of broadband networks”, as
recorded in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD).




                                               35
3.       The key indicators chosen to measure the project’s results at the time of Board approval
were:
        Volume of international traffic (Mbits/s) to assess trends in international and regional
         communications integration;
        Volume of national traffic using the proxies of Internet user penetration as measured by
         the number of broadband subscribers and total teledensity to assess level of access to
         communications services within Rwanda;
        Average price of international communications using the proxy of the price of wholesale
         capacity link from Rwanda to a European Internet Hub to assess the competitiveness of
         the country with regards to cost of capacity.

4.       The primary beneficiaries of the project were:
        Government agencies and ministry concerned with the project namely the Ministry in
         Charge of Science, Technology Scientific Research and Information Communication
         Technologies in the Office of the President, RITA and RURA were to be supported
         through a combination of project management, technical advisory support, training and
         studies;
        700 public institutions including health centers, local government buildings, primary and
         secondary schools and universities campuses were to be supported through provision of
         broadband connectivity; and
        Operators and ISPs by facilitating the interconnection through the VLP.

5.     The broad ICT sector in the country was to be supported by the project through resulting
improvements in broadband internet connectivity and had to benefit from project funds through
implementation of different contracts.

6.       The project components were:
        Component 1: Enabling Environment. This component provided capacity building
         support to the agencies and ministries of government concerned with the project. The
         component also provided the preparatory work for connectivity tenders to be undertaken
         as the main focus of the project, including detailed technical designs and transaction
         advisory support. The component was supposed to support any environmental impact
         assessment work that would be required but the implemented activities did not require
         such an activity.
        Component 2: Connectivity. The component focused on improving connectivity and
         lowering the cost of international telecommunications services by providing broadband
         access to targeted public institutions within the country and to provide wholesale
         broadband connectivity to the submarine fiber-optic cables. The three main activities for
         this component include the support to the roll out of broadband services, connectivity and
         the establishment of a virtual landing point
        Component 3: Project Management. Primarily an experienced project management team
         was established under RITA working as one team with the eRwanda project team. In
         addition to the finance, procurement, M&E and administration team, the recruited staff
         included the Lead Technical manager, 3 broadband specialists and a communication
         specialist.

7.       The project components were not revised throughout the project lifetime. However some
activities within the components have been revised to fit in the update context of the country and
the ICT sector in particular without changing the overall project development objectives. The
subcomponent 2.1 Support to the roll out of broadband services was not implemented by


                                                36
establishing a network between the public institutions as it was planned due to the fact that
Government has engaged a private investor to establish a country wide 4G LTE network. The
project funds have been reallocated to activities helping the broadband demand side including
installation of local area network in different sectors, provision and installation of Wi-Fi
equipment in secondary schools, TVET centers and universities, provision of computers labs to
secondary schools and installation of computer access points in different sectors.

8.       The preparation and design of RCIP was backed by the Government of Rwanda NICI
plans, the established infrastructure and eRwanda project finance by the World Bank.

       Government plans: The Rwandan development (ICT4D) or NICI process began in 1998.
        The process is designed to put in place and implement the necessary policies and plans
        capable of addressing Rwanda’s developmental challenges in the information and
        technological age to accelerate the country’s socio- economic development process and
        move it towards an information and knowledge based economy and society.
       Infrastructure: During the implementation of NICI I (2000-2005) and NICI II, that was
        half way during the project design, Government of Rwanda and its private partners have
        established infrastructure including 150km and 85km fiber optic owned by Rwandatel
        and MTN respectively, a government owned VSAT operator, a decision to invest in the
        fiber optic backbone among others.
       Prior experience: RCIP project benefited from being implemented from the eRwanda
        experience under a joint implementation team with prior experience in project
        management and set clear procedures to manage the projects in compliance with the
        Bank’s rules but also in line with the Government of Rwanda ICT vision.

9.       RCIPRW implementation experienced some initial delays. The grant agreement was
signed on October 20th, 2008 and the project was declared effective on January 16th, 2009. At
the early stage of implementation, the RCIPRW project experienced delays due to late
recruitment of the project coordinator and the technical team. When the team was on board, they
established the procurement plan and initiated some of the project activities. However after a
short period of time the procurement specialist and the project coordinator left the project early
2010, which again delayed the project at its early stage of implementation, which was then ranked
Moderately Satisfactory. At the end of 2010, all the positions within project management were
refilled and implementation took off, ranked Satisfactory.

10.      Following the resolution of issues with the project implementation team, Component 1
proceeded with smooth and timely implementation, however Component 2 experienced further
delays. Prior to the implementation of the subcomponent, the government established a policy
towards connecting the entire country in a period of 3 years using private investment. The
government committed to contribute the spectrum and existing backbone infrastructure as share
equity to the private investor who would be willing to invest in a countrywide network, thereafter
a private investor was mobilized to do so using a 4G LTE technology within a period of 3 years.
With the new policy, it was not wise to establish a separate network connecting government
institutions in parallel to the broad 4G LTE network and Government proposed to the Bank to
restructure the subcomponent.

11.    After discussions with the Bank, it was agreed that the funds under the subcomponent
would be used to provide last mile connectivity to different institutions and this included:
        Providing Wi-Fi network covering 36 high learning institutions;
        Providing Wi-Fi equipment and computer labs to 28 secondary schools;



                                               37
            Providing access points in 200 sectors across the country.

12.     The subcomponent on international connectivity also experienced delays. The tendering
process was complex and took considerable time under design and review. During this time, the
GoR and the Bank agreed to purchase international internet capacity for a short period for
155MBPs for a period of one year. The tendering process was initiated for the Long-term lease
and the first lot (Kigali-Rusomo-Dar-es-salaam) was awarded by April 2012 and the related
(1.244Gibps) capacity was delivered from July 2012 for a period of ten years. Considerable
delays were experienced on the second lot as the procurement process experienced a drop out of
the best bidder due to an error he had made in his offer but also when the lot was awarded, the
successful bidder was obliged to establish the physical fiber connectivity between Gatuna (the
border between Rwanda and Uganda) and Mbarara (in central Uganda). The contract for the
second lot was signed in July 2012 and the full capacity of 1.244Gibps Mbps was delivered from
August 2013 for a period of 10 years as well.

13.    Last, the landing point under Component 2 was established by the project within the
Telecom house though also experienced delays in procurement.

14.     As a result of these delays, the project needed to be restructured. The Government
requested for an extension of 18 months and the main reasons included:
                Restructuring of the Subcomponent 2.1 Support to the roll out of broadband
                   services to accommodate the current broadband rollout policy
                Spare enough time to the project team to monitor the delivery of the
                   international capacity and complete the related payments;
                Complete the procurement of the Virtual Landing Point equipment;
                Reallocate the funds reserved under the contingency to be used for the project
                   activities.

15.      The RCIPW project has been designed with clear PDOs and it was in line with the
government overall ICT policy. From the PDO, clear outcome and result indicators were
designed in the PAD and were assessed throughout the project execution period. The ICT context
and situation in the country of the project design period influenced the initial indicators to be very
low. As the development of ICT sector in Rwanda took off exponentially, the set indicators were
achieved in the mid of the project implementation due to the project implications or other ICT
initiatives in the country.

16.     The project achieved its development objectives and surpassed its results indicators. Key
conclusions include:

                   The RCIPRW project was designed in line with the country’s ICT context as
                    it was complementing government efforts invested in the National backbone
                    and other ICT initiatives in the country;
                   The project facilitated regional integration as the delivery of the international
                    capacity through Kenya and Uganda catalyzed the establishment of a new
                    fiber connection between Gatuna and Kampala but also increased fiber
                    connections within the region;
                   The project was a key supporter and enabler to the private sector in the
                    country by lowering down the international internet connectivity prices to
                    125/Mbps/month, supporting the drafting and improving ICT regulation
                    through interconnectivity model, tower infrastructure sharing policy.



                                                 38
                The project has been a key enabler to government in achieving its overall and
                 especially ICT and objectives by:
                 a) It helped connect more than 800 institutions to internet broadband,
                 b) It facilitated the establishment of points of access for online services,
                 c) It helped connect universities and TVET centers to WIFI connectivity,
                 d) It supported the installation of computers labs and Wi-Fi connectivity in
                     secondary schools,
                 e) It provided several and relevant trainings to government staff and
                     officials,
                 f) It offered technical support to institutions to enhance their service
                     delivery.
                Through purchase international connectivity using short-term contract the
                 prices dropped from USD 2000/MBPS/month up to USD 700/MBPS/month
                 and when the long term IRUs were signed the prices dropped down to USD
                 125/mbps/month.
                The broadband access increased exponentially during the project
                 implementation where the number of broadband subscribers reached 2.5
                 million and the internet volume of traffic reached 11,684 in 2015. Thanks to
                 the project efforts to reduce the prices of internet bandwidth, the government
                 National Backbone and the penetration of the smart phones.

17.   Post-completion phase will support the sustainability of the project’s objectives:
              Through the SPIU the RCIPRW staff were retained and will continue to
                support the activities accomplished by RCIPRW including a smooth transfer
                to different responsible institutions and monitoring the warranty and after sale
                services from different contractors and vendors.
              The acquired international Bandwidth will be delivered until 2022. A
                management Memorandum of Understanding was signed between BSC Ltd
                and RDB to manage the bandwidth, the virtual landing point and the related
                contracts. Handover of the Wi-Fi network and equipment has been done
                between the project and respective universities and secondary schools at
                completion of installation, however a final handover is scheduled between
                RDB and the Ministry of Education.
              The project equipped 200 service access points across the country to facilitate
                the citizens to access the services offered online through the Rwanda online
                project and the handover was done between RDB and different district offices
                where the SAP are located. A final handover including a business
                management models will be done between RDB and the Ministry of Local
                Government.

18.   Key lessons learned include:
              ICT is a constantly rapidly changing sector and related project design should
                take into consideration this nature both in determining the PDOs and
                designing the activities. At the same time, project midterm review to
                accommodate the changes of the overall ICT context should be taken into
                consideration. For the RCIPRW case the midterm review was not properly
                conducted and reported.
              Of the delays experienced during the RCIPRW project implementation, a big
                part is due to the processes of approval at different levels within the World
                Bank but also to misunderstanding between the World Bank and the



                                             39
government to accommodate changes needed in the project in result to new
development in the country context and policies. In the future the World Bank
and the implementing agency should take the necessary actions on time in the
interest of the project success.




                           40
Annex 6. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

Not applicable




                                    41
Annex 7. Overview of the telecom sector in Rwanda
	
1.       The country’s multi-sector regulator, Rwanda Utilities Regulatory Agency (RURA), was
established in September 2001 under Law No.39/2001. It is responsible for the electricity, gas,
transport, water and telecoms markets and is defined by law as a national institution with legal
powers, autonomous administrative and financial management. RURA before they can start
providing services. RURA’s main objective in the telecoms sector is regulating operators and
issuing licenses. In March 2013 Law No.9/2013 reviewed and updated Law No.39/2001, giving
RURA the mandate to regulate telecoms, information technology, broadcasting and converging
electronic technologies including the Internet and any other audiovisual information and
communication technology, while also providing for the legal, financial and administrative
autonomy of the authority.14

2.       The GoR’s first National ICT Plan, which concentrated on the creation of an environment
to facilitate the development of ICT initiatives, was launched in 2000 and ran until 2005. The
second (2006-10) placed an emphasis on the development of key ICT infrastructure such as the
laying of fiber optic cables and other ICT infrastructures. The government’s third National ICT
Plan (NICI III, also known as NICI-2015) was unveiled in January 2011 with the aim of
increasing access to Internet services across the country. The plan, which is scheduled to run from
2011 to 2015, focuses on service development across five areas: skills, the private sector, the
community, e-Government and cyber security. With regards to the development of the
community, the NICI III is focused on awareness of the availability and affordability of ICT
services, especially in remote areas. Other targets of the five-year plan include the doubling of
local and foreign investors in the ICT sector, and ensuring that all secondary schools and 50
percent of primary schools are connected to the internet. The plan will also encourage
entrepreneurship in ICT by linking technical colleges, universities and the private sector.15

3.       The Rwandan Information Technology Authority (RITA) was set up during NICI II as a
statutory and autonomous national agency to act as the national ICT implementation and
coordination body. RITA has since been replaced by the Rwanda Development Board-ICT
Department (RDB-ICT). Its main responsibilities include: coordinating national ICT initiatives
and projects; facilitating the implementation of NICI Plan programs; providing advisory and
technical support services to the ministry as well as to public and private sector organizations;
developing national ICT standards and guidelines; and providing public awareness and education
role in the area of ICT.16

4.      The GoR’s ICT initiatives that aim to foster private sector development include several
business and career development support services; online trade information portals; business
incubators; online tax calculators; credit reference bureau; a land administration and management
information system; electronic case management system; and improvements in online banking



14   TeleGeography

15   TeleGeography and MYICT

16   TeleGeography




                                                42
and e-transaction regulatory system. These initiatives have greatly improved Rwanda's business
environment. In 2010, Rwanda was the top global reformer in the World Bank's "Ease of doing
business" ranking, moving up from 143rd in 2009 to 67th, the biggest jump ever recorded by any
country. Online business registration was key to Rwanda's improved ranking in 2011, where it
currently ranks 58th. Construction completion of publicly funded Business Development Centre -
BDC (Telecenters) to support and improve the delivery of public and private sector services.
Currently 30 BDCs are equipped with IT equipment and are operational.17

5.       In November 2001 Law No.44/2001 was passed, which governs the country’s telecoms
sector and marks the beginning of its liberalization. The law states that all telecoms operators
must receive a license from RURA before they can start providing services. As a result, there are
four telecom operators in Rwanda: MTN, TIGO, BSC and Airtel.18

6.       MTN Rwanda and Millicom Rwanda (Tigo) operate under unified licenses under a
regime implemented in 2006, allowing them to operate in the wireline and wireless arenas, while
state-owned New Artel has held a license to provide telecoms services to rural areas at subsidized
rates since 2004 under the Universal Access. In June 2013 Liquid Telecom gained access to the
Rwandan wireline and broadband markets by acquiring the fixed assets of incumbent telco
Rwandatel for US$4 million. Market leader MTN Rwanda claimed a subscriber base of 3.525
million as at 31 March 2014, up from 3.452 million one year earlier, and equivalent to a market
share of 51.6 percent. Meanwhile, at the end of 1Q14 Tigo claimed 2.295 million users, making it
the country’s second largest wireless operators based on the number of subscribers.

7.       The Government has taken some steps to improve Rwanda’s extremely low broadband
penetration; in October 2008 it signed a US$40 million deal with South Korean incumbent telco
KT Corp to construct a national fiber optic backbone throughout the country. KT agreed to supply
and install a network comprising 2,300km of cable, which links 317 institutions (97 in Kigali and
220 outside the capital) in all 30 districts, and connect all nine of Rwanda’s borders. Physical
rollout of the backbone, which included cross-border fiber installation at the Uganda and
Tanzania borders, was completed towards the end of 2010, and the network became fully
operational by the end of April 2011. In 2007 KT was also contracted by the government to
deploy a RWF4.5 billion 10,000-user capacity wireless broadband (WiBro) network in the capital
Kigali, as well as the Kigali Metropolitan Network (KMN), a large fiber-optic computer network
that spans the capital. The WiBro system was launched on a trial basis in December 2009, with
Rwandatel acting as local partner. Meanwhile, the KMN was also launched in December 2009,
increasing broadband availability to public institutions.19

8.      Rwanda’s landlocked location has meant that it has been largely frozen out of the boom
that has seen a number of international submarine cables connect Africa to the rest of the world,
and the government has been forced to rely on agreements with telecoms operators in its
neighboring nations to connect to the likes of the Eastern African Submarine Cable System
(EASSy), The East African Marine System (TEAMS) and SEACOM. In 2009, following
RCIPRW appraisal and agreement on the inclusion of international capacity purchase in the


17   http://www.myict.gov.rw/ict/documentation/tracing-major-developments-in-rwandas-ict-sector/

18   TeleGeography

19   TeleGeography




                                                          43
project, Rwandatel and sister telco Uganda Telecom (UTL) agreed to purchase international
broadband capacity from SEACOM, which in turn secured a backhaul solution for Rwanda on the
two regional players’ terrestrial networks between Ugandan capital Kampala and Kigali. Rwanda
received 155Mbps of newly available broadband capacity in October 2009, when Rwandatel’s
connection to the cable system via microwave links was launched, enabling it to deliver high
speed services to a growing number of clients without experiencing capacity problems.
Furthermore, Rwandatel and UTL contracted Green Future in September 2009 to deliver
SEACOM's fiber connection to both countries. In April 2012 the government announced that it
had signed ten-year contract with Tanzania Telecommunications Company Limited (TTCL) for
the provision of an additional 1.244Gbps of international bandwidth to improve the country’s
Internet connectivity, funded through RCIPRW.20 Both connections came to the Virtual Landing
Point (VLP) established under the project in the GoR’s Telecom House. At this point, BSC was
managing the internal backbone which was built by KT Corps and needed to distribute the new
capacity split among the network in Kigali, the fiber optic under the GoR and the remaining 600
Mb, which was offered to the operators for purchase (Tigo, Airtel and other ISPs).

9.      In 2012, MTN had its own capacity and retail operations. Meanwhile, Tigo and Airtel
were selling retail 2G services and they needed last mile connections. They bought the excess
capacity for their towers and set up wireless connections for phones. They brought their own
towers and sold 2G at 256 kbps. But as the fiber ended at the district level, and not reaching all
the towers. Therefore they needed to cover the remainder of their towers by cable to the wireless
which required a different technology. This led to the introduction of 4G/LTE which can provide
fiber speed on wireless connections. The RURA chose not to divide the available spectrum and
therefore it offered the operators the option to form a consortium to share the spectrum along with
other infrastructure. According to the GoR, the operators were not interested to pursue this
option, hence RURA opened up the tender to an external bidder.

10.     In March 2013 the RDB selected South Korea’s KT Corp to establish a public-private
joint venture company, dubbed Olleh Rwanda Networks (ORN) Ltd. The new partnership has
developed and operates a nationwide 4G Long Term Evolution (LTE) network, as well as
wholesale LTE infrastructure services to customer-facing telcos and mobile virtual network
operators (MVNOs). KT controls the management of the firm, while the Rwandan government
provides financial and administrative support. ORN is set to cover 95 percent of the population by
2017.

11.      In January 2014 the government signed another agreement with KT Corporation, for the
establishment of another joint venture, Rwanda Olleh Services (ROS) Ltd, which is responsible
for improving the provision of online services in the country, such as ICT solutions for public and
private institutions. These two joint ventures with Korea built on a series of partnership deals
between Rwanda and KT Corp, with the South Korean telco previously collaborating with the
government to launch wireless broadband ‘WiBro’ services and also to develop the country’s
fiber-optic backbone.

12.      In contrast to the wireline and wireless sectors, regulation of broadband services in
Rwanda remains limited, and internet service provider (ISP) licenses are awarded on an ad-hoc
basis. At the end of March 2014 a total of nine companies had been licensed by RURA as ISPs,
all of them operational at that date: state-owned New Artel (licensed in 2004), wireless network


20   TeleGeography




                                                44
operator MTN Rwanda (2006), ISPA (2006), mobile operator Millicom Rwanda (Tigo, 2008),
fiber and wireless internet provider Broadband Systems Corporation (BSC, 2010), 4G Networks
(2011), cellular market newcomer Airtel Rwanda (2011), Liquid Telecom (2013) and AXIOM
(2013). MTN Rwanda and Tigo operate under unified licenses, allowing them to provide services
in the wireline and wireless arenas; former state-owned incumbent Rwandatel was also in
possession of a similar unified concession, although its mobile authorization was cancelled in
April 2011 after it failed to meet license obligations.21




21   TeleGeography




                                             45
Annex 8. ICT Glossary
Glossary of ICT terminology used by the Project and ICR

 Term                              Technical/Common Meaning
 Application Architecture          Framework of strategies and plans for developing e-services.
                                   Not solely about ICT infrastructure to build online services but
                                   sets out all the structures – business processes as well as
                                   technology – for effective e-services.
 CERT                              Computer Emergency Response Team (for Internet) for
                                   computer security incidents
 e-Government                      “Digital interactions between a government and citizens,
                                   government and business/commerce, government and
                                   employees, and also government and government/agencies”.
                                   (Wikipedia)
 e-Government Interoperability     is the UK eGovernment Interoperability Framework
 Framework (e-GIF)
 Enterprise Architecture           High-level strategic technique to help senior managers achieve
                                   business and organizational change; a “coherent set/whole of
                                   principles, methods and models used in the design and
                                   realization of an enterprise’s organizational structure, business
                                   processes, information systems and infrastructure (Lankhorst et
                                   al, 2005).
 e-Service                         Role of technology in facilitating delivery of services. “….
                                   deeds, efforts or performances whose delivery is mediated by IT
                                   including e-tailing, customer support and service delivery”.
                                   Three main components: service provider, service receiver, and
                                   service delivery (technology). (Wikipedia)
 Government-wide Network           A communication Infrastructure aimed at connecting all
 (GovNet)                          government agencies onto a single shared and secured
                                   communication platform to promote eGovernment, enhance
                                   productivity within government and foster transparency in in
                                   governance.
 Integrated Financial Management   An IT-based budgeting and accounting system that manages
 Information System (IFMIS)        spending, payment processing, budgeting and reporting for
                                   governments and other entities. An IFMS bundles many
                                   essential financial management functions into one software
                                   suite. Benefits of using IFMIS include:
                                   •Enhanced management of cash, debt and liabilities
                                   •Ability to use historical information to provide better budget
                                   modeling processes
                                   •Reduced cost for financial transactions
                                   •Increased decision-making efficiency
                                    (Technopedia)).
 International Public Sector       A set of accounting standards issued by the IPSAS Board for
 Accounting Standards (IPSAS)      use by public sector entities around the world in the preparation
                                   of financial statements. These standards are based on
                                   International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) issued by
                                   the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB).
                                   (Wikipedia)
 Interoperability Standards and    Means to enable public administrations to collaborate;
 Framework                         framework for ICT-enabled governance; not only a means of
                                   improving public services but of enabling multi-level
                                   governance; supports information sharing among ICT-enabled


                                            46
                                   administrations including across borders. (Wikipedia)
LAN                                Local Area Network
Mobile number portability          Mobile number portability (MNP) enables mobile telephone
regulations                        users to retain their mobile telephone numbers when changing
                                   from one mobile network operator to another. (Source:
                                   Wikipedia)
National IT Architecture           Organized set of consensus decisions on policies and principles,
                                   services and common solutions, standards and guidelines as
                                   well as specific vendor products used by IT providers both
                                   inside and outside an IT entity. IT architecture is designed to
                                   plan, acquire, build, modify, interface and deploy IT resources
                                   throughout departments. – identifying technologies which work
                                   together to satisfy user needs. (Wikipedia).
Organizational Interoperability    Modeling organizational processes, aligning information
                                   architecture with organizational goals and helping these
                                   processes cooperate via ICT. Has specific relevance to e-
                                   government, i.e., not only technology but a broad concept of
                                   modernization of public administration including new skills and
                                   cultures. (Kubicek, Cimander and Scholl).
Payment gateway/e-payment          A payment gateway is an e-commerce application service
platform                           provider service that authorizes credit card payments for e-
                                   businesses, online retailers, bricks and clicks, or traditional
                                   brick and mortar.[1]

                                   A payment gateway facilitates the transfer of information
                                   between a payment portal (such as a website, mobile phone or
                                   interactive voice response service) and the Front End Processor
                                   or acquiring bank. (Wikipedia)
Portal                             A specially-designed web-page at a website which brings
                                   information together from diverse sources in a uniform way.
                                   Usually, each information source gets its dedicated area on the
                                   page for displaying information; the user can configure which
                                   ones to display. (Wikipedia)
Subscriber Identity Module (SIM)   In general, the key objective of SIM card registration is to
Registration Regulations           enhance the basic data collection of phone users, which could
                                   enhance the security as well as lead effective implementation of
                                   other value-added services such as Number Portability Service.
                                   In Ghana, the SIM card registration was implemented
                                   successfully.
Telecom Sector Roadmap             Technology/telecom roadmap is a plan that matches short-term
                                   and long-term goals with specific technology solutions to help
                                   meet those goals. Three major uses: helps reach consensus on a
                                   set of needs and technologies required to satisfy them; provides
                                   a mechanism to help forecast technology developments; and,
                                   provides a framework to help plan and coordinate technological
                                   developments.
WAN                                Wide Area Network




                                           47
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

Project Appraisal Document for a Regional Communications Infrastructure Project (Phase 2) –
Rwanda Project (RCIPRW)

Implementation Support Reports for Regional Communications Infrastructure Project (Phase 2) –
Rwanda Project (RCIPRW)

Aide Memoires prepared for Regional Communications Infrastructure Project (Phase 2) –
Rwanda Project (RCIPRW)

Financial Agreement between the Government of Rwanda and the International Development
Association for Regional Communications Infrastructure Project (Phase 2) – Rwanda Project
(RCIPRW)

Project Implementation Manual for Regional Communications Infrastructure Project (Phase 2) –
Rwanda Project (RCIPRW)

ICT for Burundi Communication Infrastructure Project (IDA-H2830)

ICR for Central Africa Backbone Projet (IDA H6420)

M&E data from World Bank projects P094103 (Kenya), P094103 (Madagascar), P094103
(Burundi)

TeleGeography GlobeComms Report on Rwanda, 2014




                                             48
MAP




      49
