      Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                               Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
      RCIP - Phase 2 - Rwanda Project (P106369)



                                                                                                               Report Number : ICRR0020149


1. Project Data



 Project ID                                             Project Name
 P106369                                                RCIP - Phase 2 - Rwanda Project

 Country                                                Practice Area(Lead)
 Africa                                                 Transport & ICT



  L/C/TF Number(s)                                      Closing Date (Original)                                     Total Project Cost (USD)
  IDA-H4260                                             31-Jan-2014                                                           24,000,000.00

  Bank Approval Date                                    Closing Date (Actual)
  30-Sep-2008                                           31-Jul-2015

                                                             IBRD/IDA (USD)                                                  Grants (USD)

  Original Commitment                                           24,000,000.00                                                         0.00

  Revised Commitment                                            23,903,947.41                                                         0.00

  Actual                                                        22,947,432.13                                                         0.00




 Sector(s)
 Telecommunications(79%):Public administration- Information and communications(21%)

 Theme(s)
 Regional integration(33%):Infrastructure services for private sector development(33%):Regulation and competition
 policy(17%):Administrative and civil service reform(17%)

 Prepared by                        Reviewed by                           ICR Review Coordinator           Group
 Ranga Rajan Krishnamani            Victoria Alexeeva                     Christopher David Nelson         IEGSD (Unit 4)




2. Project Objectives and Components


a. Objectives
    The project development objective as stated in the Financing Agreement (Schedule 1, page 6) and in the Rwanda Technical Annex,
    prepared in lieu of the Project Appraisal Document (PAD) was
    “To contribute to lower prices for international capacity and extend the geographic reach of broadband networks in the Recipient’s
    territory.”
          Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                              Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
          RCIP - Phase 2 - Rwanda Project (P106369)




b. Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
     No



c.   Components
      Component One: Enabling Environment. Appraisal Estimate US$2.67 million, actual cost US$3.48 million. This component planned to
      provide capacity building support to the ICT related government agencies. This included the Ministry in charge of Science, Technology,
      Scientific Research and Information Communication Technologies in the Office of the President, the Rwandan Information and Technology
      Authority (RITA), and the Rwanda Utility Regulatory Agency (RURA). Activities included project management support, technical advisory
      support, training to the staff, analytical support to examine the environmental and social impacts if needed and implementation of the
      communications strategy.
      Component Two: Connectivity: Appraisal Estimate US$18.00 million, actual cost US$17.56 million. This component planned to finance
      activities aimed at improving broadband internet connectivity. There were three sub-components:

          1 The first subcomponent aimed at providing broadband services to targeted public institutions (such as, health centers, universities,
          primary and secondary schools and to local and provincial governments) in selected locations. The services were to be provided by
          either licensed operators or Internet Service Providers (ISPs), selected on a competitive basis. Activities in this subcomponent
          complemented the other ICT investments undertaken by the government and the private sector to boost internet connectivity within the
          country.
          2 The second subcomponent planned to provide international connectivity. Given that Rwanda is landlocked and faced challenges
          in getting access to low-cost international connectivity, activities aimed at purchasing capacity for international connectivity for
          government uses from neighboring countries.
          3 The third subcomponent supported the establishment of a third party virtual landing station. The station was to be a neutral exchange
          point which was to house the termination point for international cables and which would allow the operators and Internet Service
          Providers to interconnect on a non-discriminatory basis. Activities included, acquisition of goods (such as telecommunications
          equipment), carrying out of works and providing technical advisory services.


      Component Three: Project Management Support: Appraisal Estimate US$2.19 million, actual cost US$2.03 million.
      Activities included advisory services and capacity building support to the Project Implementation Unit in the areas of project management,
      implementation, monitoring and evaluation, and financing the operating costs of the unit.
      Contingency expenses: Appraisal Estimate US$1.14 million. In view of the rapid changes in the ICT market, a 5 percent contingency
      was included in the budget. The ICR states that the figures for expenses incurred for contingencies were not available at closure.



d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates
      Project Cost: Appraisal Estimate US$24.00 million (including baseline cost and costs for contingencies), Actual Cost US$23.09 million.
      There were some variations in the costs of project components due to exchange rate fluctuations between the SDR and the US$
      during implementation as well as reallocation of funding.
      Project Financing: The project was funded by an IDA grant. Appraisal estimate of the grant US$24.00 million, amount
      disbursed US$23.09 million.
      Borrower Contribution: None was planned.
      Dates: The project was had a restructuring on 01/29/2014. During the implementation phase in 2011, there was a reallocation of funding
      between components and one activity was cancelled due to a change in government policy aimed at involving the private sector in
      delivery of broadband services. Following this restructuring, the project closing date was extended by 18 months from January 31, 2014
      to July 31, 2015, for completing the ongoing activities.




3. Relevance of Objectives & Design

a. Relevance of Objectives

     At appraisal, the Government’s development strategy aimed at transforming the agricultural-based economy to a service-sector based
     economy. There were positive developments in the ICT sector in the years before appraisal and this provided a foundation for future
               Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                            Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
               RCIP - Phase 2 - Rwanda Project (P106369)



       investments in the sector. The developments included, installation of a GovNet to link ministries, the initiation of the TracNet system for
       health, creating strategic ICT plans for ministries and creation of ministry websites and mobile applications. Alongside these changes. there
       were institutional changes aimed at improving the regulatory environment, such as privatization of Rwanda Telecom, issuing licenses to five
       Internet Service Providers and launching the process for a third mobile network license in 2008. Despite these developments, ICT tariffs
       remained high, teledensity (defined as the number of telephone connections for every hundred households living within a geographic area)
       was only 9.7% as compared to the 19% average for Sub-Saharan Africa (SSA) countries and ICT services remained confined to urban areas.
       The government strategy “Vision 2020” was endorsed by Cabinet in 2000 identifying the ICT sector as a key growth driver for making the
       transition to a service based economy. The “Vision 2020” document was made operational by the National Information and Communications
       Infrastructure (NICI) plans which laid out how this transformation was to be achieved. During implementation, the government had issued the
       third NICI plan for the 2010-2015 period that identified developing ICT services cross five areas: skills, the private sector, the community, e-
       Government and cyber security. At appraisal, the Bank's Interim Strategy Note for Rwanda for the 2007-2008 period highlighted the need for
       stimulating growth through penetration of ICT services. The project development objectives were consistent with the Country Partnership
       Strategy (CPS) for the 2014-2018 period that highlighted the need for accelerating private sector driven economic growth. The development
       objectives were relevant to the Bank’s 10 year vision in the Regional Strategy for Africa (2011), which placed ICT as a key enabler for
       promoting regional economic integration.




       Rating
       High


   b. Relevance of Design

       This project was the second phase of a broader Regional Communications Infrastructure Program aimed at improving and integrating the
       Information and Communication Technology (ICT) sector across countries in Eastern and Southern Africa. The first phase was in Burundi,
       Madagascar and Kenya. Phase three countries included Malawi, Tanzania and Mozambique, Phase four Comoros, and projects were under
       preparation to date for Phase five countries in Uganda, South Sudan and Somalia.
       The results chain is convincing and the causal links between the project’s anticipated activities and outputs and the expected outcomes were
       logical. While capacity building to the Rwandan Information Technology Authority and the telecom regulatory agency (component one) activities
       can be expected to contribute to provide for an enabling environment for the development of the ICT sector, the outputs of component two
       (connectivity-related) activities can be expected to increase access to broadband services in the country. The combination of these two
       activities can be expected to contribute to lowering the prices for ICT services and extending the geographic coverage of broadband services
       within the country.




       Rating
       Substantial




   4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy)
PHREVISEDTBL



    Objective 1

    Objective
     To contribute to lower prices for international capacity.


    Rationale
    Project outputs which were common to both the objectives are listed as follows.

        • Training was provided to the staff of the ministry of ICT and relevant state agencies (such as the Rwandan Utility Regulatory Agency
               Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                          Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
               RCIP - Phase 2 - Rwanda Project (P106369)



        (RURA), Rwanda Development Board (RDB), 35 district ICT officers and 270 local government from 18 districts).
        • Five network administrator of the National Data Center were mentored by a IT Network hired by the Regional Communications
        Infrastructure Program.
        • Stakeholders Workshops were held as targeted with relevant government agencies and the Ministry in Charge of Science,
        Technology, Scientific Research and Information Communications Technologies and public institutions.
        • Broadband connectivity was provided to 700 institutions. 200 Rwanda online points were established online. 37 schools were
        connected to the Local Area Network (LAN).
        • Virtual Landing Station was established as targeted.
        • Under the auspices of the project, which allowed for purchase of broadband capacity from other countries, contracts to pre
        purchase broadband capacity from regional networks was completed as targeted.
        • 10 mbs of data were provided to all mobile data subscribers daily free of charge.
        • Support to the roll out of broadband services was not implemented by establishing a network between the public institutions as
        originally planned, as the Government had engaged a private investor to establish a country wide network.


    Objective One: To contribute to lower prices for international capacity is rated Substantial.
    Outcome.

        • The wholesale price of international capacity link from Rwanda to European hub dropped from US$10,000/mbps at the base line,
        to US$125/mbps at project closure, as compared to the target of US$4,000/mbps.
        • The retail price of Internet services (per/mbit/per month) dropped from US$1,015 at the baseline to US$201.17 at project closure, as
        compared to the target of US$781.
        • The average monthly price of 128kbit/broadband connections dropped from US$130 at the baseline to US$51 at closure as compared
        to the target of US$100.




    Rating
    Substantial

PHREVISEDTBL



    Objective 2

    Objective
     To extend the geographic reach of broadband services.

    Rationale
    Objective Two: To extend the geographic reach of broadband services. Substantial.
    Outcome.

        • Volume of international traffic (measured in Megabits per second (Mbs/s) increased from 235 at the baseline to 11,684 at project
        closure and as compared to the target of 600 Mbs/s.
        • Volume of national traffic was measured by two proxies: Internet user penetration and total teledensity (fixed and mobile). Number of
        broadband (internet) subscribers increased from 726 at the baseline to 2,515,689 at project closure and as compared to the target of
        4,500. Total teledensity (fixed mainline and cellular phones per 100 people) increased from 9.4 at the baseline to 71.23 at project
        closure and as compared to the target of 15.


    While all the targets were substantially surpassed at project closure, there is an attribution issue, in view of the complementary ICT
    activities undertaken by the government and the private sector. It is however reasonable to conclude that the project made a significant
    contribution to realizing the project development outcome.
       Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                 Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
       RCIP - Phase 2 - Rwanda Project (P106369)



 Rating
 Substantial



5. Efficiency

 A cost benefit analysis was conducted both at appraisal and at closure to assess the impact of broadband services using the same
 methodology. This component accounted for approximately 75% of the total project cost. The potential benefits to the economy were
 assumed to come through three types of revenue for the government - income tax, Value Added Tax (VAT-18% in Rwanda) and ICT specific
 fees (such as, license fees and Universal Service Fund levies-2% in Rwanda). The Net Present Value of the economic benefits with the
 project was estimated at appraisal to be US$120 million as compared to US$80 million without the project. At closure, the ex post Economic
 Rate of Return was estimated at 37%, with NPV of US$474.9 million, significantly exceeding the ex ante EIRR of 17%. The ICR (p.14) notes
 that the issue of attribution was to be tackled by comparing the value added of the project to a scenario without the project, however the
 model faced limitations in terms of accounting for exogenous factors, and the consumer surplus calculations attributed reduction in prices to
 the project. Based on doing an additional 'without a project' scenario on the case of Uganda that has a comparable market, the estimated
 NPV of the project was still significantly higher.
 Administrative and operational issues. There were procurement delays and these contributed to project closing 18 months beyond
 schedule.




Efficiency Rating
Substantial


a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR) and/or Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the re-estimated
   value at evaluation:

                                              Rate Available?              Point value (%)                   *Coverage/Scope (%)

                                                                                                             75.00
 Appraisal                                                                17.00
                                                                                                             Not Applicable

                                                                                                             76.00
 ICR Estimate                                                             37.00
                                                                                                             Not Applicable

* Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



6. Outcome

Relevance of the objective is rated High and that of design is Substantial. Efficacy of the two sub-objectives was rated Substantial. All the
outcome targets were significantly surpassed, and while there is an issue of attribution, it is reasonable to conclude that the project made a
significant contribution to realizing the project development outcome. Efficiency was rated Substantial.



a.    Outcome Rating
      Satisfactory



7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating
         Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                 Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
         RCIP - Phase 2 - Rwanda Project (P106369)



There is a moderate risk relating to ongoing benefits from the project. The project ensured that all-equipment provision would be paired with a
sustainability and maintenance plan. The ICR (page 17) notes that the government is committed to expanding the use of ICT in public institutions
and indicated that the cost of the broadband connectivity provided to institutions was to be shared by the institutions themselves, however the
government did not provide detailed plans on the exact nature of cost-sharing.



a.     Risk to Development Outcome Rating
       Modest


8. Assessment of Bank Performance

a. Quality-at-Entry
     The project design built on the lessons from a prior Bank financed projects which had ICT related aspects (Rwanda Gateway Development
     Gateway (2000-20009), Public Sector Capacity Building Project (2004-2011) and The eRwanda Project 2006-2010) and from other Bank
     financed ICT projects in the regional program (Regional Communications Infrastructure Program in Burundi and Kenya). The project
     implementation unit that was implementing a Bank- financed ICT project was retained for this project and this, in combination with the
     provisions made for retroactive financing, aided in accelerating project preparation. The Board approved the project in September 2008 and
     the project became effective in January 2009, just three months after approval. One lesson learnt from the countries participating in the first
     phase of the program (Burundi, Madagascar and Kenya) was to address the wide variations in the administrative capacity of the countries to
     implement the project, which could in turn contribute to delays in completing the project. In view of the weak administrative capacity in
     Rwanda, this project had a five year implementation period as compared to the four year implementation schedule for the projects in Burundi
     and Madagascar. In view of the rapidly changing ICT market and difficulties associated with predicting costs with certainty, the design
     included an allocation of funding for meeting contingencies. Several risks (both country-specific and project specific) were identified
     at appraisal and risk mitigation measures were incorporated and the overall risk of the project was rated moderate. The targets for
     the indicators were set at very low levels.




     Quality-at-Entry Rating
     Satisfactory


b. Quality of supervision
     11 Implementation Status Reports (ISRs) were filed over a seven year period, implying roughly twice a year supervision missions. The
     supervision missions included financial and procurement specialist, ICT sector specialists and economists. Although the Bank engagement
     was strong during preparation and the early years of the project, the number of supervision missions declined between 2011 and 2013 due to
     difference of views between the Government and the then task team leader of the project over the approach taken by the Government to
     extend a high-speed internet to the majority of the national population. Following the change in team leadership, the intensity of supervision
     increased and this aided in the quick resolution of the differences between the Bank and the Government. As the ICR (p.18) highlights,
     although the project's targets were already surpassed in the initial years of the project, and there was an issue of attribution, the supervision
     team did not raise this as a concern and modify the targets, despite a Mid Term Review and project restructuring.



     Quality of Supervision Rating
     Moderately Satisfactory

     Overall Bank Performance Rating
     Moderately Satisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance

a. Government Performance
     The Government Commitment to the project remained strong through the project execution phase. In the important phases of the project
     implementation (i.e., negotiations and the launch of the second operator), the government showed ability to swiftly take decisions under the
       Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
       RCIP - Phase 2 - Rwanda Project (P106369)



   rapidly changing conditions in the ICT sector. The relevant Ministry demonstrated proactive leadership in driving the project towards its
   objective.



   Government Performance Rating
   Satisfactory


b. Implementing Agency Performance
   The Rwanda Development Board- ICD Department (RDB-ICT) –previously called the Rwanda Information Technology Authority (RITA),
   under the Ministry of Youth and ICT (previously under the Ministry of Science, Technology, Scientific Research and Information
   Communication Technologies) was in overall charge of implementing the project. The regulatory aspects of the project were under the
   telecom regulator – the Rwandan Utility Regulatory Agency (RURA). The project team demonstrated commitment towards the project.
   There was compliance with safeguards and fiduciary aspects (discussed in section 11). Despite the leveraging of a team which had
   experience with implementing a prior Bank financed project, there were staffing issues associated with managing both projects and the
   required skills to handle complex tender documents. Also, the low capacity of the implementing capacity resulted in delays with financial
   and procurement management.



   Implementing Agency Performance Rating
   Moderately Satisfactory

   Overall Borrower Performance Rating
    Moderately Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization

a. M&E Design
   The three key outcome monitoring indicators at the preparation stage were appropriate. These were: (i) volume of international traffic (Mbit/s);
   (ii) volume of national traffic using two proxies: Internet user penetration (measured by the number of broadband subscribers and total
   teledensity (fixed and mobile telephones per 1,000 inhabitants); and (iii) average price of international telecommunication (using the proxy of
   price of wholesale international capacity link from Rwanda to European Hub- E1. (The PAD, page 37 ) notes that an “E1” is a standard measure
   of capacity in digital communications links). The targets were set at very low levels as most targets were surpassed at an early stage of the
   project prior to Mid Term Review. As the ICR (p.8) adds given rapid changes in the technology and the emergence of mobile broadband, this
   was a common challenge in the ICT sector at that time.




b. M&E Implementation
   One additional core indicator – the retail price of internet services (per Mbits/per month in US$) was added in the implementation phase.
   Rwandan Information Technology Authority was in charge of reporting on the M&E indicators and in charge of collecting data on indicators
   relating to the institutional component of the project (Component One activities). The Rwanda Utility Regulatory Authority (RURA) was
   responsible for collecting data for monitoring developments in the ICT sector (component two activities), as this agency had the mandate for
   collecting this information. The ICR does not report on how the M&E was implemented.




c. M&E Utilization
   The ICR does not report on the M&E utilization. In the ICR, the M&E indicators were utilized for assessing the achievement of the project
   development objectives.
          Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                  Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
          RCIP - Phase 2 - Rwanda Project (P106369)




   M&E Quality Rating
   Substantial


11. Other Issues

a. Safeguards
   The project was classified as a “Category B” project for environmental assessment purposes. Two safeguard policies were triggered by the
   project: Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01) and Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP4.12).
   The PAD (page 75) notes that the actual physical components of the project were the following: (a) The building of wireless networks using
   existing fixed infrastructure. (b) Indirect financing for the laying of some fiber-optic cable. (c) Support for the establishment of a third party
   virtual landing station in Kigali. Land acquisition for terrestrial facilities would be required only in the case of the virtual landing station. At
   the appraisal stage, a draft Environmental and Social Management Framework (ESMF) and a Resettlement Plan Framework (RPF) was
   prepared by the government and publicly disclosed.
   The ICR (page 9) reports that the project complied with the Bank’s safeguard rules throughout the implementation phase. The project did
   not finance the fiber optic cable and since the virtual landing station was housed in an existing building, the ESMF was never applied.
   Likewise, as the virtual landing station was set up within existing infrastructure, new land acquisition was not necessary.




b. Fiduciary Compliance
   Financial Management. A Financial Management Assessment was conducted, and based on this assessment, a Financial Management Action
   Plan to strengthen financial management arrangements was prepared at the appraisal stage. The project’s initial audits were qualified but after
   2012, the audits were unqualified and these were submitted in a timely fashion. Likewise, although the interim financial reports were submitted
   on time although of varying quality in the initial stages. The quality of these reports however improved as the project progressed.

   Procurement: There were procurement delays associated with activities under the second component and this led to extension of the project
   closing date. Despite delays, procurement was in compliance with Bank guidelines and athough the post review identified some irregularities in
   the area of filing, these were corrected.




c. Unintended impacts (Positive or Negative)
    ---



d. Other
    ---




12. Ratings
                                                                                                                   Reason for
Ratings                                   ICR                                   IEG
                                                                                                                   Disagreements/Comment
Outcome                                   Satisfactory                         Satisfactory                        ---
Risk to Development Outcome               Modest                               Modest                              ---
Bank Performance                          Moderately Satisfactory              Moderately Satisfactory             ---
Borrower Performance                      Moderately Satisfactory              Moderately Satisfactory             ---
Quality of ICR                                                                 Substantial                         ---
        Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                 Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
        RCIP - Phase 2 - Rwanda Project (P106369)




Note
When insufficient information is provided by the Bank for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade the relevant ratings as warranted
beginning July 1, 2006.
The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column could cross-reference other sections of the ICR Review, as appropriate.


13. Lessons

The ICR draws the following main lessons from implementing this project.
(1). The standards for key results indicators for the ICT projects needs to be reexamined on a regular basis. Given the rapidly changing nature
of the ICT sector, project teams and implementation units need to closely monitor the achievement of indicators and periodically check their
validity and amend them as necessary to reflect the reality of the ICT sector at the time.
(2) When considering the expansion of Wi-Fi networks for educational and other institutions, it is important to consider the nature of the
demand. It is also important to assess if there is adequate broadband access, including links to the fiber networks, for institutions that are either
equipped with Wi-Fi connections or supported with ICT equipment such as laptops. In the case of this project, certain beneficiary institutions
that received laptops through the projects were not provided with broadband access at project closure.




14. Assessment Recommended?

No


15. Comments on Quality of ICR

The ICR provides a concise description of the implementation challenges through the life of the project. It provides sufficient background of the
ICT sector and provides a candid discussion of the attribution issues. The glossary of ICT terms provided in Annex 8 (page 46 and 47) is
useful. The ICR could have provided more details on the disagreement between the Bank and the implementing agency over project
design, which was the source of implementation delays. Also, it should have reported on the M&E implementation by the implementing
agency as well as utilization.




a.   Quality of ICR Rating
     Substantial
