Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 3549-BT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
A THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
IN THE
REPUBLIC OF BOTSIWANA
October 1, 1981
Education Projects Division
Eastern Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-2-
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Pula(P) 1            =         US$1.28
US$ 1.00            =       Pula 0.78
MEASURES
1 meter (in)           =        3.28 feet (ft)
1 square meter(m2)            =       10.76 square ft (ft2)
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
AfDB    -    African Development Bank
CJSS    -    Community Junior Secondary Schools
COSC    -    Cambridge Overseas School Certificate
DANIDA  -    Danish International Development Agency
EEC     -    European Economic Community
ICB     -    International Competitive Bidding
JCE     -    Junior Certificate Examination
MLGL    -    Ministry of Local Government and Lands
MOE     -    Ministry of Education
MOWC    -    Ministry of Works and Communications
NDPV    -    Fifth National Development Plan, 1979-85
ODA     -    Overseas Development Agency of the United Kingdom
PEIP    -    Primary Education Improvement Project
PIU     -    Project Implementation Unit
PLSC    -    Primary School Leaver Certificate
PTTC    -    Primary Teacher Training College
RSA     -    Republic of South Africa
SIDA    -    Swedish International Development Agency
TAPU    -    Teaching Aids Production Unit
UCB     -    University College of Botswana
UNDP    -    United Nations Development Program
USAID   -    United States Agency for International Development
REPUBLIC OF BOTSWANA
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31



-3-                  FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
A THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT IN THE
REPUBLIC OF BOTSWANA
Table of Contents
Page No.
BASIC DATA
I.  SOCIO-ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AND HUMAN RESOURCES ....      .........  1
Geographic and Socio-Economic Setting ......................  1
Labor Force and Employment ............................,...    1
II.  THE EDUCATION SECTOR AND MAJOR ISSUES IN EDUCATION
DEVELOPMENT ............                                          2
Overview ..........  2
Education Policy, Strategy, and Plan ......     .................   3
General Objectives .....................      ,    .,          3
Primary Education ....................   3
Secondary Education ....................   5
University Education ....................   7
Technical and Vocational Training .......     ................   7
Non-formal Education .....................,.,.,                8
Education Finance ....................   8
Role of the Bank in Botswana Education Development .... .....  10
Lending Strategy in the Education Sector ....       ............... 11
III. THE PROJECT.12
Objectives . .........................................  12
Project Components .........................................  12
Primary School Classroom Facilities ......     ............... 12
Primary School Textbooks ..........................,.14
This report is based on the findings of a mission which visited Botswana in
March 1981 and included Ms. R. Brandenburg (Economist/Mission Leader) and
Messrs. K. Andersen (Architect), R. McMahon (Technical Educator, Consultant)
and N. Al-Bukhari (General Educator, Unesco). The project was further
reviewed in July 1981 by Messrs. Andersen and J. L. Scearce (Division Chief).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-4-
Table of Contents (Continued)                                        Page No.
Primary Teacher Training College .........................     14
Technical Assistance ....................                      14
Monitoring and Evaluation ..................................      15
Female Participation in the Education System ....    ...........  15
Participation of Donor Agencies in the Education Sector ....      16
IV.  PROJECT COST AND FINANCIAL PLAN ............................      17
Project Cost .............   17
Financial  Plan  .............................................    19
V.  IMPLEMENTATION, PROCUREMENT, DISBURSEMENT AND AUDITING ......     20
Implementation           .............  20
Procurement    .......................... ......................  22
Disbursement   ............. .................................    23
Auditing  ...................................................     23
VI.  BENEFITS AND RISKS .......................                        24
VII.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECCOIMMENDATIONS .....................    24
ANNEX I - TABLES AND CHARTS
Table 1 - Comparative Education Indicators
Table 2 - Projections of Primary School Enrollments, 1980-1990
Table 3 - Government Expenditures on Education, 1976/77-1985/86
Table 4 - Primary Education Teacher Requirements and Supply, 1980-1990
Table 5 - Summary of Estimated Project Cost
Table 6 - Estimated Cost by Category
Table 7 - Implementation Schedule
Table 8 - Estimated Schedule of Disbursement
Chart 1 - Ministry of Education Organization Chart
Chart 2 - Structure of the Educational System, 1979
Chart 3 - Education Pyramid, 1980
Chart 4 - Ministry of Local Government and Lands Organization Chart
ANNEX 2 - Overview of the Education Sector
ANNEX 3 - Government Guidelines for Primary School Development
ANNEX 4 - Key Indicators for Project Implementation
ANNEX 5 - Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
Map IBRD No. 15730R



-5-
REPUBLIC OF BOTSWANA
BASIC DATA 1979/80
General
Area                                           570,000 Km2
Population                                     0.8 million
Growth Rate                                    2.8%
Per Capita Income                               US$720
Education
Enrollment in Primary Schools
(Standards 1-7)                          170,840
- as % of 6-12 age group                      94%
Enrollment in Secondary Schools
(Forms I-V)                               20,990
- as % of 13-17 age group                     20%
Literacy Rate                                    35%
Expenditures
Recurrent Expenditure of Ministry
of Education as % of Government
Recurrent expenditures                         20.0%
Capital Expenditures on Education and
and Training as % of Government
Capital Expenditures                            8.2%
Total Government Expenditures on
Education and Training as % of
GDP                                             6.3%



A



REPUBLIC OF BOTSWANA
APPRAISAL OF A THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
I. SOCIO-ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AND HUMAN RESOURCES
Geographic and Socio-Economic Setting
1.01      Botswana is a Republic bordered by the Republic of South Africa,
Namibia, Zambia, and Zimbabwe. It is about the size of France but has
a population of only about 0.8 million, three quarters of whom live along
the north-south axis of the railway line. The Kalahari Desert covers
about two thirds of the country. The climate is continental and
semi-arid; average annual rainfall is 18 inches but annual amounts vary
considerably and distribution through the season is usually erratic.
1.02      Agriculture provides the livelihood to about 80% of Botswana½s
population with cattle raising being the dominant economic activity within
the sector. Five percent of the population own about half of the national
herd, some three million head of cattle, while 45% own no cattle at all.
Over the last decade, diamond, nickel, and copper mining have spurred
economic growth and reduced the high dependence on livestock. The value
of Botswana's diamond production tripled between 1977 and 1979, and
diamonds now account for more than 50% of exports. The economy has come
to depend largely on the mineral sector which is highly capital intensive.
1.03      The Government's financial position has gradually strengthened
since 1972; the recurrent budget surpluses have covered about half of the
steadily growing capital expenditures that were previously financed exter-
nally. Rising income from the Southern African Customs Union, direct
taxes, and minerals, have brought Government revenues to an estimated P
137 million (US$165 million) in 1978/79 and although about one quarter of
the 1978/79 expenditures were diverted to unplanned projects, the Govern-
ment-s financial position did not suffer, since revenues grew faster than
expected and additional grants from bilateral and multilateral sources
were provided. Botswana-s Fifth National Development Plan, 1979-85
(NDPV), is based on the assumption that favorable growth conditions will
continue through the first half of the 1980s. Growth of GDP in real terms
is projected at about 10% p.a. based on rather optimistic assumptions on
the volume, quality, and prices of diamonds expected to be mined.
Labor Force and Employment
1.04      Botswana's labor force is estimated at 370,000, 20% locally
employed in formal wage employment, 8% employed in the mines of the
Republic of South Africa (RSA), 5% in the informal sector, and the rest
engaged in subsistence agriculture, animal husbandry, and other rural
income generating activities. Formal employment has increased about 83%
between 1972 and 1979. The bulk of new employment opportunities were
created in construction and utilities as a result of investment activity



-2-
in these sectors. The number of Batswana(l) employed in the RSA declined
by about 48% between 1976 and 1979 mainly due to the increasing
availability of South African nationals and the preference of recruiting
agencies for more experienced workers.
1.05      Despite the rising trend in employment opportunities, Botswana
will face a serious unemployment problem. Available data indicate that
the growing population and the increasing number of returning migrant
workers may result in a need to provide 15,000 to 16,000 additional jobs
p.a.. However, even under optim:istic assumptions (e.g., 10% p.a. in real
GDP growth) it appears unlikely t:hat more than 6,700 jobs p.a. would be
created in the formal sector and another 3,000 p.a. in the informal sector
during the period 1980-85. In NDPV the Government has given highest
priority to the agricultural sector to increase employment productivity,
and incomes. Moreover, despite the limitations for growth in the manufac-
turing sector the Government proposes a number of measures to make better
use of the sector-s potential because of Botswana-s unfavorable competi-
tive position vis-a-vis the RSA.
1.06      While unemployment prevails among unskilled workers, Botswana
has a chronic shortage of middle and high level skilled manpower and to
alleviate this, the Government has been forced to recruit a large number
of expatriates. Meanwhile, projects are underway to train local labor,
including on-the-job training, ani a program has been initiated to local-
ize the skilled labor force. In addition, a recently established Govern-
ment policy placing an employment ceiling on the Government sector, which
has been absorbing large numbers of skilled manpower in recent years,
should relieve some of the pressure on the market for the skilled and
semi-skilled manpower.
II. THE EDUCATION SECTOR AND MAJOR ISSUES IN EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT
Overview
2.01      The rapid expansion of the education sector in the fifteen years
since Independence (1966) has not been achieved without evident strains
on the system. These strains become more manifest as Botswana moves
towards a modern sector economy, with growing demands for skilled man-
power, and with the concomitant need to realign the system towards new
objectives. Annex 1, T-1 provides comparative education indicators.
Annex 1, C-l, C-2, and C-3 are the Ministry of Education's (MOE) organiza-
tion chart, the structure of the education system and the education
pyramid, respectively.
1. Batswana is the name of the people of Botswana.



-3-
2.02      Manpower development at both middle and higher levels has been
an important objective, not only to meet annual needs but also to decrease
gradually the dependence of the country on expatriates. Achievements in
this respect during the 1970-s in vocational/technical education and
training, both formal and non-formal, and at the higher education level
have been satisfactory but not to the extent of establishing a foundation
for an accelerated process of localization of the existing manpower and of
the additional manpower required in the future.
Education Policy, Strategy, and Plan
2.03    General Objectives.  The Education Development Plan contained in
NDPV in its general objectives and strategies identifies the main problems
facing the education sector in Botswana. It has laid down the order of
priorities within the sector, and has outlined plans and programs to
fulfill the objectives and resolve some of the problems in a short and
long-term perspective. In general, educational opportunities will be
increased at all levels, inequalities will be reduced, and manpower needs
will be addressed, especially those of the rural sector. Within these
general objectives, the development of primary education is given
priority. Access, equity and relevance in primary education will be the
main focus of the educational development.  In this respect, the Govern-
ment-s policy is balanced and well conceived. Earlier urgent priorities,
specifically in the field of manpower demand, are being met by ongoing
programs for the expansion and improvement of secondary and techni-
cal/vocational education and training. Moreover, the Government recog-
nizes that teacher shortages and implementation constraints, which are
likely to persist through 1985, and the need to consolidate and evaluate
past performance, preclude further expansion in these areas in the
immediate future. The NDPV therefore rightly accords top priority to
educational issues hitherto not adequately addressed in previous education
development plans: universal primary education, improved and more equi-
table access to junior secondary schools, and the qualitative improvement
of both primary and secondary education.
2.04    Primary Education.  Specific aims with regard to primary education
include: (a) the attainment of seven years universal primary education for
the 6-13 age group by the mid-1980's; (b) the improvement of the quality
of primary education; and (c) in the longer term, the provision of nine
years of basic education to all Batswana in the relevant age group 6-15,
under a restructured 6+3+3 education system.
2.05      Many children in remote areas do not have access to schools;
physical facilities and equipment are not equitably distributed, and
because of the insufficient number of trained teachers available, many
schools, specially those in rural areas, are poorly staffed. The Govern-
ment intends to increase educational opportunities by providing classrooms
for small communities lacking such facilities, and to raise the quality of
primary education particularly in rural areas.



-4-
2.06    The Government's actions and plans to carry out 4ts policy as
regard primary education include: (a) a classroom for every primary
school class as soon as possible, together with other basic facilities.
However, this is not expected to be achieved during NDPV period because
some districts do not yet possess the implementation capacity for such an
endeavor.  During the NDPV periocd, it is expected that 80% of classes
projected for 1985 will be completed.  This implies that many schools will
continue to operate shift systems for the foreseeable future.  By 1985,
2,150 additional classrooms will be required, ie. or average 400 to 500
classrooms (plus other facilities) will have to be built each year (para.
3.02). Guidelines for the location of new schools stress: (i) priority
for classes which are now being taught in the open air; and (ii) the need
to reduce the distance children have to walk to school (para. 3.04); (b)
increasing the supply of qualified teachers by the recent expansion of the
three existing primary teacher training colleges (PTTC-s) financed by the
Overseas Development Agency of the United Kingdom (ODA) and a new PTTC
included under this proposed project. The Government anticipates that by
1985 the deficit of trained teachers, even in the expanded primary school
system, will have been reduced from 36% (1979) to 25% (Annex 1, T-4); (c)
improving the qualifications of bDth trained and untrained teachers by (i)
expanding the existing in-service training program(2) by the construction
of new Education Centers in rural areas; (ii) recruiting to the untrained
primary teacher ranks Form 5 secondary graduates whose compulsory period
of community service would include primary school teaching (a pilot scheme
for 50 such graduates was launched in 1979); and (iii) requiring can-
didates for PTTC-s to undertake a probationary year of unqualified teach-
ing before entering college. To ensure that disadvantaged areas are not
discriminated against in the supply of qualified teachers, a quota system
for these areas has been introduced at PTTC-s; (d) improving the organiza-
tion and administration of primary education through the United States
Agency for International Development (USAID)-sponsored Primary Education
Improvement Project (PEIP); The PEIP is expected to provide major
institutional assistance in both pre--service and in-service training to
primary teacher training college staff, primary school head teachers
(principals) and primary school inspectors. The PEIP will establish a
department of Primary Education at UCB which will offer two and four year
undergraduate programs leading to a diploma and the Bachelor of Education
(BEd) degree.  It is expected that by 1990 all faculty of the PTTCs will
be Batswana who have completed the BEd degree or equivalent. Currently
50% of the faculty of the PTTCs are expatriates and will be phased out.
The program will take in about 30 students p.a. of whom about two-thirds
will pursue the BEd degree and the balance will take a two-year diploma
program leading to careers as primary school head teachers, senior
teachers and inspectors. The project's in-service program will aim at
2. An in-service teacher training program, presently operating from 10
Education Centers, which in 1979 provided short courses for 1,500 primary
teachers.



-5-
providing a series of workshops for all head teachers, and senior teachers
now in the primary school system. (e) updating the primary school and
PTTC curricula and teaching methodology, including a more practical
approach to all subjects, by accelerating the work of the Curriculum
Development and Evaluation Department of the MOE which has to date com-
pleted curriculum revisions for Standards 1 and 2; (f) introducing a
Standard 4 competency test to counteract the less desirable effects of
automatic promotion (the first was held in 1980 and is presently being
evaluated) and modifying the Primary School Leaver Certificate (PSLC) in
line with new curriculum developments; and (g) providing teaching/learning
materials on an increasing scale through the Teaching Aids Production Unit
(TAPU), established in 1976/77 with assistance from UNICEF and the Danish
International Development Agency (DANIDA), and which has produced and
field tested a significant number of printed and other teaching aids, as
well as convening courses for teachers in the development and use of
simple educational materials.
2.07      Many of the developments described above are as yet in the early
stages of implementation; they are, however, an indication of the Govern-
ment's serious concern for universal access to, and the quality of primary
education and the considerable software assistance being provided by
numerous donor agencies.
2.08      Secondary Education.  The Government-s long-term objectives for
secondary education are:
(a) to seek to meet manpower requirements, particularly for
Form 5 leavers with good qualifications in mathematics and
science; and
(b) to provide universal access to junior secondary education.
Secondary education will be restructured eventually to provide junior
secondary (Forms 1-3) and senior secondary (Forms 4-6) courses in separate
institutions (para. 2.04).
2.09     In the short term, and in furtherance of these objectives, the
Government has accorded high priority to the improvement of existing
private Community Junior Secondary Schools (CJSS) and to the establishment
of a new generation of low cost CJSS jointly financed by the Government
and local communities. From 1983 to 1985, the Government will addition-
ally finance the construction of four JSS streams each year in locations
where communities cannot reasonably be expected to contribute to the
expansion of CJSS. A more limited senior secondary school expansion
program is proposed; from 1983 to 1985 two additional streams will be
constructed each year from Government resources to meet the envisaged
growing demand for senior secondary places resulting from the expansion of
the junior secondary subsystem, and to increase the supply of well
qualified Form 5 leavers. Finally, and only towards the end of the NDPV
period, and providing Government access norms for junior secondary educa-
tion have been achieved, a start may be made on a phased conversion of



-6-
some Government/aided general secondary schools (Forms 1-5) into
exclusively senior secondary schools (Forms 4-6) with the objective of
modestly expanding access to this level of education.
2.10    The expansion of the CJSS system will emanate from local proposals
to the Government for either the improvement of an existing, or for the
construction of a new CJSS. To this end the Government has published and
circulated to all CJSS headmasters and managers a document describing                      a
criteria for the improvement of existing, or for the location of a new
CJSS, and a project memorandum clata form to be filled out by com-
munity/school representatives requesting Government aid for capital
projects. By October 1980, 14 of the existing 20 CJSS had submitted
requests. This development project is being supported from the proceeds
of the Second Bank assisted Education Project (Loan 1828-BT) (para. 2.25)
and administered by the "Community Junior Secondary Schools (Development)
Committee."
2.11    Specifically, the Government-s development target for 1979-85 aims
at providing JSS places for 50% of net primary school graduates (excluding
Standard 7 repeaters), and at rigorously controlling access to senior
secondary level. Concretely, the target calls for an additional 9,000 JSS
places, most of them (68%), however, in the new low cost CJSS and a modest
increase of 900 senior secondary places, a target which, given the
expected large increase in JSS graduates, will effectively reduce the
progression rate from junior to senior secondary levels from about 34%
(1979) to about 29%. This is an ambitious program which the Government
concedes may not be wholly attainable by 1985.
2.12      With regard to the provision of secondary school teachers, it
has been calculated that to meet secondary school enrollment targets, the
secondary school teacher stock will need to be increased from the present
778 (1979) to 1,130. Given its further objective, to reduce dependence on
expatriate teachers from the present 70% to about 38%, the Government
plans: (a) to increase degree level intakes at UCB from 140 to 180; (b) to
construct, with the financial support of African Development Bank (AfDB),
a junior secondary teacher training college with an annual output of 150
diplomates in secondary education; and (c) to develop training programs
for practical subjects teachers (a course for teachers of woodwork and
technical drawing was initiated with 16 students at Botswana Polytechnic
in 1980). Starting in 1984, the UCB degree level teacher training course
will be restructured into a four-year degree course for a B.A. or B.Sc.
followed by a 1-year post-graduate course in education. This is unlikely
to resolve the problem in the medium term since the graduates, especially
those in mathematics and sciences are most likely to take advantage of
other employment opportunities and not opt for a teacher training course.
2.13    Of particular concern and interest is the Government-s proposal to
increase significantly its supporl to the CJSS which has in the past been
required not only to fund a considerable portion of capital expenditures,
but also to recruit and pay the teachers, and to meet from student fees



-7-
the costs of consumable materials. While financial constraints will
preempt the Government in the short term from providing parity of treat-
ment for the CJSS, the Government has taken the following measures to
improve the financial base, and the quality of education in these schools:
(a) in 1980, Government introduced a scheme to pay the salaries of 25
expatriate teachers who will be assigned to CJSS (the number of CJSS
teachers will rise to 200 by 1985); (b) from 1980-81 a per capita
allowance of P 20 p.a. will be paid to CJSS to help meet the cost of
textbooks and consumable materials; (c) the Form 5 leavers community
service project will also service the CJSS; and (d) the MOE will provide
professional services (school inspection, guidance, in-service training
courses) and technical assistance (school accounts, auditing) to the CJSS.
2.14    The above mentioned goals constitute the main thrust of the
Government s sector development objectives through 1985. Developments in
other education and training sub-sectors will be modest in scope, and are
described in Annex 2.
2.15     University Education.  It is expected that during the NDPV
period, the UCB will achieve full university status. The early 1980s will
be a period of consolidation with enrollment growth at about 7% p.a.,
compared with about 18% p.a. in the recent past. Botswana seeks a greater
degree of self-sufficiency in university level education which however,
has to be weighed against factors such as the country's small population,
the varied manpower needs, including a review to determine the most
economic and efficient method to provide for such needs.
2.16      The UCB plans include: (a) the introduction of a new degree
level program in Business Administration and Commerce, Demography and
Environmental Science, and a diploma and a certificate program in
Librarianship and Adult Education; (b) the introduction of a program for
teacher training tutors for Primary Teacher Training Colleges and primary
school head-teachers and inspectors; (c) the above mentioned replacement
of the concurrent system of senior secondary teacher training by a year of
post-graduate study; (d) the phasing out of the present diploma in secon-
dary education starting in 1984, the year in which it is anticipated that
the secondary teacher training college will accept its first stu-
dent-trainees (para. 2.12); and (e) the establishment of courses in
Agriculture and Geology.
2.17      The Institute of Adult Education will place emphasis on the
following activities: (a) the new two-year diploma in Adult Education at
the University; (b) the Cultural Development Project which aims to stimu-
late interest and production in the performing arts; (c) the in-service
education for people currently employed; and (d) the development of links
between adult education and production activities.
2.18      Technical and Vocational Training.  Technical and vocational
training is largely the direct responsibility of the MOE. The Botswana
Polytechnic offers craft and technical courses in cooperation with



-8-
industry; as well as technician certificate courses in automobile
mechanics, civil and electrical engineering, electronics; and technician
diploma courses. During the NDVP period, additional expatriate staff will
be employed, and a staff development program will seek to identify a local
counterpart for each expatriate appointment.  An Automotive Trades Train-
ing School will be established in Gaborone to meet the needs for motor
mechanics both in the Central Transport Organization and in the private
sector.  The role of the Brigades, (Annex 2, para. 14) which also carry
out technical and vocational training, and contributes to the development
of rural areas is currently under review. It is expected that three
principal changes will take place following completion of the review: (a)
many training Brigades will be taken over by Government and turned into
rural trade schools; (b) remaining training Brigades will be more
generously subsidized by Government to allow an improved standard of
training; and (c) production and development Brigades will remain
autonomous, though with assistance from various Minnistries. Also, on the
basis of experience, there will be a shift in the emphasis of Brigades
agricultural activities from training and production to extension and
research.
2.19      Non-Formal Education.  The Department of Non-Formal Education
stresses the needs of the rural community, and particularly of those who
have been largely deprived of other forms of education. The program
envisaged consists of: (a) a national literacy campaign with an initial
intake of 1,500; thereafter, it is anticipated that 15,000 participants
will be enrolled annually; (b) district and village oriented programs
meeting specific needs of the comaunities being served including aspects
of skill training not covered by other extension agencies; and (c) learn-
ing opportunities for women by providing training for teachers of women
organizations and making available program material.
2.20      Education Finance.  The financing of education and training is
largely the responsibility of the Central Government. In 1976/77 with the
introduction of the Unified Teaching Service the salary payments of all
primary school teachers were transferred from the district councils to the
MOE. Only supporting services are provided by the district councils.
Primary education as of 1980 is free. At the secondary level fees vary
according to the type of school (public versus private) and range from P
120 to P 220 p.a. In 1979/80 recurrent costs per student were P 123 for
primary students, P 560 for junior secondary day students and P 700 for
senior secondary day students; an additional P 60 is provided for boarding
students at the secondary level. University education is estimated to
cost about P 5,400 per student and the Polytechnic P 2,300. The student
unit costs in Botswana are relatively high in comparison to those in
neighboring countries. For comparison, in 1979/80 expenditures were:



-9-
Malawi                   Lesotho                 Zambia
(in US$, 1979/80)
Primary                 16                         28                     71
Secondary              262                        195                    381
University           4,100                      3,340                  3 750
The unit costs in Botswana however reflect in particular higher wage rates
and a more generous supply of student and teacher requisites.
2.21      In FY 1979/80 recurrent expenditures on education and training
administered by the MOE accounted for about 20% of total estimated Govern-
ment recurrent expenditures. Recurrent expenditures on education and
training administered by other Ministries accounted for another 3%. Capi-
tal expenditures on education administered by the MOE accounted for 8% of
the total Government capital expenditures and capital expenditures on
education administered by other Ministries, for an additional 7%. In
1979/80 recurrent expenditures for the various levels were distributed as
follows:
Primary Education            48%
Secondary Education          28%
Technical Education           4%
Higher Education             15%
Non-Formal Education          1%
Curriculum Development
and Administration         4%
100%
2.22      The NDPV projections in constant 1979/80 prices indicate that
MOE-s recurrent expenditures on education will grow steadily from an
estimated P 26.0 million in 1979/80 to P 42 million in 1984/85. The
development expenditures of the MOE and the Ministry of Local Government
and Lands (MLGL) (responsible for the primary school construction program)
will grow from P14 million in 1979/80 to a peak of 21 million in 1981/82
and decline somewhat thereafter, The share of education expenditures as a
percentage of Government expenditures however is expected to remain at
around 20%. Given the budget ceilings imposed on the MOE and proposed
projected enrollments particularly at lower secondary level, the Govern-
ment will have to exercise some restraint. In particular, the Government
is carefully studying: (a) the time frame in which they wish to provide
universal basic education of nine years, (b) the policy on localization
of teachers (at the present time a large number are provided on a grant
basis); (c) the possibility of increasing the pupil/teacher ratio at all
levels; (d) the extent of available community resources in promoting
self-help schemes for the provision of junior secondary education; and (e)
the possibility of limiting the growth of university enrollment strictly
to manpower needs.



-10-
2.23      Total education expenditures of the MOE (recurrent and capital),
as a percentage of total Government expenditures have ranged from about
16% in 1976/77 to 19% during 1979/80 and total public expenditures on
education and training as a percentage of GDP have moved from 5.2% in
1976/77 to an estimated 6.3% in 1979/80 (Annex 1, T-3).  Education in the
previous Plan was treated generously. But within the NDPV period recur-
rent expenditures are projected to grow in real terms at about 10% p.a..
This is a high growth rate but, nevertheless lower than the 15% p.a.
growth rate which prevailed during the period of the previous 1976-81
National Development Plan. Development expenditures will be constrained
by the country-s limited capacity to implement new projects. Given these
circumstances, the Government expects to operate within a clearly defined
set of educational priorities and expects to closely monitor the costs per
student for education.
Role of the Bank in Botswana Education Development
2.24    Past Experience.  The Bank, which is becoming a major source of
external capital financing for education in Botswana, has assisted in the
development of the education and training sector since 1976, and has
contributed to the financing of two previous education projects. As a
result of these projects and sector work, the Bank has established a
fairly comprehensive knowledge of the functioning and organization of the
education sector and a good dialogue with the education authorities.
2.25    The First Bank-assisted Education Project Loan 1274-BT/1275-T-BT,
approved in May 1976 in the amount of US$10.5 million, supported the first
phase of the Government-s education investment program designed to help
meet the manpower requirements of the economy. The objectives of the
project were (a) to expand secondary education and teacher training; (b)
expand adult education programs for out-of-school youth and adults; and
(c) provide a multi-purpose rural education center to serve the needs of
the Western Kalahari Region. Implementation of the project is basically
satisfactory with initial delays being overcome particulary in regard to
the Kalahari multi-purpose education center} which has been delayed due
to, inter alia, the remote location which has also contributed to a cost
overrun in the project of about 28% in terms of US dollars. The Govern-
ment is providing additional funds as needed and the Project is expected
to be fully completed by the original March 31, 1982 Closing Date.
2.26      The Second Bank-assisted Education Project, Loan 1828-BT,
approved in April, 1980 in the amount of US$10.0 million and which became
effective in June 1980, supports the Government's Five Year Development
Plan by providing assistance for: (a) expansion of and the construction
of new community junior secondary schools; (b) increasing rural vocational
training through support to the Brigades; and (c) training for civil
servants and public sector personnel. Project Implementation is basically
proceeding satisfactorily.



-11-
2.27      Lessons Learned.  Although not yet completed, several important
lessons have been learned from the implementation of the First Education
ProJeC&t. On the physical implementation side, initial delays resulted
from changes in key staff and an understaffed Project Implementation Unit
(PIU).  The Ministry of Works and Communications (MOWC) was unable to
prov7idu the architectural/engiaeering services as planned due to an unan-
ticipated workload and staff constraints. The lack of periodic reports to
provide an overall view of the implementation progress to the PIU and the
Government further contributed to disbursement delays. On the educational
side, a review of the Brigades program indicated a need to strengthen the
evaluation mechanism.
2.28      These lessons were applied to the design of the Second Education
Project and provision was made for the adequate staffing of the PIU and
measures taken to strengthen the evaluation capacity of the Brigades.
Also provisions were included in the project for architectural/engineering
services by locally established consulting firms. In addition, although
no formal co-financing arrangements were made, the project was developed
in close collaboration with on going programs financed by donor agencies
such as ODA, the European Economic Community (EEC), DANIDA, the Canadian
International Development Agency (CIDA), USAID, and UNDP (ILO). Several
of these organizations are providing, both technical assistance and
investment funds on a grant basis to the education sector thus complement-
ing the Bank-assisted Education Projects. The proposed Third Education
Project incorporates all of these lessons in its design and includes
technical assistance funds to (a) ensure the continuous services of a
project director; and (b) to strengthen the auditing capability of the
MLGL and District Councils (technical assistance specialists would also
train local counterparts). Coordination of supporting programs financed
by numerous donor agencies was also taken into consideration.
Lending Strategy in the Education Sector.
2.29      The Government's policy and priorities for education development
are sound and meet Bank criteria for assistance to the sector (para.
2.03). In the area of primary education, the needs will be partially
addressed in this proposed project. However, in order to carry out the
Government's long-term strategy of developing a nine-year universal basic
education, more external assistance will likely be required.  Secondary
education is being addressed in both the First and Second Education
Projects and further expansion will be necessary as the education base
broadens and sufficient trained teachers become available.



-12-
III. THE PROJECT
Objectives
3.01    The proposed project would assist the Government in carrying out
its education policy as set forth in its NDPV (paras. 2.03-2.06) which
establishes the expansion and improvement of primary education as its
first priority in the education sector. Specifically, the project would
include provisions for: (a) primary school classroom facilities for about
20,000 student places including furniturey equipment and textbooks; and
(b) a new primary teacher training college for a total of 300 student
places. About 14 man-years of technical assistance is also included for
project administration.
Project Components
3.02    Primary School Classroom Facilities.  To provide appropriate
classroom facilities to all children in the 6-12 age group, about 3,360
classrooms and related facilities would be required by 1985. Due to
financial and physical implementation constraints, the Government has
established as a target, that by the end of the NDPV period, each of its
nine districts would have to meet 80% of its assessed classroom needs as
follows:
Existing         Required         Construction          Total
District          (1980)           (1985)           (1980-1985)           1985
North East          199              370                  100              299
Central           1,134            2,440                 820             1,954
Kgatleng            202              400                  120              322
Kweneng             410              920                  330              740
Southern            405            1,L30                 500               905
South East          111              220                   70              181
Kgalagadi           120              240                   70              190
Ghanzi               65              130                   40              105
North West          192              520                  220              412
TOTAL             2,838            6,370               2,270             5,108
Source: MOE - Primary school construction needs.
3.03    The proposed project would include provisions for the construc-
tion, furnishing and equipping of about 500 classrooms and related



-~ 1 3-
facilities which include offices, storerooms, cooking and ablution areas,
and staff housing. These facilities included in the proposed project
would represent only about 22% of the 1985 Government target. Double
shifting, open air classes and overcrowding are likely to continue
throughout this decade.
3.04    Guidelines have been established for primary school development
(Annex 3) setting forth the criteria for selecting existing schools to be
expanded, location of new schools, and procedures for assisting unaided
primary schools. These guidelines would insure equity in the distribution
of location of the proposed classroom facilities. The District Councils
are required to strictly adhere to the guidelines which have been reviewed
by Bank staff. Statistics of primary school age population and enrollment
are available for each District, which, together with detailed local
knowledge of primary school needs, enable the Councils to prepare plans in
conformity with Government's guidelines. The Government has given
assurances that (a) the agreed guidelines would be used for selecting the
location of primary schools to be assisted under the project (para.
7.Ola); and (b) the MLGL would provide to the Bank via the PIU (i) before
the beginning of each of the Government's Fiscal Year, a work plan and
budget satisfactory to the Bank for the construction of the primary school
facilities (including type of facilities to be constructed); and (ii)
submit each year thereafter, an annual report indicating actual work
completed as compared with the plan (para. 7.Olb).
3.05    Urban areas sited along the "line of rail" in Botswana are
reasonably well provided with primary schools, but rural areas are less
well off. The Government's priority for primary school development in
rural areas introduces a problem not common in urban areas, viz, a criti-
cal shortage of houses for teachers. Without provision of staff houses in
the rural areas, it is unlikely that teachers for rural areas could be
recruited and maintained in the schools. Consequently, the proposed
project includes a modest staff housing unit for every two classrooms.
3.06    The Swedish International Development Agency (SIDA) has assisted
Botswana in the education sector since 1974 and has been the main source
of funding for the expansion and maintenance of facilities for the primary
school sub-sector. A continuation of this aid is expected but on a more
limited scale. Work financed by SIDA will continue under the direction of
the MLGL and will be closely coordinated with that financed under this
proposed project. The maintenance of facilities has been the subject of a
SIDA financed study and special recommendations have been made to improve
procedures. These recommendations include, inter alia, a further study
(by a council architect provided by SIDA) of future maintenance require-
ments, including detailed estimates of the financial implications which
would allow the MLGL to include a separate, realistic maintenance estimate
in its annual budget. Guidelines would then be formulated on the
strengthening of the maintenance capacity of each district including the
possibility of introducing a standardized five year plan. SIDA is also
expected to finance and recruit maintenance-oriented professionals for the



--14-
district councils. Maintenance of the proposed PTTC would be the respon-
sibility of the MOWC which has arn established 3-year maintenance program
for all Government facilities with health and educational facilities
receiving first priority. Funding for such maintenance represents about
1.5% of the replacement value of the buildings which is satisfactory.
3.07    Primary School Textbooks.  In support of the new primary school
curriculum being developed by the MOE with assistance from USAID, inter
alios, the project would include funds to assist in the financing of an
initial supply of about 200,000 textbooks and teachers' guides, Textbooks
included would be those as designed and tested by the curriculum unit and
the in-service project unit of the MOE for standards 1 and 2 in Setswana,
mathematics, English, science and social studies and including teachers
guides. Also included for support in the proposed project would be text-
books presently in use as selected by the MOE with procurement through
locally established book firms. Distribution would be by the MLGL using
established channels through the District Councils which are satisfactory.
3.08    Primary Teacher Training College (PTTC).  The proposed project
would include provisions for a new primary teacher training college (PTTC)
located in Tlokweng, a rural area although near Gaborone. To meet the
need for trained teachers to 1990 (para. 2.06) the proposed PTTC would
provide for 300 student places. The total output of trained teachers
would thus be from 450 to 600 p.a., this number would be consistent with
the Government-s enrollment projections in primary schools which takes
into account a projected population growth rate of 3.1% p.a. and a gradual
replacement of unqualified teachers who, in 1980 were 36% of the total
stock of 5,280 teachers. The PTTC would be an integral part of a com-
prehensive plan and would incorporate as part of its educational objec-
tives, the efforts of various departmaents of the UCB including the Depart-
ment of Primary Education, the Primary School Laboratory, special educa-
tion (for slow learners, students with learning disabilities and the
physically handicapped). It would also incorporate an in-service training
center for the upgrading of both trained and untrained primary school
teachers. The site selected for the PTTC is close to the UCB and adjacent
to an 11 classroom primary school which would be used for testing of
students and training of teachers in cooperation with the Department of
primary education at the UCB, which is being assisted by a USAID grant for
a primary education improvement project (para. 2.06). Qualitative
improvements in curriculum development and instructional programs
developed in conjunction with the UCB would be incorporated into the
training program curricula of the other three PTTCs.  Tutors for the
proposed fourth PTTC will be trained at the UCB through both in-service
and pre-service teacher training courses.
3.09    Technical Assistance.  To enable the PIU  which is administrating
the implementation of the First and Second Education Projects, to continue
operations until completion of the proposed Third Education Project, five
man-years of technical assistance for the provision of the project direc-
tor (architect) are included in the Project (para. 5.02).



-15-
3.10    To strengthen the District Councils and the MLGL in cost control,
accountancy and associated bookkeeping for the proposed project, nine
man-years of technical assistance for three specialists in accounting are
included in the project. The Government would establish these three posts
and local counterparts would assigned to each specialist who would be
trained to carry on the work of the specialists after completion of their
contracts (para. 5.04). As a condition of disbursement against the
primary school classroom component, these specialists and their local
counterparts would be employed (para. 7.02).
3.11    The qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employ-
ment of the specialists financed under this proposed project would be
satisfactory to the Bank.
Monitoring and Evaluation
3.12    The Planning Unit of the MOE, in cooperation with the Central
Statistics Unit, and as agreed in the Second Education Project is cur-
rently carrying out tracer studies for primary school leavers. The Bank
would be provided for review, as appropriate, the results of these
studies.
3.13    The Government has given assurances that it would prepare and
furnish to the Bank a completion report on the execution and initial
operations of the proposed project; its costs and the benefits derived;
the performance by the Government and the Bank of their respective obliga-
tions under the Loan Agreement and significant lessons learned during
project implementation. This report would be prepared by the PIU, MLGL
and the MOE in cooperation with other relevant agencies or departments by
not later than five months after the Loan Closing Date (para. 7.01 (c)).
Female Participation in the Education System
3.14    In the formal education system in 1980 female participation was
as follows: at the primary level (standards 1-7), females represented
about 55% of total enrollment, at the secondary level (Form I-V) 56% and
at the university level 33%. The proposed project is specifically provid-
ing an expansion and upgrading of primary schools where the females out-
number males by a significant margin (Annex 1, C-3). Higher female par-
ticipation rates in primary and secondary school are attributed to the
a           custom of young males accompanying and herding cattle during the school
hours.



-16-
Participation of Donor Agencies in. the Education Sector
3.15    Although no formal co-financing arrangements are contemplated,
numerous donor agencies are assisting the education sector and the
proposed project is designed to complement and reinforce those programs
(paras. 2.06 and 2.28).
3.16    Externally financed capital assistance to the education sector is
provided by many donors: The Federal Republic of Germany supports voca-
tional/technical education; SIDA has committed funds for construction,
furniture, equipment, and textbooks in primary education (inter alia);
USAID for improving the organization and administration of primary educa-
tion, updating of PTTC curricula and teaching methodology and evaluation,
for agricultural education through the expansion of building and classroom
facilities; and the EEC and CIDA are supporting university level educa-
tion. In terms of technical assistance personnel, there have been large
numbers of personnel provided by DANIDA, NORAD, ODA, USAID the Netherlands
Organization for International Development Cooperation and the Federal
Republic of Germany. The United Kingdom remains the largest single donor
of technical assistance with about 1,000 persons on assignment and
provides the bulk of administrative and technical manpower in such key
sectors as economic infrastructure, natural resources exploration,
agriculture, and general economic planning. About 120 of these
specialists are in the education sector and this number is expected to
rise to 160 in 1982 reflecting the high priority placed by the UK on the
education sector in Botswana.



-17-
IV. PROJECT COST AND FINANCIAL PLAN
Project Cost
4.01    The total cost of the project is estimated at US$30.0 million
equivalent, including custom duties and taxes estimated at US$0.8 million
equivalent. The estimated costs and foreign-exchange components by
category and by project item are given in Annex 1, T-5 and T-6, respec-
tively, and are summarized as follows:
% of
PULA (Million)          US$ (Million) _.  Base
Item                 Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign Total  Cost
1. Civil works, furniture,
equipment and textbooks
a)  Primary Education        4.17    8.08   12.25   5.33   10.35  15.68    74
b) Primary Teacher
Training              1.12    2.22    3.34   1.45    2.83   4.28    20
Sub-Total (1)         5.29   10.30   15.59   6.78   13.18  19.96    94
2. Technical Assistance         0.05    0.43    0.48   0.06    0.55   0.61          3
3. Professional Services        0.10    0.40    0.50   0.13    0.51   0.64          3
Base Cost (1-3)
(Oct. 1981)               5.44   11.13   16.57   6.97   14.24  21.21   100
4. Contingencies
a) Physical (9%)             0.53    0.96    1.49   0.68    1.22    1.90
b) Price increase (32%)    1.82    3.56    5.38   2.35    4.54    6.89
Sub-total (4)             2.35    4.52    6.87   3.03    5.76    8.79
Total Project Cost (1-4)   7.79   15.65   23.44  10.00   20.00   30.00
of which taxes           (0.62)   -       (0.62) (0.80)   -         (0.80)



-18-
4.02    Cost estimates for civil works, furniture and equipment were
derived from a review by Bank staff of data provided by: (a) the MOWC,
from its wide range of activities in the building sector; (b) the PIU
based on its experience in implementing the First and Second Education
Projects and on recently awarded contracts; and (c) the MLGL based on its
extensive experience in coordinating the implementation of primary class-
room facilities in the nine districts to be involved in the proposed
project. The schedules of accommodations on which the cost estimates are
based are functional, and the furniture, equipment, and textbooks would be
of a type pertinent to the country for achieving the proposed project's
educational objectives. The equipment and textbooks list for the primary
schools has been reviewed and found satisfactory by Bank Group staff.
4.03    The average unit base cost (October 1981 prices) of construction
for the primary-school classroom facilities is US$200/m2 equivalent. The
cost of the primary-school classrooms varies according to their locations
with a cost ranging from about US$159/m2 equivalent along the "line of
rail" to about US$278/m2 equivalent in the most remote rural areas. These
costs compare with the average cost per square meter in other eastern
African countries as follows: Lesotho (1981), $214; Swaziland (1979),
$160; Kenya (1978), $190; and Mauritius (1978), $273. The classroom
facilities are austere in design and would make maximum use of local
materials and simple building techniques. The cost estimates for text-
books were prepared in conjunction with the MOE and the Government Print-
ing Agency.
4.04    The technical-assistance component (para. 3.09-3.11), consisting
of about 168 man-months (14 man-years) of specialists' services, is
estimated at an average cost of US$3,600 per man-month. This cost
includes salary and allowances. Based on past and ongoing experience,
these expatriate specialists are expected to be recruited either locally
or through bi-lateral donor agencies at less than the prevailing interna-
tional cost. In accordance with Government policy, housing would be
provided to the specialists at a very nominal cost.
4.05    Professional services (para. 5.06), equivalent to about 100
man-months of architectural/engineering services, is estimated at an
average rate of US$6,400 per man-month.  This includes salary, overhead,
and fees.
4.06    Custom Duties and Taxes.  All items specifically imported for the
proposed project would be exempt from direct customs duties and taxes,
in line with the practice of the Government to grant customs duties and
tax exemption to imports for educational purposes. Some of the materials
to be used in the construction of the proposed institutions would be
acquired on the open market and would be subject to taxes as, similarly,
some professional services would be. Of the estimated costs for civil
works and professional services, about US$0.80 million equivalent would
represent taxes.



-19-
4.07    Contin.enc' A'Iowances.  For physical contingencies, 10% has been
added - the bast, costs of civil works and professional services and 5% to
t,,e ba!; costs of furniture, equipment and textbooks.  Price increases,
fromn t,he tase cost dade (October 1981), have been applied in accordance
W tLi tte 'raplementation schedule (Annex 1, T-7) at the following annual
r a ts:
1981        1982         1983-87
Foreign/Local        12.0%        11.0%         10.0%
Because of Botswana-s strong economic ties with the RSA (in particular
most imports originate in the RSA) and the fact that inflation rates have
been very similar in both countries, foreign price increases have been
projected at the same level as local price increases.
4.08    Foreign-Exchange Component.  The foreign-exchange component has
been calculated as follows: (a) civil works, 63%; (b) furniture and
professional services, 80%; and (c) equipment, textbooks, and technical
assistance, 90%. Including contingencies, the foreign-exchange component
is estimated at US$20.0 million equivalent or 67% of the total project
cost net of taxes.
Financial Plan
4.09    The total project cost of US$30.0 million equivalent would be
financed with an IBRD loan of US$20.0 million equivalent which would cover
the foreign-exchange costs as follows:
US$ Million Equivalent
Government      IBRD         TOTAL
1.  Civil works                    6.33         10.50         16.83
2.  Furniture                      0.48          1.93          2.41
3.  Equipment and Textbooks        0.07          0.65          0.72
4.  Technical assistance           0.06          0.55          0.61
5.  Professional services          0.13          0.51          0.64
6.  Unallocated                    2.93          5.86          8.79
Total                         10.00         20.00         30.00
of which taxes                (0-80)          -           (0.80)
4.10    The maximum Government capital contribution to the project in any
single year is not expected to exceed US$2.9 million equivalent (P 2.3



-20-
million)(3) and would occur in FY1984/85. Based on a projection contained
in the NDPV, of the funds likely to be available to the MOE for capital
expenditures in that year, the expenditure on the proposed project would
be about 8.5% of the MOE's capital budget in that year. The recurrent
expenditures generated by the project are estimated to amount to about
Pula 2.2 million (US$ 2.8 million) by FY1986/87, when the project would be
in full operation; this amount represents about 5% of the MOE's estimated
recurrent budget in that year.
V. IMPLEMENTATION, PROCUREMENT, DISBURSEMENT, AND AUDITING
Implementation
5.01    The project would be implemented over a period of about five
years, including six months for completion of payments and withdrawals
(Annex 1, T-7). The project is expected to be completed by September 30,
1986, with a proposed Closing Date of March 31, 1987. The implementation
schedule is based on, inter alia, experience derived from the First and
Second Education Projects in Botswana.
5.02    Administration.  The PIU established in the MOE, for implementa-
tion of the First and Second Bank-assisted Education Projects, would be
responsible for the administrative and financial control of the proposed
project, including liaison with the Bank. This Unit would also be respon-
sible for coordination with the various Ministries and Departments
involved in the project including the MLGL. Any appointments to the
positions of project director, architect, and procurement manager would be
satisfactory to the Bank. DANIDA is presently providing the services of
the project director. However, DANIDAfs obligation to provide this
specialist is expected to terminate about April 1982 therefore about five
man-years of technical assistance are included in the project for the
continuation of the specialists- services for this post (paras. 3.09 and
3.11). Funds for meeting incremental operating costs are not required for
this proposed project since such costs are being financed under the Second
Education Project up to June 30, 1985. After that date, incremental
operating cost of the PIU will be borne by the Government.  To permit the
PIU to adequately review and monitor the implementation of the project
components dealing with the primary classroom facilities component, the
MLGL would closely liaise and coordinate activities with the PIU. The PIU
is also administrating the MOE development programs including expansion of
the secondary school system financed by the United Nations High Commission
for Refugees and is expected to administer the implementation of the
Secondary Teacher Training College to be financed by the AfDB.
3. 1980/81 prices.



-21-
5.03    The MLGL (Annex 1, C-4) would have the overall responsibility for
the administration of the construction of primary school facilities. The
MLGL would however delegate the responsibility for detailed implementation
to the country-s nine District Councils. Administrative arrangements and
procedures to carry out this work are well established and have been in
use for the implementation of a similar SIDA program since about 1974.
Based upon an agreed procedure, each Council submits to the MLGL an annual
development plan for primary schools within its District. The plan
specifies the schools to be constructed, expanded or improved and gives
the location of each site where the facilities are proposed.   Included in
the plan are the cost estimates for the work. After review and approval
by the MLGL, financial allocations are made to the Districts. The Dis-
tricts then invite bids for construction work following strict Government
procurement procedures.(4) Contracts are awarded by the Districts who are
also responsible for the supervision of construction work through the
District Councils Works Department and if necessary with assistance from
the MLGL and MOWC. To obtain the advantage of bulk purchasing, furniture,
equipment and some textbooks would be centrally procured. Budgetary
allocations for primary school construction are channeled from the Minis-
try of Finance and Development to the MLGL and hence to the district
Councils. The Councils are accountable to the MLGL which has an audit
department fully responsible for controlling the use of the funds.
5.04    At both the MLGL and in the Districts, there is a shortage of
qualified staff able to fully carry out the necessary financial management
of the primary school construction component. Consequently, the project
includes nine man-years of technical assistance for three specialists to
assist in the review of procedures and maintainance of proper accounts.
Each specialist would be assigned work in three Districts with one
specialist serving as team leader. The specialists would train local
counterparts who would assume the duties of the specialists upon comple-
tion of their contracts (paras. 3.10 and 3.11). In addition, to assist in
the strengthening of cost control and implementation of the primary school
program, the MLGL is increasing the number of building supervisors by
three for a total of 15.
5.05    Reporting and Evaluation.  Following procedures established under
the Second Education Project, semi-annual reports on implementation
progress would be submitted to the Bank for review within two months after
the periods ending in March 31 and September 30. The MLGL and MOE would
submit their reports to the Bank through the PIU. Not later than five
months after the Project Closing Date, the PIU, with assistance from MOE
and MLGL, would provide to the Bank a report evaluating the execution,
initial operations, costs and benefits of the proposed project and the
4. Scandardized tender documents developed by the MOWC are used. Invita-
tions to bid are advertised and a minimum of three quotations are
required.



-22-
performance of the Government and the Bank including lessons learned
during project implementation (para. 3.13).
5.06    Professional Services (Architectural/Engineering).  The architec-
tural and engineering services required for the project are limited, since
existing standardized designs for the primary classrooms and ancilliary
lacilities have already been widely used in Botswana and are satisfactory.
The PTTC would require a new design due to its different educational
aspects. However, certain elements in particular the staff housing.
facilities would be based on standardized designs recently developed by
.MOWC. Based on past experience and in anticipation of an increased
workload of the MOWC, locally established consultants who have undertaken
similar assignments and have a good working relationship with the borrower
have been employed for the architectural/engineering work, including
tender analysis and supervision of construction for the college. Funds
are included in the proposed project for these services. These consult-
ants have been selected and commissioned on terms and conditions satisfac-
tory to the Bank and would be under the technical direction of the PIU.
5.07    Site Selection.  A satisfactory site for the new PTTC has been
selected. Utility services to the site boundary of the PTTC would be
provided by the Government. Sites for primary classrooms would be
selected by Districts Councils following agreed guidelines (para. 3.04).
Procurement
5.08    Contracts for civil works, furniture, and equipment would be
awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding (ICB) in accord-
ance with the Bank Group-s guidelines for procurement (totalling about
US$15.7 million equivalent, including contingencies). Exempted from ICB
would be: (a) civil works contracts for primary school facilities
estimated to cost less than US$250,000 equivalent each (estimated at
US$11.0 million equivalent including contingencies); (b) furniture and
equipment contracts each costing less than US$50,000 equivalent (estimated
at US$1.2 million equivalent including contingencies); and (c) textbooks
contracts which would be directly negotiated with the TAPU, the Government
Printing Department and local firms presently providing the books
(estimated at US$0.5 million). Due to the small size and remote and
scattered locations, construction of the primary school facilities would
be awarded by competitive bidding advertised locally and in accordance
with procedures satisfactory to the Bank. It is expected that the primary
school facilities will be constructed by the numerous small rural contrac-
tors who are registered with the MOWC and/or the District Councils.
However, to the extent practicable and to encourage competition, the civil
works would be grouped so that contractors could bid simultaneously for
construction of one or more schools on different sites. Contracts under
US$50,000 each for furniture ancd equipment would also be tendered by
competitive bidding advertised locally and in accordance with local proce-
dures satisfactory to the Bank.



-23-
5.09    When ICB is used, domestic manufacturers of furniture and equip-
ment would be allowed a preference of 15% or the existing applicable rate
of import duties, whichever is lower, over the c.i.f. price of competing
foreign suppliers.
5.10    Sketch designs, draft tender documents and master lists of furni-
ture, equipment and textbooks indicating proposed grouping and cost
estimates would be reviewed by the Bank. Items would be grouped to the
extent practicable to encourage competitive bidding and permit bulk
procurement. Review of tender evaluation documents prior to award would
be required for textbook contracts and contracts above US$250,000 equiv-
alent for civil works and US$50,000 equivalent for furniture and equipment.
Disbursement
5.11    Disbursements (Annex 1, T-8) would be on the basis of:  (a) 63% of
expenditures for civil works; (b) 100% of foreign expenditures for
directly imported furniture, equipment and textbooks; (c) 90% of local
expenditures for locally manufactured furniture, equipment and textbooks;
(d) 90% of expenditures for technical assistance; and (e) 80% of expendi-
tures for imported but locally procured furniture, equipment, textbooks
and professional services. All disbursements would be fully documented.
5.12    Retroactive financing not-exceeding US$150,000 equivalent for
approved expenditures incurred after November 1, 1981 and prior to Loan
signing is recommended for architectural services and civil works for the
PTTC (para. 7.03).
Auditing
5.13    Auditing would be required on an annual basis for all expenditures
financed under this project. The accounts pertaining to primary school
expansions under the MLGL and nine Districts would be prepared with the
assistance of the three specialists in accounting provided for under the
proposed project (paras. 3.10 and 5.04). With respect to the primary
school componentlunaudited statements would be submitted to the Bank not
later than six months after the end of each year, followed with audited
statements within twelve months after the year ended March 1983, within
nine months after the year ended March 1984 and within six months after
subsequent years. Accounts pertaining to the remainder of the project
would be prepared by the PIU and audit reports would be submitted to the
Bank within six months following the end of each of the Borrower-s fiscal
year. Auditors would be acceptable to the Bank, applying satisfactory
auditing procedures (para. 7.01 (d)).



-24-
VI. BENEFITS AND RISKS
6.01    The proposed project would support the Government's priority for
education as set forth in the Fifth National Development Plan by expanding
educational opportunities and by improving the quality of primary educa-
tion particularly in rural areas (para. 2.03).
6.02    No major risks are foreseen.  However, in regard to the primary
school construction component, technical assistance is included in the
proposed project for the MLGL and the country's nine Districts for
strengthening of accounting procedures. Continuity in the maintenance of
accounting methods would be ensured by the attachment of counterparts to
the specialists for "on-the-job" training and who would be retained by
the MLGL and Districts (para. 5.04). A minor element of doubt concerns
the implementation potential of two or three of the country's nine dis-
tricts to construct their share of primary schools in the given time
schedule.   This doubt arises from the Report of the Presidential Commis-
sion on Local Government Structure, 1979 which indicates that some dis-
tricts are less adept than others in implementing development projects.
SIDA is expected to assist in the strengthening of the districts in this
respect and this would be monitored closely during the course of project
supervision.
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01    During negotiations, the Government provided assurances that:
(a) The agreed guidelines would be used for the location of
primary schools to be assisted under this project (para. 3.04);
(b) The MLGL would provide to the Bank via the PIU (i) before
the beginning of each of the Government's Fiscal Year, a
work plan and budget satisfactory to the Bank for the
construction of the primary school facilities (including
type of facilities to be constructed); and (ii) submit each
year thereafter, an annual report indicating actual work
completed as compared with the plan (para. 3.04);
(c)  A completion report on the project would be furnished to the
Bank within five months after the Loan Closing Date
(para. 3.13)1 and
(d) The accounts would be audited applying satisfactory auditing
procedures (para. 5.13).



-25-
7.02      As a condition of disbursement against the primary classroom
component, the three specialists in accounting and their local counter-
parts would be employed (para. 3.10).
7.03    Retroactive financing not exceeding US$150,000 equivalent is
recommended for architectural services and civil works for the primary
teacher training college (para. 5.12).
7.04      Subject to the conditions above, the proposed project con-
stitutes a suitable basis for a Bank loan of US$20.0 million equivalent to
the Republic of Botswana on standard IBRD terms.



SEPTEMBER 30, 1981
:CENTRAL::                                                        III
*  .     .           I ~~~GOVT.±.
*    SNT!I             tEt   04 I                            I '.I                 IPS. IRECURRENTI                         ISEC.I
: CAPITA:               IEDU.  AS: EDUCATION         ITER-I PRI. :CDNPLE-  : STU- :UNIT CDSTIPROGRESS-I  SEC. 'STU-  :INIHIER'
*   IAT   I             11 TTL. I RECURRENT    161?           IENROLLITION        IDENTSIPRIM. ED,IION RATE IEN*OLL:IDENTB:IENfIOILLI
:MIARKETI  . 01N9   ICENTRALIEXP ALLOCATED:   SATE IRATID IRATE FURIPER   :AS 16 ONP/IFRDM PRO. IRATIO IPER   :RATIO I
POP.  IPRORCESI  DEVOSTEDI  GOVT. I         TO:       101X OP   I NET   IPRI.SCH.ITEACHI  CAPITA   ITO SEC.   INET   ITEACH- 5*0381
YRIMILLO.I  1US$): TD EUJ.I  EXt.   1911I. SEC. 110. IADULTSII  1%)  ICYCLEO%)IER    I                            161      1  %    :ER    I Il
(10    1   2) 1   31    1   41   I           51       :   6)     (7)   I(5)    1  91  1   1001    1 111                 (021  :(13)  :1041
AUS0TRIA         74    7.5H 7,52011    5.38        9.961   24T   51Y  15Y   99            9$        932       26       00.721       992       512      198c   16,85?
26ANA11A         78  23.0   8,670        8.0        4.3K    25    39    23       99,    000        000        20       17,6       000         92       08      22,00
GERMANY1 F.,REP, 78  60.3 00,300         4.SB4     8. 41,......                  99      ...      000                             000         94       225    02.00?
JAFPAN           71 104,911 7,700H1   4.311W    ,,..        4OUTY 370?  lOU?IJ   99      990        99S       20.5                 99B1       9501     208    24.69Y
NE9THERLANDS6   78   03.9   9,200        8.3      13.SL-   20    35    24        99       96        93        09       17.8         99        62       03     02.00
NEW ZEALAND'   73    3.2H4 5,03041    5. 6    13 61K   39    24    29            99       991       99        26       09.4        99         67       09     24.00
NRW6AY           7 6    4.06H 9,0560     7. 2      9 10.   54    24   01         9 9     99         9?9       16       10,8        99E        62       10     00.00
SWE DEN          78    B,3 00,540        6. SF6   10 01-   37    10    00        99I      99       11)0       06F      22.7       000         79       lOt    30.00E1
U. 1.            78  06.0   4,5'960i   5.6         " 64    26    39    22        99       99        100)      24       121.3      1(10        65       17      20.6
L3.S.9A.         714 206. ,5  9,770       7.I      2K    . ..  578* 08           9 9      9 8       99        221      . ..         99        97       090    40.00
1416RE11         76    9.414 4. 35146     16W    I9 4,I   37    26    21.    1461         99        142B"I    331       6,2?      70D         S14      27/     05.00
1661611D         74    3.2H1 3,13001O    5.1    ...         43Y  4)Y  04Y'  98          008E?       996       35       ..,.       906         600?    19      10.47Y
PORTUGAL         77    9.811  0,9404i   3.68    104.74    41L   21    10         7106    82         606       19        7.6?      708         30       02       5.00
R011611)         73   21.911 0 .6500H    40          .K   36    09    13         96     0010X       ...       21       .,         911         49       22      00.00
SF60l9           79   37.04 t 3.960H1   2.411       B. 01    49?   27.7  15Y    908      021        .,,x      301      ...,A                  /80?    3D       07.68?
AL 13113       29 08.5        9~ I     2 40               141 - A   261   251    354    9431     411s?l    271      34  9       521'       331?    122       0.2060X
BENIN6           74    3.3    2             '6.2W    .      471'  23[i1' 000    012    44X?         758       SAY      46  16     43$I        106?    3 96      3.74Y
B0106496         79    0. /i70             .        19.3    48    28      05S    3 5    94          74        -2       2.         335         20       18       1.50
60601131         77    4.0    0112       2.64i     20.6G  4416  33L  22L    29          25X         34        35                  07 .0        2.06   07         0.8
C6AMER00N        76    8,341  49D4       3. 78      136K6  33    43    20        ..-    60          40        52       10 8       20           96r    24        0.90?Oc
C . A.4'.        74    1 911i  2/34      3.01W       -      5 68   1914.7...    -901                22        69?          0  6A    011        60?    7761    0.20?
CHiAD            71,   4. 14  1  4          08 .U   1.A 4  71$   £           ...lX.6 1              .11)      65BuY    ..          a           2611?   30       0.018?
1011061          61)   0.4   2(6K        65        2  4    40    78    14        2011    993        65,       4        0 6.0      06          2 1      30       0.4
2DN01101         7 4    0  SH4  j5BH     6. 011             4 0    32    2)      50"     0330       63        61       13.3A      48          33X      22       3.40
E1.01??          76  38. 7    400         -.           - 13   30    35    26    446      7 3        80        30       ...        62          4 9      17?    05.00
E9 HI0900126     79 30,0    030)           . '1    011S      ..          .   .   15      36B         ,        59        ...        ...         9       40       .
06A011           74    0.611 3,37011    5OD 66              2514'   94'  OIJ'1   ...    000?        252       461       4.7       01111       310      212    0.29?
264806           7 6    0,6H  080H4    3.38          6,. 5   46    25     6      00      27         91'       31       44.7       92          13       2        .
G41ANA           74  11.044   2009        ...       I'     41?   227   20Y0   ...        636?       6211      30?      . .        1 48        356Y    062?Y  1.09?
000IN08          76    5.011H  26044     4.34               30    31    30       .,.     306        64        4!7      81          6          030      26       4.00
0001?  2060T    76    7. BYt  95D04      6E         ..8     31    46    13        96k    00         86        4         97        4 7         076?    26       0.64?
KENYA            79  0 5,I3    381)      5.98       0 ~9i<71 15           '      40      92         74        40        51        40          19       28       0.0                   4
LESOTHO          79    1,3       340      4.1       213D3   4 1    29    "0      52       68        32        49         .        61          05I      23       0.90
L0BE616          77    1.74A   4104    3.1W   0161.9        23    13    26       30       s10       ...,      54       27.9"      76          246      06       ..
MADA6AS62AR      77    8.341   2504i   4. 08       1 0         b3    211   19    53      90         33        44        . .       38          04       23      0.70
116L660          79    0.9       233.    2.2H 146 8 7       46    23   2A        25'      19        0744      6211     106 50006               66      20        .
66L0             70    6. 34    1304    4'2M6   20 71    45E  374:  08           lY E    220X         .      4111                 SOP          60      30       ..
11606016110      71    0 .04F   27311    4.0Y6   10.4K6       .     .      .     0418     0707      .         22                    ...        38?    246        .
MA61RI6T1010     76    0.941   92044    4.76    07.1K    50    26         6      808     94        919        24       09,1'"      90         40       32       0 .50
9060220          83   09,05      7 40    6.36    07.16"   36    44    20         "6      72X        35        39       09,7       40         206       20       4.50
NIGER6            77    5.04    24411    2,814    23.303 5          3     1       8       I~        50        39       38.7       30           2       24       ..
1100E606         74  80.64    6004    4.12?Y   9,60    23Y  06?   42             ..       49,'      -,        3420      . ..        . ..      000?    208?Y   0.48Y
64W1N11          GY    5. 0      43 0     3.2     26.7      6"P   I/   0011      23                 62?       40?l    04.0         6"          2       03       0.40
066606AL         77~'  5.411    36044    50.       05.99    46    34    "0       ,(32               ...       49       23.6A      20          10       20       0.5
016666  LEONE   73    3.311    23004    3.48    06.04    30    36    31'         0 1,     340       45        32       03.72C    68           036      20       0.53AY
30911          713   3. 744    06344    7.06     8.044    3E    1     2                44        ,..       32        20). 4    40              5    15        1.00
0SU61N           76   0Y. 441   340447   4.04W      5.211    48    96   01       '1       34        74        33       46.711     33          04       2 4      0.24
066ZIL860        78    0,544    580      6.1006   29.. 43    37    A3    21       ,        2        49        07        7.7       66          320     20       2.O0X
TAN1ZANIA6       78   07,0       200     6.886   00.36    4 3    09    10        66U      96        07        58B      10.16       9           4       203     0.38
T003             77    2.411   32044    5.56    03.2011   310   "'1   21         0E       7 4       40        116      13.303     52           -      44       2.00
T111U 80 II      79    6.4   0,020       9.63     16.7      41,   36    " 0      62     1 00        60        39       12.8       30         30       30       6.00
U3C06 N1.16      70   02.444    29044?   3.42?Y    .- .     340? 400?Y "'5?   "36        513?Y      ...       3489      ...       14048        668?   214      0.069
APFF'R6 30L18    77    5.64    13044    3.46    16.46K   31,   16    3           02 0C  1      3             51       52.57      09        -2         20       0.0.
ZA166            7 6  "6.84A   24044?   6. 0         -      49"26"2%             I'l      663       44        426     "0.06.    41            136     27       0.000
Z6AM818          80  5.7         5 66    5.6      11  it    46    21 "5 2        44      91         80B       4B       029         9          06       22      0.50
CENRTAL  1191R102   6111 T44E 266111B6111
3644MAS60               C. 2   2.7/146   6.N      2    K   316   36    II        91      9 9       9          2497                           75        19
BARBADOS         76       :1   2,364 080   .1               41    3:1  16f    97        136?        99        21       19. 99      99        94X       17
10076  6IC       8      22  0.010        8l 4     38. 1     40    '7   34        90      93          7        33        5          77         40       27     04.00A
CU114               3   97  1.066        8.0                                     9 6      98B       9         2          .         98a        65       00     15.00
DOMINIAN 26    F 472 "5.1-4  91009    3. 1    10."          42     ?1 .1    53            St3       I          4        4. 9 .     63         04       24       7.00
EL, 16LO174101   Y,    4.38    64344    4.        1,1   6           B            62      883        '.        3                    4 1        20'     20       7.00
GL,AYE ML ,  1           6461   9301H    1 p      1 .61 5           1 1          47      6 4        2                               t .. 6     8       25       4.09Y
H4617T           -.    64,11    '40H4   0.1         ..3:             , I         2:47     20?       1         51 li      . 6       62          4       ...     14.7
4045,146         _~2    34       4B0      4 ?F     , .9     62-   154   491F    6D?       713       70        3        12' 6'?      68        11       07       4.00
1J9919 A03 ~A    8     2,'  Th '401                                             90', IH  1 3~      ( YC  9?~  a 4        .         95        B14      22       8.00
86/U             143C0C;L A S  67.4 18,Yr3     '        1:  4'  3C~    927                Y    ~  985                              816"       56       07     10.30
4i'R                    26661    60         4.0   16l 9     611   13    391    907       61          4        4                    938         41     37        7.001)
P6ANA6A                                                     4   .  260       27   42G   1 31I,    1    769  97  21, 31  1'         858        49       348    20.00
TRINDAD& 1              I  I i 9, 1,714  4.5      1     ~ 4         2    2       90       96        9          0       10)3'il     49         62       24
91(11i4INA1]                                                419   3 1     Yb1 0l    93   8?                                        67,1  ,,g  3 1       6     23.00
11444 ,,116       144     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                ~~~~ ~~~1 0  .3  ...   ..  471  605                 .           4      18
E RAZ  I  5        I (11   2.3(6           '  2  4 I21   YI'0I,       64,1    OEBf                 27                    ...       26F      108?    6.00OA
C F IL E    "t  1~'H1 I4!?H~   BY1 .610      (4414  2"1    169 0Y    0        I    .9Y                 35Y?      S 14.8A     ...       483?    . . I 06.55Y
IL 1641                  (4! , ,6  96)114 !.ic      .       4 41     F? 22C    1?    /131C   10 t,9xY 2       3?Y    I1008D        91'       366?    0411      6.67Y
I'LJ,',l OR  , -1  I569~         4 (f4    5                                                        6       (2.6        88         47       1 6      28. 76
1U711,           "    C 1411    oIl,      133    I.. 14                         816l    92'S                  3       1 9.60 C    1 9       62.3     2 4       1 .00
,~. r RI  5 Ur, Y " ~i u  9~~(H I .     1 2 ,   4  0''2         694      11 2                 1.       3.16R       70j       22       12       7. 00
R I I G i  A  )H I ,"90H  "I     4 ,   4 6          2 U     941     943                  3 24     12.36m      603        ...      I0
'17E ZI IELi11O1,41H                    4  W         .9K     f        111  15.11 '4 7    91                  33          .        ...        3 3      ...     0261



- 27 -
COMPARATIVE EDUCATION INDICATORS (CONTO)
=  =                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~ANNEX I
Table 1
SEPTEMBER 30, 1981                                                 Page 2 of 2
*  ,                I~~~~CENTRAL:
INP!            :EYP. ON: 1 OF PUBLIC 1                               IRI .  RECURRENT:                      S!E C
P APITA.              :EIIU. AS: EDIUCATIUN   :LITER- IPRI . ICDMPLE- :SrU- :UNIT COST)PROGRESS -- SEA  . 'ST11- IFHTGHLR
* .AT  :             12 TTL. : RECURRENT    lACY        :&INROLL)TION      :DENTS:PRIM. ED. UDN RATE :ENR0Li-[iENTS'.ENkfL;I
:MARKET: % GNFK  :CENTRALIEXP ALLOCATED:'  RATE '.RATIO :RATE FUR:PER  :AS % GNP'/IFROM PET. IKAIO  IF-ER  :(47101
-      0 P. :PRICES: DIEVOTEDI: GOVT. :       TO:       :(E OF  : NET  :PRI.SCH,:TEACH: CAPITA  :ro  SEC,    NE-I  :TFACH- (SE(
~RMI1LLS.:, (US$>: TO EDU.: EXP,  :PR1. SEC. HI.:AOULTS): (1)  :CYCLE;(%lHER    II(CE                              :1.   R(         '-
()  (2) 1(3)           (4)          ( E)     1(6)        (7)  1(8)          (9>     (10)    1(IL)         12(:) V3 El)     4
I,A AN) 01(ANKIA
AFGHANISIAN    77  14.6H  160H        1.b      .,       47   19   15    12        29K       69       37       13.B      62          81     (7      1.00
,AO4G) ADE)~;H    79  92.9(4   90~    1AL1Io 149C   5I   17   20    220,   718              ...      53        6.2P     ...        144    71       1 .4,
I.HINA      79Y 971.0   256       3.3       6.6    34   36   30    66    913            64       27        8.0      83         516    19        _,. ))
INDIA           75 643.9H  IBOH    2.6Y         1.9K    ,...   ...,..    298    65XY        ...,    43A       . .,    .            291Y    2E0AY   2.34EY
INDONESIA       743 136,0H  340       2.4W    ...       260  32B  150   62    92            48       32       ...       70         19      17      2.00
IRAN            73  35.8H    12.2k 3.3W  12.2H    508  18B  128   50             77         74A      32       ...       BoA        24      32      4.321Y
IRAD            75  12.2H 1,850H   6.71W .. ... . .. .,..    261    93XY                   ,...     22       .,.       ...        351Y   2)6c    8.4'Y
JORDAN          79   2.2  1,180H   6.13    1D.8F    19   44   18    70    97X               B5       32        7,2      94         65      22     14.20(
KOREA           78  36,6  1,310       2.8W    16.5K    35   29   36    93         102X      94        49       8.61     9)         60      4!,   1(1.00
LEBANON         72   3.0k., *         3.5W    *..       39   40   10    68        86        65        19      23.28     63         26)J    215    2,)
MALAYSIA        76  13.3H 1,150H   6.7W   21.7K   42   34   15    608    95                 93       32        6.6D1   78          48      28      3,0))
NEPAL           80  1 4.3   140       1,OWF   9,9       29F  20K  41F   19F   59F           28K      31F      . . .     64F        14F     24F    0,1(0l
OMAN            72     .8H 2,/90H   1.7NW   5,1K   96   -.    -            20     24X       99       27F    25.0?        . ..      0.4X    9         .
PAKISTAN        79  78.))   270       2.0       2.5K   39   26   27    24         56X       50E      48        6,5      .. .       204     17      6.001
PAPUA N.K,G     75   2.9H  620k       5.4LW  17.OK   38   16   24    32           57?       73P       31      28.0?     90         124?    24      0,90'l
F'HIL1FPPINIS   79  46,8   600        2.BW    135.7K   64   36***          75      84       65        31       7.0      89         55      36   21.0))
Si NGAPORE      74   2. 3K 3,260K    2. 7YW  14. 9K   39Y  39Y  17Y   72A   IO9XY           72A      31?       7.4A     99A        441?    24      7, 68?
SYRIA           78   7.9   960H    4.4          6.3H   39   25   26    58a         894      80        35       7.7E     68         41X    21      12.60
THAILAND,       77'   44,5  530       4.OVW   19.9K  15   30   15    84F   83               30        35      10.01    7))         28      25      3.0))
TURKEY          73  43,1KH 1,250H   5. 6CYW  18.6K  ...... ...                   85Y        ...      34Y       7.2A     .. .       24Y    27[Y        . 83Y
YEMEN           73   5.6H  410H    0.5W         10.8K  4SF   21P  23P   10        15X       18       36       19.3      75j         21     19      0,0587p
YEMEN P.D.R,  76   1.8K  450K         6.6W      ...    57   28    8    40K   898            48       30       18.6      94         21X    24       0.10
SUMMARY FO)R DEVELOPINS COUNTRIES:
NUMBER Of- COUNTRIES:                102      82       89   90   90    94       101        81       101      71        85        1))0     99    87
RANGE'                              (0.5-  (1,9-    (20  (8-  (3-   (1-    (13-          (13-      (16-   (3,1        (8.-       (.4-    (8-    (.01-
9. 9    30.5)   96 ) 73)  10)   99)   133X)   99)              69 )  52.51    99)           95  )  45)  41 .0)
QUARTILES:UPPER 15.6                       17,5     49   25   22    86        90        ?1        42      9          91        48       21     11.0
MEDIAN:                4.2     13.0      42   26   18    60       82         61       34       13        68         24      22      3.4
LOWER 1                3.0      9.9      34   21   13   .25    56            33       29      20         41         11      18      1.0
SYMBOLS:... DATUM UNAVAILABL-E                 A=1971 OR BEFORE            N=CURRENT PRICES                         SOURCES:
-MAGNITUDIE NIL OR NEBLIGINLE B=1972                          P=SDP----
Q UESTIONABLE                     C=1973                      O=INCLUDING FOREIGN AID                   COLUMNS) 1 AND 2 WORLD BANK ATLAS
*INCLUDES FPART-TIME STUDENTS 0=1974                          R=CENTRAL GOVT. ONLY                                         OR IBRDI MISSIDNS
*t*  COMBINEDi WITH PRIMARY          E=1975                      S=MINISTRY OF EDUCATION (MOE) ONLY                  3 TO 14 IBRD MISSIONS
*8COMBINED WITH HIGHER             F=1976                      T=MOE AND STATE GOVT. ONLY                                   AND/OR UNESCO
0=1977                      U=EXCLUDING CENTRAL GOVT.                                    STATISTICAL
=19170                      V=INCLUDING PRIVATE EXPENDITURE                              YEARBOOK
K=1979                      W=PUBLIC ERPENDITURE ONLY
L=1980                      X=INCLUDING OVERAGEDI STUDENTS
M=19al                      Y=UNESCO SOURCES
COMPARATIVE EDUCATION DIATA ARE USEF'UL IN THE EVALUATION OF VARIOUS EDtUCATION SYSTEMS AND ANALYSIS OF RELATIVE STAGES OF EDUCATIONAIL
DEVELOPMENT BETWEEN VARIOUS COUNTRIES. HOWEVER,ON THE BASIS OF THE PRESENT DATA,CROSS-NATIONAL COMPARISON SHOULD BE APPROACHED WITH
GREAT CAUTION, DATA PRESENTED IN THE ABOVE TABLE HAVE BEEN COLLECTED LARGELY BY THE BANK MISSIONS FROM GOVERNMENT SOURCES; TNE
REMAINDER ARE STAFF ESTIMATES OR DATA FROM UNESCO, EFFORTS NAVE BEEN MADE TO STANDARDIZE DEFINITIONS AND WITHIN LIMITS, TO CHECK THE
ACCURACY OP THE DATA. NEVERTHELESS,SUCH DATA ARE STILL IMPERFECT IN SEVERAL RESPECTS AND THE BANK IS WORKING TO IMPROVE THEM
PROGRESSIVELY ON TNE OCCASION OF IT'S OPERATIONAL WORK. IN THE USE OF THESE DATA, THE FOLLOWING OUALIFICATIONS SHOULD BE BORNE IN
MIND)
(I)IED*CATION' AS DEFINED IN THE TABLE INCLUDES ALL EDUCATION AND TRAINING, FORMAL AND NON-FORMALS
(2)'PRIMARY EDUCATION REFER'S TO EDUCATION AT THE FIRST LEVEL AND 'SECONDARY' EDUCATION REFERS TO ALL EDUCATION AT THE SECONDARY
LEVEL REGARDiLESS OF TYPE (E.G. GENERAL, TECHNICAL, AGRICULTURAL) 
(3)'LITERACY RArES-(COL.6) ARE OFTEN OBTAINED FROM COUNTRY CENSUSEE. IN MANY COUNTRIES THEY ARE ONLY APPROXIMATIONS AND IT IS
DOUBTFUL TKAT ANY UNIFORM DIEFINITION OF 'LITERATE' HAS BEEN FOLLOWED CONSISTENTLY;
(4)FPUBLIC EXPEND(ITURE IN EDUCATION' (COLS 4 AND 5) REFERS rO ALL CAP'ITAL AND RECURRENT EXPENDIlTURES DEVOTED TO EDUCATION BY
PUBLIC ANDI QUASI-PUBLIC AGENCIES;
5)SHENROLLMENT RATIOS'(COLS 7, 12 AND 14) REFER TO SCHOOL YEAR AND MEAN THE PERCENTAGE OF ELIGIBLE CHILDREN ENROLLED FULL-TIME
IN THE APPROP'RIATE SCHOOL, PUBLIC AND PRIVATE BY LEVEL. IKE? ARE OFTEN SUBJECT TO A WIDE MARGIN OF ERROR IN THE DEVELOPING
COUNTRIES OWING TO VARIATION IN THE ACCURACY OF' BASIC DIATA<I.E. AGE-SP'ECIFIC P'OPULATION ANDI ENROLLMENTS). ENROLLMENT FIGURES
FREQUENTLY ARE HIGHER THAN THE NUMBER OF STUDENTS ACTUALLY IN SCHOOL, OVERASED STUDENTS WHOSE INCLUSION IS INDICATED BY
FOOTNOTES ALSO CAN INFLAT'E THE RATIOS.



BOTSWANA
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
PROJECTIONS OF PRIMARY SCHOOL ENROLLMENTS
1980-1990
'S4tandard
1         2          3          4          5         6          7       Total
Year
1980        31,878    26,903    23,673    24,030  21,961          21,200  21,202       170,847
1981        33,471    30,285    25,558    28,497  16,822          20,863  25,440       180,936
1982        35,144    31,798    28,771    31,405  19,949          15,981  26,180       189,228
1983                                                  L 36,901    33,387    30,209    35,184  21,984  18,952   L 21,727  198,344 mi
1984        38,746    35,056    31,718    37,495  24,629          20,885  23,436       211,965
1985        40,683    36,809    33,304    39,506  26,248          23,398  25,700       225,648
1986        42,310    38,649    34,969    41,515  27,655          24,936  28,654       238,688
1987        44,002    40,195    36,717    43,599  29,062          26,273  30,853       250,701
1988        45,762    41,802    38,186    45,781  30,521          27,609  32,673       262,334
1989        47,592    43,474    39,712    47,722  32,047          28,995  34,397       273,939
1990        49,495    45,213    41,301    49,657  33,406          30,445  36,145       285,662
Assumptions: (i) Enrollment for 1980, actual figures and official growth rate projections;                        H
(ii) Enrollment in Standard 1 increases at 5% p.a. between 1980  and 1985, and 4% p.a.              aHm
between 1985 and 1990.                                                                          X
(iii) Repetition rate is zero in all Standards except in Standards 4 and 7, where
repetition rate is 25% in each;
(iv) Drop-out rate is 5% in all Standards for all years included in the projections.
Source: Ministry of Education and Bank Staff estimates, March 1981.



- 29 -                        ANNEX 1
Table 3
REPUBLIC OF BOTSWANA
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
GOVERNMENT EXPENDITURES ON EDUCATION, 1976/77-1985/86
(Pula Million)
Total
Government     (2)/(l)       Government        (4)/(2)    (4)/(1)
FY         GDP    Expenditure    Percent    Expenditure on    Percent    Percent
Education 1/
(1)     ~(2)           (3)             (4)            (5)         (6)
Actual
1976/77         300.0        99.8          33.2           15.8            15.8        5.2
1977/78         346.5      122.9           35.4           24.7            20.0        7.1
1978/79         503.4      172.2          34.2            32.1            18.6       6.3
Estimates
1979/80         696.2      227.9          32.7            44.2            19.3        6.3
Projected
(79/80 Prices)
1984/85        1057.0      322.3          30.5           62.6             19.4       6.0
Source:  Ministry of Finance, National Development Plan 1979-85,
Gaborone, Botswana and World Bank Staff estimates.
1/ Includes Ministry of Education and university but exclude education and
training under other Ministries.



REPUBLIC OF BOTSWANA
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
PRIMARY EDUCATION TEACHER REQUIREMENTS
AND SUPPLY 1980-1990
Required No. of Teachers
Required      Annual Demand        by Qualification 4/             Annual         Annual Def-
Enrollment     Number of         for New                                           Supply of   icit or Surplus
Year   Projections    Teachers 2/    Teachers 3/          Qualified       Unqualified    Teachers 5/  of Teachers 6/
1980 1/   170847          5280               -          3351    64.0    1929    36.0            -                 _
1981      180936          5482              360         3609    65.8    1873    34.2           450              + 90
1982      189228          5734              416         3915    68.3    1819    31.7           450              + 34
19q83     198344          6010             448         4247    706    1763    29.4             450              +  2
1984      211965          6423              593        4708    73.2    1715    26.8            450              -143
1985      225648          6837              606         5167    75.5    1670    24.5           450              -156
1986      238688          7232              600         5607    77.5    1625    22.5           450              -150
1987      250701          7597              581         6018    79.2    1579    20.8           450              -131
1988      262334          7949              579         6416    80.7    1533    19.3           450              -129
1989      273939          8301              590         6812    82.1    1489    17.9           450              -140
1990      285662          8656              604         7215    83.4    1441    16.6           450              -154
Source: Ministry of Education and Bank Group Staff estimates, April 1981.
1/ Actuals.
2/ This assumes a pupil/teacher ratio of 33:1.
3/ The difference between the number of teachers required in any two consecutive years plus
attrition replacement (3% of the number of teachers in the first year).
4/ Assuming no new unqualified teachers are hired.
5/ Annual supply of teachers from the teacher training colleges.
6/ Annual deficits (or surplus) in the supply of qualified teachers which would be covered by theproposed project.



-  31  -M -x
Table s
S .MLtlXY OIF ETTRnTJ.lNIT PJn E.TlmiPl.l LP.I~JG'-T r'ST,
(1x BD;st-- P 1ls il  0       '-Y C1             L 0 'P  pi     uia 1.TD   UF  1._&)
U'd-t ~~~~~~~otlAre                                         'i< I W-kz
FI.j-t It-    ~loor1.                            OOe3,l           o   f     ia K2 4-                   '       .10orI0o   -.  (IN  -I'.
Froject Itmem                             Niadent          =lardine       Niet Staff  Newceoos-                     __________________________                                                                   Aol                                              10101 T00,1tIe  P:oo311s)1Sl-  t  Tt:l
Noie and  lo-otio-                               AdOO     F.11    Add    Fi-lT l r                                                                                                                                        l]l -l                                                         s$ror 0    0.n100 o  0000  1   io.rC1  pc  o.k  OcOlO<05    1-c starce    Sorocces IA!-    luo  119
lactiC A - N1e  Facilitie  to 14115<01
and Nsw Primori lohoolo
A1-20      N-oth-E-Bt Distrcit                              ho0        aon      -                              2,000        .'.I          -              .1         017 .0       5           _            52.0                            371.2         _               _                 .2       479.1
All-2OI    Central Diotrlot                               7,200      7,200      _        _           00       10,012      2,47Y,7         -         1.103..      2.5 2.2        114.1)       _           500.0            4-0)         4.130.4          _               _           4 .Lo9.4    5,36i. 
A,201_22S i goolerog District                             1,000      3,03s)     _        _           13        2.5'0        275.1         -           1.-'0.L       R9,5         b5.0        -            r7  7           I              464.0          _               _             4r4.o        590.-3
A, 26205  Kgeetl-  District                               3,100      3000       -        _           3-        5.00       1.0-2.?         -           419.'      1,4'02.5      2L1.          _           24,.,            b.0          L74.             _                           1,741.,    2,234.0
A.226-  -g Di.t~~~~~~~~~i~~t  3:0'o)o    'i: wo       37                                                                            .5                                    '3 ~~~~~-  10.  0..  0,0.                      -2536                   3,277.0i
A.301-4io  3onth..n DiOeriot                              4,40o      4,4no                                             _ _ S 5  1l,2D0  1,514.0 _                                                                         3.7-8                                                        27 4.4      35,. 3
A.411-4 5  SruthEasot Diriot                                60         (00 D i                        Rt0 C                     .t5       -           1b05 .       3345           54.0       -             0.             1.2            305,1 3        _                             3            498.
A   4 2 6- 4 4U   K   . 1 .El di  Djis t   I,t 60               0      4 0 0                           I _   5   1 , 0 0 0   3  0. 7      _              0 1. 1    1  0 0 . 1    i 3 . 0     _            3 3 .0           0 . 0         2 3 2 .   i    _                             2 3 2 . 9    2 9 8 . 0
A.451-50e  North-West District                            2,000      2,000 _,0                       25        0.10         06,.'?                    1  .1      1,00.0         0300         _           222.0            1.3          1,110.3          _               _           1,&25.3    2.080.b
Su4-Tiotl                                   20,000    20,000                _          25u       50.000      7,217.6         -          ,123.4       o,i4.0     1,677.5         _         1,677.5           40..2        ll,158.            _                         11-,15.7    15,179. L
SPrimoey lchool Teiaoka                        _            _       _        _           _           _           _            _              _           _            _          _                          3031.6                          _               _              30 .6       50e0.1
PTeinical  -ssIstance                           _                     - _       _        _              _        _             _             _           _                                                                                   0 _  _                        201.3       360.10
T0t1l 00t10  A                               20,0009   20,000       _        _          250   | 502,1         ,,017 e         _           ,1.0        0    .0    1.. 0,5 7                 1,6-7.'          430.0          12,249.3        201.31                       12,530.6c  16,0o0.1
Sector B - Tew Primary Tenher Troioic'  _0 1004
B.1  Tlokweng PiTC,Gaboone                                   300        300    302      _00          12        b,60U      1,050.0      1,150.0        570.L I0211                ol..      020.0         204.0          130.0          3.3).4.4         _             5060,       | 3 ,112       4,920.3
ProJoct Ad.ilost-sti-o
Technical  AB  stance                                       _         _. _                                                                                                                 .. _                                         - _.                                           0  _ 
Tot.1 BBse  -oBt (lololor 1981 prieci ) )i  TTa                                       _,307,                                           ,1.0        3 63 1    1  171.0        1,7 5        120.2       1,8s1.5          5su.4   _      5,I0            476.6         5o0.l  521 _Oy,4
15 219                                                   0,633.1      '.470.0       .  , .       hT937.       .25  ,0      75.7       2,02.3           0TO            19,99.0          10.           7933911 209.
Physi-1 (9,%
Pricor (99)                                                                                                                                                   1,315.1                                   rO'IL         158.0          1,4,7.1            7            50.0         1.427.1    .,'D3.;
lsoIr..a.e (39311.                                                                                                                                                                                  533.0l        159.2D          5.105.'        110.0)         165 0 0          45cOo     6,002.
-oal*Oniz- noi          I. koa9~9H6.   .0                                                                                                                                                                            0¶.o)        T,5102           110.50        217.0         07~
ur 1$                                                                                                                                 .332..                                 7,2.7           304~T91202-                                                             977
Tetal Pro-eJ-t Coit (ic-lldi-g -ontinge-i-es
)colo                                                                                                                              in 673.t                                7,520X.5        407.B05e       o,, 134.0                                    23,4.7.5
0oreir. Exchange Comtponent  )7i 11                                                                                                                              63Z                                  2,55(Ld           '?.2,t         666i           90             eS7,             _          67Z
i.  3. 0                                                                                                                   15,210.0                                2.5_5.0            0 .0        18.610.0         f[ 2.1.3          U                     22o.    0
Source:  IBP3






ANNEX 1
- 32 -                                    Table 6
BOTSWANA III
ESTIMATED COST BY CATEGORY
Pula (Million)                    US$ Million
Category                  Local    Foreign    Total    Local    Foreign    Total    % of
Base Cost
1. Civil Works
a.  Teaching/Communal          3.07       5.24       8.31     3.93       6.70       10.63       50
b.  Boarding                   0.42       0.73       1.15     0.55       0.92        1.47        7
c.  Staff Housing              1.36       2.33       3.69     1.75       2.98        4.73       22
Sub-Total                  4.85      8.30      13.15      6.23      10.60       16.83       79
.2.   Furniture                     0.38       1.50      1.88      0.48       1.93        2.41       11
3.   Equipment and Textbooks       0.06       0.50       0.56     0.07       0.65        0.721'      4
4.  Technical Assistance           0.05       0.43       0.48     0.06       0.55        0.61        3
5.   Professional Services LA/E) 0.10         0.40       0.50     0.13       0.51        0.64        3
Total Base Cost
(October 1981)             5.44      11.13      16.57      6.97     14.24       21.21      100
6.   Contingencies
a.  Physical (9%)             0.53       0.96      1.49      0.68       1.22        1.90
b.  Price Increase (32%)    1.82         3.56       5.38     2.35       4.54        6.89
Sub-Total                2.35       4.52       6.87      3.03       5.76        8.79
Total Project Cost (1-6)    7.79       15.65      23.44    10.00       20.00       30.00
Of which taxes                                     0.62                             0.80
Total Project Cost                                22.82                            29.20
(net of taxes)
1/ Estimated cost of textbook US$ 500,000.



I



H     H     H     H             H    H
0'    0   .0                                                                .     .                      0
000  H   H                                            H     00    0                      H
H     o                                                 0.    H
00   0                                                            -H   0<    H
00   0                 H                                          H     H     H                      H
OH H                                        0'o  .                                              H    H
000                                .r0             H
0000' 00-3<0              H  00           H
H   H   H                             H      H            H    H    H       H          H
HO         0                                          0     0    00
0               o9j..H             H               0                  0           0                      0
000'    0              H.           0              0                   H    0
H    Ho    H'                                               H
H.0HOHHH                  0  00   0             ro  0                                          0      0    0                      0
0000  bOO                     OH   01                o                       .0   .    0        0          H                      H   H
00 HO 000                                            H                                           0    00    0
0 HO 0 HO 0                                 ...               0                                        00                               0
0000000                       0                      00       0                                  H     H    H                      .-.  0
000                   0             H                                                   -.    0      H                     H
000 0                                                                                           0  HO                             HO
001   0000                                           .0                                          H     0    H                      0   0
OHH                                                  0                                           0     H                 0
O     00HH               S                          0                                           0'    0
0H0.OOOHO                                            H                                           0     H    H                      H   .0
000000   H                                           H                                           H           0
OH    H                    H                                                                         Iii
000   00   OH                                OH
OH0    5H    O    H                          H                                                                   H
000'HHO                0    O
0      H         0                 0                                                                        0
0            0   0                                                                         0
H..   <oo'        00         000       H                 H
00 HO           H                              L                                                                             0
0    H                  0'                    H
00                     0                                                                             0
0                           .00                    0                                                                             H
00.00         0       HO                     L                                                                             0
O0HH H 000 0
0HOH 0 0
0   0000            0       HO                     .0
0   000H            0       00                                                                                                   H
HO 0 0 HO
.0                .0                              500
0'    0      00    00    H                            0
1815       5           5     0            00    0     H
K1              VL              k;Ii  koL   0   0                          S   H   0'  .0
'0<                                                  0     '0   00      0     .0
0                                      '00                                                  H     H     .0     .     .0             -        .b
00                                                   00   00      0     .0   .0
0                       00          <HO                 00                                                   0     .0                  00   H                        00
-                   0.  0           <00                 00                                                  .0   .0                         07        &  P'
H   0           .00.0              0              .0   .0    0                          0     H
0  ..          .000                0              0     00   00                        00   00
'00             .00.0              0                                                    00    H                        0.
0 <'>0 .0 - .0.00 '0
00  0.          <000               .0                                HO    .0  ,0   000  000
00  00          <00                0              00    00   HO   00    00   .<   .00   oooo
00  00         .0000               .0                                                   000   CC
<to                                                 .0,0  00.00  0.,
<'00               00                                0000   00   0-0   .000  .000
<<0                0                                 0000   0.0  00.0  0.00   H.
0'0,0              0                                 0     H      00    00    0
.00.0              H                                 0     00   00
<00'               0              00    0     .0    00   00    0
.0.000             H               H    00   .0      H     0     0'
00000              H                                 .0   00    0       H     '0
.0000              20                               00    0      0
00<00              0                                 00   000   H
.000.              0                                 <0   0.00  00
00  0              00                                00   00   00
0              0                    00    H     00-0   HO   H       000   H
.000               H                                 00   000-0  0      0000  .0
0000               0                    H    0       00<   00   0
0000               H                                 00    H     -      00   00
OHH                .0                                0     .0     0     .0    H
0000               H                    H    .0      0     00    H
00  00          0000               0                     H    H      0      H     H
000                H                                 0     H    H
000                00        -                       H     00   0'
.000               0                                 0<   0
0   0           0000              00                                000  00            <0
00  00          0-oH               00                                000   0            00.                   00
00.'.           000                H                                 000  00
0.00               H                                 00   0             0.0                  .0
00  '0          0.00               00                                00   0             00.0                       .0
00              00'00              H                                 0     H            0
0               00000              H                                 0      H           0.
00              000.0              H                                 00    H            0                     H
0               .0000                                                00    H            0
0000                                                       H            0
H               00000                                                0     H            0
00              00000                                                00                 0
00              00.0                                                00                  0
H               0.00                                                 0                  0                     0>
H               HOH                                                  00                 0
00              0000                                                 0                  0                     -0
00              000                                                  00                 0
00              <OH
H                  H                          0'






ANNEX 1
- 34 -                               Table 8
BOTSWANA III
ESTIMA,TED SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENT I'
(US Millions)
Quarter           Disb.ursements         Accumulated              Undisbursed
Disbursements           Balance
1                    -                      -                      20.00
2                  0.30                   0.30                     19.70
3                  0.50                   0.80                     19.20
4                  0.80                   1.60                     18.40
5                  1.20                   2.80                     17.20
6                  1.30                   4.10                     15.90
7                  1.30                   5.40                     14.60
8                  1.40                   6.80                     13.20
9                  1.40                    8.20                    11.80
10                  1.40                    9.60                    10.40
11                  1.50                   11.10                      8.90
12                  1.50                   12.60                      7.40
13                  1.40                   14.00                      6.00
14                  1.30                   15.30                      4.70
15                  1.20                   16.50                      3.50
16                  1.10                   17.60                      2.40
17                  0.90                   18.50                      1.50
18                   0.70                  19.20                      0.80
19                   0.50                  19.70                      0.30
20                   0.30                  20.OQ
1/ From date of Loan effectiveness.



- 35 -
ANNEX 1
CHART 1
z  i
z~~~~~~~~~~~~~
W.z
.-Jw S'
z~~_
-J



REPUBLIC OF BOTSWANA
STRUCTURE OF THE EDUCATIONAL SYSTEM (1979)
I  2      .J      1     !,      b      /         t3      9     IU         11     12                 IA    1-1      Ib      1,           /          h,tAI, *
1,  /  ES   SI    Ill~~~I 11  I            13      14    is         IG      1/                 18    I'J       0      2l  1       )' -1
I~ ~~   ~~~~~ 2(ll 3i_
(:HAt I TRAINliit,      CI IANINIAN
r YPIS i                 At CUN I IN( AND (:1 i 1i.IfliA I
I ItAININ(i               I fAIN1191'J
-]
PHiltAHY                  Stt(AllJiJA10
iLAC(-lElt                IEACICiEl                        I flil) I LVLL.
LIAlt ADtkS              IHAININ(.                   llt1                          I HAININU Aillio1-JL
iIINIUIl      i         Si NIDIH                  U C II                                .IC.13i
t lillVIAliY                                       SiCtJNJNAfiY /t-OHMsJ    Sf.lINDUAHY If tPAHNISI          IAl
I l- H 2 H i-:H -H-- H. .                  . . : H kH }{ -49_3-{
[7FVIA'}-{7'7+ti-t9IHt iXl l;IViLI I                                                                                          t21llh  ii 
A(,ICt*(jl t I(ft/X      *A0,IiIt.Al ILM.,1-L
t H IlI-ILAT I LVII      I IIt)hl I vt IV
i HAININi.,                I HAINI ltH,
I'JI NtJH  9k* Lb          I nflt) i'j I ftJICf ,t
TI-LI-.                     il-ViH- I
ISI I.   PRIMARY SCHOOL LEAVER CERTIFICATE                      MIlPttli Itl                         I
AC  IlilIfIl IA 111 IIICAtL  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~I`MN  MI i)
(y J(.  .IIJffi'JIOIti.tlSl;}li_A[i'                    i   I                                                      x  ss~~~~~~N  F



REPUBLIC OF BOTSWANA
EDUCATION PROJECT
EDUCATION PYRAMID - 1980
AS A %OF"/    EDUCATION
AGE GROUP        LEVEL                                     MALE                                                                                                  FEMALE
42  32                                                                                                             74
1 4%/        UNIVERSITY
YEARS                                                                                         100   85                                                                                                            185
137   95                                                                                                            232
244   176                                                                                                           420
846    fi77                                                                                                          1,5931
SECONDARPY                                                                             1.023             1,267                                                                                                  2,290
23°.b        FORMS                                                                              1  993                       2,510                                                                                           4,503
2,658                             13,85                                                                                         5,743
3,003                                    3,860                                                                                    6,863
20,992
8,716    _                                                                                                  ; | 12,486                                       21,202
9,1581    .                                                                                                   1 12,042                                         21,200
107%         PRIMARY                                      9,225                                                                                                               12,236                                        21,961
10.965                                                                                                                         13,065                                    24,030
11,104                                                                                                                       12,569                                      23,673
12,7144                                                                                                                                      14.159                               26,903
15,217                                                                                                                                                               16,661           3       1878
20       18        16        14        12        10        8         6         4         2        0         2         4         6         8        10        12        14         16        16        20      170,647
8IN THOUSANDSi
TOTALS  1, Source: Population SlOtisiCs pro,eoted from the 1971 Ce-sus                                                                                                                                         \.ldor-d Eek-22793



BOTSWANA
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
MINISTRY OF LOCAL GOVERNMENT AND LANDS
ORGANIZATIONAL CHART
VICE PRESIDENT
ASSISTANT MINISTER                                   PRIVATE SECRETARY
PERMANENT SECRETARY      I
DEPT. PERM. SECRETARY
APPLIED RESEARCH UNIT                                        FINANCE UNIT                                                                   o
ENGINEERING & CONSTRUCTION                                     PLANNING UNIT
SPECIALISTS
COMMISSIONER OF CUSTOMARY COURTS
& TRIBAL ADMINISTRATION
ASST. SEC/STAFF        ASST. SEC/COMMON         UNDER SEC/URBAN             COMMISSIONER OF           ASST. SEC/RURAL         ASST. SEC/SOCIAL &
DEV. & TRAINING        SERVICES DIVISION        AFFAIRS DIVISION           LANDS/LAND DIVISION        AFFAIRS DIVISION        COMM. OEV. DIVISION
DEPARTMENT
DIRECTOR OF               DIRECTOR,                    OLCI!                   DIRECTOR,.SA, E2
TOWN & REGIONAL         SURVEYS & LANDS                  i.F.P.              LOCAL GOV'T AUDIT             U LL. G. S.
DiSTRICTS                -         r,.                                                          .
LAND BOARD           DiSTRICT COUNCILS          DISTRICT ADMIN.             TRIBAL ADMIN.    ]       TOWN COUNCILS                                                 X
1/ International Food Program
2/ Unified Local Government Service                                                                                                    World Bank-22794



- 39 -
ANNEX 2
REPUBLIC OF BOTSWANA
OVERVIEW OF THE EDUCATION SECTOR
Historical Background
1.      The development of a public, systematized education service in Botswana
essentially dates from the coming of independence in 1966. Prior to that date,
education was largely in the hands of missionary societies and almost entirely
limited to the primary cycle. Thus in 1966 there were no more than 251 primary
schools with an enrollment of about 71,500 and only nine secondary institutions
with a total of 1,500 students. Since then, while in several respects continu-
ing to bear the imprint of its colonial forebear, the education service has
grown significantly, in quantitative terms, at all levels, and has developed a
firm institutionalized base.
2.      Administration.  Overall reisponsibility for primary, secondary,
non-formal, vocational and higher ediucation (other than the UCB) is vested in
the MOE which accounts for about 95% of total enrollments and some 80% of recur-
rent expenditures in education and training.  Responsibility for agricultural
and health education rests with the Ministries of Agriculture (MOA) and Health
(MOH) respectively. At national level, the MOE oversees sector development
plans, curriculum development, teacher training and appointments, and public
school administration and supervision. The MOE additionally ensures compliance
by private schools with Government regtulations. The system is, however, to some
extent decentralized; each of the nine districts and four townships into which
Botswana is administratively divided has an elected local authority with
statutory responsibilities for primary education, including school construction
and maintenance, equipment and certain administrative expenditures. Each local
authority has an education secretary whio is responsible for such matters as
posting of teachers, inspection of buildings, provision of materials, etc. and
the MOE has education officers responsible for professional aspects of primary
education (in-service work and school inspection). inspection and for advising
the authority on educational matters.  The Rural Extension Coordinating Commit-
tee, an interministerial body under the aegis of the MFDP, coordinates the
non-formal programs of the various ministries and departments.
3.      The Government's intention over the medium term to restructure the
primary and secondary education system and to encourage local self-help con-
struction programs for a new style junior secondary school, will call for the
strengthening of the existing administrative structure within the period of the
current NDPV.



- 40 -
Structure of the Formal Education System
4.      The present structure of the formal education system is as follows.  (a)
primary education 7 years (Standards 1-7, between the ages of 6-12 years) lead-
ing to the PSLC; (b) secondary education 5 years (Forms 1-5, between the ages of
13-17 years) in two cycles: junior secondary course, Forms 1-3 leading to the
JCE and senior secondary education, Forms 4-5, leading to the Cambridge Overseas
School Certificate (COSC) or the GCE; and (c) higher education, principally at
the UCB offering a variety of degree, diploma and certificate courses of varying
duration.
Primary Education
5.      In quantitative terms, primary education has made significant advances.
Gross enrollments in 19791/, at 156,700, represented 90% of the 6-12 years age
group, or an average annual growth rate since 1972 of over 9.0%. Moreover, the
introduction of automatic promotion, and the reduction in, and subsequent aboli-
tion of primary school fees, has improved completion rates to over 80%, even
when allowance is made for students repeating the Standard 7 (final year)
course. Girls represented 55% of total enrollments.
6.      Qualitaivelyl, however, the primary subsystem faces a number of major
problems. (a) There is an acute shortage of classroom accommodation: in 1979
there were 2,876 classrooms for 4,563 classes, so that double and even triple
shifts, and classes held in the open air are common phenomena; (b) Teacher
supply: 38% of primary school teachers are unqualified; (c) the curriculum is
excessively academic, preparing students in rote, memoristic fashion for the
next level of education, to which access is limited and fiercely competitive,
rather than for the world of work; (d) teaching support systems are deficient,
with supplies of teaching/learning materials in short supply, and school super-
visory services inadequate; and (e) access and equity: remote communities have
poor, or no school facilities; of the 20% of all schools offering less than the
full primary course, most are in these areas; they also have the greatest dearth
of classrooms (up to 46% of present requirements), the highest proportion of
unqualified teachers (up to 48%), and predictably the poorest results in the
PSLC examinations.
Secondary Education
7.      (a)  Junior Secondary Education in 1979 was offered in 20 Government or
aided, and 16 unaided secondary schools; by 1980, these figures had grown to 22
and 20 respectively. In 1979, total enrollments of 16,740 included 4,560 (27%)
in unaided schools and first form intakes were about 3,650 and 1,800 respec-
tively, a total of 5,450 places for the 14,395 primary school graduates of 1978.
Progression rates from primary to secondary education were, therefore, 33%
within the Government/aided school sector, or 50% overall. Dropout rates were
minimal (5%) in Government/aided schools, but significantly higher (15%-25%) in
unaided school. A similar disparity between the two subsystems is discernible
1.  1979 equals 1978/79.



- 41 -
in respect of educational achievements as measured by examination results. In
1978, success rates in the JCE were 90% for the Government/aided schools and 52%
for the unaided schools. In the context of the country's need for middle-level
technically qualified manpower, examination results in science and mathematics
as between the two subsystems are even more disparate (90% and 47% respec-
tively). The poor performance of the unaided schools almost certainly reflects
the lack of appropriate physical facilities and the quality of the teaching
staff, of whom a huge 63% were untrained but mostly a poorer quality intake of
students.
8.      (b)  Senior Secondary Education is offered in 15 Government/aided, and
in one unaided, secondary schools. Enrollments in the former totalled 2,480 in
1979 with a fourth year intake of 1,306, equivalent to about 34% of all junior
secondary graduates. Effectively this implies that about 24% of entrants to JSS
courses had the opportunity to continue their education through Form 5 and to
sit for the COSC examination. In terms of quality as measured by external
examination assessments, the trend appears to be downward, the pass rate drop-
ping from 80% in 1967 to 44% in 1977. This decline, however, may be
attributable in part to the broadening enrollment base in the context of a
non-localized examination system. Sitill more disturbing is the limited number
of schools submitting candidates in science and practical subjects, and the
indifferent examination results in these subjects and in mathematics:
9.      In addition, there is a serious dearth of qualified Batswana teachers,
and indeed of qualified teachers in general. Of the 570 teachers employed in
Government/aided secondary schools in 1979, 360 (62%) were expatriates; 15% of
all staff were untrained. Secondary school teachers are trained at UCB in
four-year degree, and three-year diploma courses; in 1979, only 54 and 157
students respectively were enrolled in these courses; with an estimated output
of 65 graduates. Enrollments need to be increased if the needs of the schools
and the teacher localization program are to be seriously tackled.
Vocational and Technical Education
10,     Vocational and technical education and training is administered by a
variety of government and private agencies. Technical departments of the
various ministries (e.g. Health, Telecommunications, Roads and Water Affairs)
have their own training facilities. Among the principal training institutions
are the following:
11.     The Botswana Institute of Administration and Commerce (BIAC).  Until
1980 known as the Botswana Training Center (BTC), BIAC was originally estab-
lished in 1962 as a trade school, and was later merged with the Public Works
Department Training School as the BTC,, to extend its training programs to
include commercial, secretarial office and related management courses for civil
servants. In 1974/75 it was placed under the direct control of the Directorate
of Personnel. The creation in 1974 of the UNDP/ILO-assisted National Center for
Vocational Training (NCVT), subsequently renamed the Botswana Polytechnic occa-
sioned the transfer of craft courses from BTC to the new institution. Following



- 42 -
on the recommendations of the National Commission on Education (1977), the BTC
introduced three-year Diploma courses in accountancy and, in recognition of the
enhanced level of training, the BTC was renamed BIAC in 1980. Illustrative of
the scope of BIAC training programs, courses offered in 1979/80 included.
Diploma in accountancy, organized on a block or part-time day release system
(149 students); Public Service courses in administration, supplies and clerical
duties (191 students); secretarial courses (80 students); courses for government
departments personnel (1,807 students). BIAC also conducted government and
external examinations for 542 candidates and provided facilities for 269 par-
ticipants on courses organized by other agencies. Thus a total of 3,038 stu-
dents (1,989 male, 1,049 female) benefited from BIAC training services. BIAC
has also instituted course evaluation procedures and is adjusting its programs
as may be required. UNDP/ILO is providing technical assistance, while addi-
tional physical facilities are included under the Bank Second Education Project
(Loan 1828-BT).
12.     The Botswana Polytechnic (formerly the NCVT).  Prior to 1980, the NCVT
offered two- and three-year full-time, and other short courses, in building
trades, electrical skills, mechanics and welding, only to craft and advanced
craft levels, higher training being pursued abroad. Enrollments in 1979, all
male, totalled 461, of which about 140 were full time. With the assistance of
the British Overseas Development Agency, the Government plans over the next few
years to extend the range of polytechnic courses and upgrade them to senior
craft and technician levels. New courses to be offered will include agricul-
tural engineering, craft courses for secondary school teachers, electronics and
civil and electrical engineering. The principal constraint to the development
of this program is likely to be teaching staff shortage; of the projected 55
required in 1985 half, as at present, will be expatriates.
13.     The Institute of Development Management (IDM), established in 1974 with
CIDA assistance for the training of senior management personnel in the areas of
finance, health care, personnel, and in-service teaching, it was originally an
autonomous regional institution within the then University of Botswana, Lesotho
and Swaziland. Upon the secession of Lesotho from the University, IDM became a
separate regional institution with its own Board of Governors. In 1979, enroll-
ments reached 775, in courses ranging from 1-8 weeks, for a total of 3,204
participant-weeks. Constraints in physical facilities are being partially met
under the Bank Second Education Project (Loan 1828-BT); localization of profes-
sional staff remains the chiief challenge.
14.     Youth Brigades.  Founded in 1965, the Brigades compose a network of 18
Brigade Centers which combine training at craft and artisan levels with produc-
tion activities, essentially for primary school leavers. The Brigades are
community based, autonomous, non-profit-making entities managed by local Boards
of Trustees, and originate from local initiative, with the financial and techni-
cal support of the MOE. Administratively, a number of Brigades, each catering
for separate skills, are grouped into a Brigade Center; overall coordination is
assumed by the National Brigade Coordinating Committee, under the auspices of
the MOE. In 1980, there were 18 Brigade Centers within which functioned 60



-- 43 -
Brigades. To meet the evident and growing needs for the training of Brigades
instructors and administrators, the construction of a BRIDEC was assisted under
the First Bank Education Project (Loan 1274-BT and 1275-T-BT). The construction
of BRIDEC is virually complete and in 1980, 22 courses were mounted, of between
2-48 weeks duration, in teacher/instructor training, leadership and management,
cost estimating, accountancy and drafting, for a total of 281 trainees.
15.     The principal problems encountered relate to (a) the high costs of
training; (b) the quality of training programs; and (c) the limited coverage of
Brigade activities in relation to perceived training needs. As regards (a), of
the 2,499 persons directly engaged in Brigade activities in 1979, only 1,282
(51%) were actual trainees, while 352 (14%) were Brigade staff and the
remainder, 865 (35%), were locally recruited labor. Thus while it will be
evident that local employment opportunities are being created by the Brigades,
the trainee/staff ratio appears disproportionately low (less than 4:1). With
respect to (b), the quality of training remains suspect, given the inordinate
amount of time (80%) devoted to production activities, and the variable quality
of the trainers. Finally, in relation to (c), it is apparent that the impact of
Brigade training programs on training needs, specifically in the area of
agriculture, is minimal.  The Government is well apprised of this specific area
of uncertainty, and is currently evaluating a progress report (Discussion Paper)
prepared by the Planning Unit of the MOE, as a preliminary to determining future
policy in regard to the Brigades.
16.     The Botswana Agricultural College (BAC) offers two and three year cer-
tificate courses in farming and animal husbandry. In 1979, there were 165
students enrolled, 31 (19%) of them women. Of the 31 staff, 9 (29%) were
non-Batswana; the low student/teacher ratio (5:1) is apparent. The Agricultural
Extension Service, through a network of four training centers, offers direct
training to farmers. Coverage, however, is only about 15% of the client popula-
tion, and even with the complementary training programs of the agricultural
brigades there is a significant shortfall in training provision. The Government
is not disposed to encourage the expansion of the brigades until the results of
the evaluation study are known (para. 15).
17.     The National Health Institute (NHI).  A dependency of MOH, the NHI
affords training for enrolled and registered nurses at training schools attached
to five government and three mission hospitals. Enrollment data for 1979 is as
follows: Students 568 (518 women); teaching staff 48, of whom 42 are female and
18 are non-Batswana.



- 44 -
ligher Educ-tic'n
18.     The UCB offers four-year degree courses in Humanities, Science, Educa-
tion and Economic and Social Studies;(3) three-year diploma courses in Educa-
tion, and shorter certificate/diploma programs in Statistics and Librarianship.
In 1979, total enrollments reached 865, of whom 672 were Batswana (479 in
degree, and 193 in other courses). A further 300 Batswana were studying abroad.
The present constituent college arrangements between Botswana and Swaziland are
expected to end by 1985, and plans are in progress to upgrade the Botswana
College to full university status. Additional courses at the Gaborone campus
are also scheduled for introduction during the NDPV. Staffing is once again the
principal constraint: 12 teaching posts remain unfilled, while 90 (70%) of the
faculty are expatriates.
Non-Formal Education
19.     Non-formal education is provided by a host of Government and other
agencies. Notable among these are the MOA (extension services and radio
programs for farmers); the Department of Community Development (literacy cour-
ses, youth clubs, VDC); MOH (health education related to schools meals programs
and the World Food project); the Institute of Adult Education of the UCB; the
Red Cross, the Botswana Council of Women and the YWCA (health and instructional
programs).
20.     Prior to 1978, the MOE-s participation in non-formal education consisted
largely of correspondence courses leading to the JCE and the GCE administered
through the BEG. The incorporation of BEC into a newly established DNFE in 1978
coincided with a pronounced emphasis on education and training opportunities
in educationally deprived areas, for the development of which a network of
District Adult Education Officers is planned. A related development is the
inclusion in the First Bank Education Project (Loan 1274-BT and 1275-T-BT) of
an adult education component within the Matsha Community College located in the
disadvantaged Western region of Botswana.
t
3. The Education Course is being phased out and is being replaced by a one-year
post-graduate diploma course in Education, planned to start in 1984.



- 45 -
ANNEX 3
BOTSWANA
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
Government Guidelines :Eor Primary School Development
1.   Guidelines for Adding Facilities to Existing Schools:
Where a Council decides that its development program
should concentrate mainly on adding facilities to existing
schools, the Government sets the following guidelines:
(a)  The first priority should be given to providing classrooms
for classes presently taught in the open air. This should
take precedence over, for example, the elimination of
double shifts.
(b)  Classrooms should be built to accommodate forty five pupils,
and classes with more than forty five pupils should be split,
if necessary by teaching two groups under a shift system.
(c)  Where enrollments are low and classes are small, classes
should be combined for teaching purposes. The following
are guidelines which cannot always be applied exactly:
(i) any class with twenty or more pupils should be taught
separately; (ii) two classes with a combined enrollment of
thirty five or fewer pupils should be combined into one
group for teaching purposes. (Example: A school has the
following enrollments by Standards: I - 25; II - 20;
III - 18; IV - 15; V - 13; VI - 12; VII - 21. Standards III
and IV should be combined for teaching purposes, and so
should Standards V and VI. A total of five classrooms should
be provided.) However, these guidelines should be flexibly
interpreted. If the Council foresees a rapid increase of
enrollments at a school which has small classes at present,
it might be economic to build seven classrooms in anticipa-
tion of future needs.
(d)  As enrollments at existing primary school increase, it is
suggested that Councils should consider carefully the
alternatives of: (i) adding to existing facilities, or
(ii) opening new schools. The Government takes the view
that once a school has reached two or three streams (600
to 1,000 pupils), it is often preferable to allow for
further expansion by building a new school.
2.   Guidelines for Location of New Primary Schools:
Where a District Council decides that its development program
should include the establishment of new primary schools, the Govern-
ment sets the following guidelines:



- 46 -
(a) It is reasonable to expect young children to walk up to 5 km.
to school; older children may perhaps be expected to walk
further than this.
(b) A total population (all ages) of about 1,000 or more within
walking distance of the proposed site would justify a primary
school with an annual intake into Standard I. A total
population of about 500 to 1,000 would justify a school with
an intake into Standard I every other year. Almost without
exception primary schools in Botswana accept an annual intake
into Standard I, but the Government urges Councils to consider
alternatives in order to make provision for small communities.
(c) For the location of new primary schools, the Government also
suggests that Councils should take full account of any infor-
mation relevant to the future development of the area, such as
land use plans, plans to provide water and other facilities
needed by schools, and road developments.
(d) The Government urges Councils to keep a close watch on the
establishment of new unaided primary schools. The siting of
unaided schools has often in the past been haphazard, and this
has led to problems for Councils when requests have been made
for them to be taken over. In particular, Councils are urged
to discouraged sponsors (including missions) from siting schools
too close together. Through the requirement that all unaided
schools must be registered, the Government has the means to
regulate their location, so Councils may wish to advise the
Government when they consider proposed sites to be inappropriate.
3.   Guidelines for Taking Over Unaided Primary Schools
Where a Council decides that its development program should
include the take-over of some unaided primary schools, the Government
sets the following guidelines:
(a) Those schools which have buildings, furniture and equipment
might be given high priority on the grounds that they have
already demonstrated a need for primary education for their
children.
(b)  Priority might also be given to unaided schools serving areas
with substantial populations (see 2(b) above) where there are
no Council primary schools.
(c) Priority might also be given to unaided schools employing
qualified teachers.
(d) Councils should note that mission-sponsored schools often
prefer to be aided rather than to be fully taken over.
4.   Equity
The MLGL would continuously monitor the distribution of funds to
ensure that each district would receive its share on an equity basis
to maintain a national average of primary classroom facilities.



- 47 -
RIPSILTY~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Nk DYIIT5AI
R UBLIC OF BOTSWANA
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
1151Y INDTCATOOD 1011 PRO25711 iMP1LlSMENTATIO
Component                        Objentives                             Project Situation                          Project Target                               Approach and Masoreonett                                 Progress                Deciendatiots
Primary Cla.sroor.  and     1.  To assist. te tiover-acnt in      1. rn 1980, there were 2,838 classrooms                     Position                        Year                         Method                        Ibsitio         Yher
Relatcd FPcilities              the pr-visio- of class-              for 4,683  classes.  Only the dse of
roomsa,                              double ahiftiog open air classes and        l.  Build sbout 500 sla:srol992-186                         1.  Ovell  espo.  bhility
2.  To sopoly froIttre for the           overoroewdlg permite the oyster th              iocludng staff housing,                                      he vested is the Minty
50.0 claneroors alog  i[h            function.                                       offocma  atoreroomas. sohiog                                 of toa enoeroet and
nctllury fa-ilitlea,.                                                                sd alotion areasLad  who  hi  delgegat
repenaihbility for detaIled
itspleMeesathi no" Botawaa' 
rise DletretnCocis
Provhsiol  of Primary       I.  To prs-ide a modest somber        1. Shortage of bookh  is soae rural areas.   1.  Prosi:o   of a foor yfar                 1932_-195         1.  Ministry of Education sill
Sehool Teatbooks                of te-tbhoks  to primary          2. Ge-ecneolt unable to sopply bo-k  in            sopply of books to s-pple-                                   be    ponible fo  the
stodente is  ore esieots             adeqoata qantties, therefore thi                ment Gov-rtnt progr.                                         seten of approprIate
soh as nathematilc, English,         item will preside for a_sel -taoe.                                                                           teotbooks.  Diatsibhtioo
and  se.-ana.                                                                                                                                     by tlh  MIsoL Uai,i e-tablaShed
2. To improwe stude-t aehie-e  t                                                                                                                      ohusocle througi the District
by ose If books, thu  improv-                                                                                                                     Coonsilo.
ion the quality of eduosios.
Primary Teacher             1. To provide for a see primacy    1. The scaber of osquatifiid teanh-e              1.  -oesasa namer of qualified             1982-1985
Training College                t-caher tr-ninig  -Illege.           in primary s-hools in 1980 is aboot             priasry scho-T teachers in
2.  Pr-visio- of f-roit-re sod           36% of the total stock.                         order to provide ahout 600
eqoip-ct.                            There Is s ehertge of a-ilbhic                  uradoatee P.a..
traised tQeahers to cater to the
expansio- in pnimery level edl-atio-.                                                 1992-1985
Technical A.istean.e        1. TY  stre-gthen the District        1. Shortage of qdolified Batswana              1.  knable three experienced               1982-1985
Councils and tie Ministry            aco --taoho at thie Distriot level.            seo-nctasts to train counter-
of locel Go--ernoens and                                                             parts in the field of asous-
Lands itl coat content,                                                              tansy.  VThe traoiil in
a-c-tnse"ny. and bhekkeepiog                                                         urgently req,ired itt ord-r
through the pmnvisl-n of                                                             to impleenet the primary
niae ean years of sipecalist                                                         school ces-tr-tion coopo-ent
services .                        2.  Cvrrent pr iJect dir:ctor provld d             under the Minietry of Local
T.C  a-e,e  the Pr-Jest Coil        2. io-rent project directoWr pr-slade              Govermet ad lance,
to nonrtioe operations ontil         by DANIrA and oentrast does sot            2.  Proet detr nedd.                       192     6
the  -ospletien of the third         extend th-wogh full impleaentetir                                     e
prTejnt through the prorleiso        period of project.
of sine oar .snths of
technical asseitanee.
Monsitoring and kvcalu-     L. The Planning USit of the           1. Studies src underoay and aces               1. To provide itfo-emtion is
tion Stodies                    Min,Istry of Tducation in            preliicary findings have been                  order to avahuate the oitrom
-seper-ti-o  with the Crntral        poblished by the Central                        of previso-  B:ak in-estmente
Statistics Unit is arryins           Statistics Unit.                                in primary. tow:r -ecosiary,
sot tracer studiea  for priaary                                                     and rural ed.octio- trainiog.
iseasat leavers, Form YIII ano
V teasers and footh Brigedes
leawre.  During the life of
the projret the bsrk would be
presided ead as  pprpriate
e-ies resuts of these
studies,             eP
2,  Semi aterua reporto on imple-
sentation progress will be
-ubhitted to the Bank for
ren'ew within tee rontho
after the periods ending
March 31 and Septeeber 30.
3.  Not later than fivs aoathe
after the Project ClI-ing Date
the Pr,lect Iaple-entation
USit with a-itet-ca from the
Misietry of Eduoati- ad the
Ministry 01Lo. icc  --ioarmat
and  ade will p r  ide the BGk
DrooP with a rpert evlnating
the emecotien, initial opera-
tiaoes. ects and benefits of
the proJeot inolding  eess
learced daring project
iapleae_nattie.



- 48 -
ANNEX 5
REPUBLIC OF BOTSWANA
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
SELECTED DOCUMENTS AND DATA AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT FILE
A.        Reports and Studies Related to the Project
A.1  The Official Request Document.
A.2  Request for Assistance to Primary School Construction
and Furniture.
A.3  The Proposed Fourth Primary Teacher Training College.
A.4  Primary School Construction Needs.
A.5  Primary School Teachers:  Forecasts of Teacher Requirements
and Trained Teachers Available.
A.6  The Location of Primary School Facilities.
A.7  Study of Rural Building Development in Botswana, June 1978.
A.8  District Planning Handbook.
A.9  Laws of Botswana, Local Government (District Councils).
A.10 Primary Schools Supplies Catalogue, 1979.
A.ll (1982) Primary Schools Supplies Requisition Forms, 1981.
B.        Reports and Studies Related to Education and Manpower
B.1 The National Development Plan 1979-85.
B.2 Education Student Costs.
B.3  Education Sector Development Expenditure.
B.4 A Study of the Manpower and Training Needs of the Unified
Local Government Service 1982-1992, Vols. 1 and 2, 1981.
C.        Selected Working Papers
C.1 Architectural and Education Working Papers.



f
*                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
r



, < , ,//- | | ~~~~~~~~THIRD EDUCATI1ON PR OJE CT
71~~~~ qoe5X\(   t/Hl r Tz 1C1
0   ;g     _    M PA >olUl _  v;41 
\   1  / 4 r K A V A Pl G O   ¢>,                                               t  tfi                                        l   l ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-~~~ Ju-r>;  i11T
j                                                                                0  4   0   0; 0   1   D    .E    L  T   A t * , 9 7 Poill. iJ .oE i, ........ , . S x vvi su/l d d.~~-I
o                                                                                                            PA r rr _.y
t-  r u j/ \ 6~~L 441 120 -4-5-                                                                                j p-Etn LmA  
;,    <    \ /              ~K    A   WL                  A          H    A              R         lo89plpzMe3-~> 
|:  i; 0::: \  ( \    \D                                 S         E         R          T,                                                  a'        -     f M         9 C
0 ( ;0 0:;: ;0 l _ ) ,\ _ 4i V 00 Q 5 -A3N5  Jq 01                                                                                                                                                      C
L  '  Wt\                          IsA                                        '                                                V i'                                   !¢ I ¢  iM ,,2we   \4il,  Y
L ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~ - _   L t                                  fd  f  



