Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 10635-VE
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
VENEZUELA
JUDICIAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
JULY 15, 1992
Public Sector Management Division
Technical Department/Country Department I
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



_,' L1~RE.NCY   QUVALENTS
Currency Uinit: Bolivares (Bs)
US$ I = Bs 62 (April, 1992)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
M 1etri System
1 meter nn)                             3.28 feet (rt.)
I kimoreter (kmn.)                      0.62 mile (mi.)
I sqluare lilonleter ('tni              0.386 square mile (sq. mi.)
I nmetric toil (m. (on)         -       1.1 US short ton (sh  ton)
I liter (iL)                            0.264178 US gallon (gal.)
F!SCAT.  P rAR
I  'tO,)eceiiber 31
AI3B  ~Vi, 10 £A4)\  ACRONYMNS
CAt.2                           Chlief    .i  tr; ,ke Officer
f-     "-Vi         -       Cons jo Nal:ioi;al dde Prumocion de Inversiones
Ti "Xi                        Co-,,n,-,G-  Con-igre-so cJ( li kepuhlica
-   ;s.S ICotnsejo de la judic4itura
O t'()t  i                    Coinision Uresiden(ial para la Reforma del E.stado
..9XTh I           -       M\iinisfer'o de Coordinacion y Planiflcacion de la Presidencia de la
I               \       -       li^to   du N,rit,neS de V'enezuela
; K                t            GroF, D)o[stii'c  t otsduct
,-,.    G     -errim t  f V'eneela.Ut
Ic                              Inertlatioiial CompelitiNe Bidding
It:.t                   -       ln,tLituto de Lsbjdins Superiores de Administracion
fiistit't. Venezolano die Planiflcacion
Judicial C(ounfcil
Lut ^         I}LocaIl Cot,ppulitive Bidding
N:k- Pt ~.9Ministerio de Desarrollo Urbano
k tS ciJ, Ir. 4Oficina Cettical de Pre..upuesto
Operations Lv4ua.iatiwn Department
V;a                   °       Projtct AdiNkorv Commission
Projlo il1Iplemen!ation Uiiii.
ttrtututal a! ,djustivent Loan
sf -1 -                         Stateinrnt  o1 Fxpt-uiitures
; t, is of Refet-enice
t -. s                          lLUnkersidad Nac,tonal Ahierta



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
VE,NEZUELA
,"ICIAL INFRASTRUCTURE IRQJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMAIARY                                                                             Page No.
I. THE S1UDICIAA, SECTOR .1......................................  -
A. The Mlacro-Economic Environnment   ..............................                                   I -1-
B. The Judicial Sector  .         .........................................                               -
C. Judicial Administration   .......................................                                      -
Judicial Council  .        .........................................                              -
Court Administration   .            .....................................                         -
Judicial Pensonnel: Selection, Compensation, and Training   .                   ..........  - 10 -
Physical Infrastructure   ..........                .........................    -13 -
D. Lessons Learned from  Bank Lending Experience   ....................-. 15 -
E. Rationale for Bank Involvement ................................    -16 -
II. THE  PROJECT  . ...........................................   -16-
A. Project Objectives .          ........................................   - 16 -
B. Project Description . ........................................ - 16 -
C. Project Cost and Financing  ...................................    - 20 -
D. Project Benefits and Risks  .                       ...................................  20 -
HI. PROJECT  IMPLEMENTATION   ............................. -. 20-
A. Agencies Involved . ......................................... - 20 -
B. Project Monitoring  .           ....................................... - -21-
C. Procurement  .         ...........................................   - 23 -
D. Disbursement and Special Account ..............................    -23 -
E. Accounting and Audits .              ..................................... - -24 -
IV. AGREENENTS REACHED AND RECONMENDATIONS ....-...... 24 -
This report is based on the findings of a preparation mission in January 1992 and an appraisal
mission in April 1992 comprised of Messrs. Donald Winkler (Mission Leader), Waleed Haider Malik,
Luis Jose Mlejia (LATPS), and Messrs. Jesse Casaus, Jaime Giraldo Angel, Robert Page, William
Dav;s, Oscar Flores (Consultants). Jose Andreu (LA4HR), Coralie Bryant (AFTIM), and Heywood
Fleisig (LACCE) acted as peer reviewers. The Department Director, Project Advisor, and Sector
Division Chief were Messrs. Armeane Choksi, Vahram Nercissiantz and Shahid Chau-'ary,
respectively.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance    |
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ANNEXES
T 'TLE OF C2ONTENTS
1. Project Description: The Judicial Council ...............................   - 28 -
2. Project Description: Modernization of Courtroom  Administration ................-. 30 -
3. Project Description: Judicial School ..................................    - 34 -
4. Project Description: Physical Infrastructure  .............................   - 35 -
5. Project Description: Project Implementation Unit .......................... -. 38-
6. Project Activity Matrix  ..........................................    - 42 -
7. Project Performance 1-idicators  ....          ....  ............................    - 47 -
8. Agenda and Criteria for Mid-Term  Review  ...............................- 49 -
9. Action Plan: Institutional Development of the Judicial Council  .................-. 51 -
10. Action Plan: Modernization of Courtroom  Administration  .................... -. 54 -
11. Action Plan: Institutional Development of the Judicial School ..........                 ... .-. 56 -
12. Bank Financing    ........................                     ........................   - 58 -
13. Court Performance Indicators                  ..........................- -59 -
14. Eva;uation Methodology for the Pilots ...................- .61 -
15. Terms of Reference:  Study of the Required Recurrent Outlays of the Courts ...                  ......  . 64 -
16. Terms of Reference:  Study of Salaries of Judicial Personnel ...... ..                   ...........   . 66 -
17. Terms of Reference: Project Manager                  ........................-. 69 -
18. Terms of Reference: Project Component Manager .........                    ..       ..............   . 71 -
19. Local Bidding Procedures: Court Construction and Rehabilitation ..... ..                    .........  . 72 -



VENEZUELA
JUDICIAL INFRASTRUCT-URE PROJECT (JIP)
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMArRY
Borrower:             Republica de Venezuela
Beneficiary:          Consejo de la Judicatura (The Judicial Council)
Amount:               US$30.0 million equivalent
Terms:                Fifteen years including a five-year grace period, at the Bank's standard
variable interest rate.
Project
Objectives:          The project aims to improve Venezuela's enabling environment for private
sector development and reduce both the private and social costs of justice. It
would: (a) improve efficiency in the allocation of resources within the
judiciary; (b) increase courtroom prodt'ctivity and efficiency; and (c) reduce
the private sector costs of dispute resolution.
Pro-eect
DescriDtion:         To achieve these objectives the project would support institutional
development of the courts and of the Judicial Council, which is responsible for
overall court administration, as follows:  (a) strengthen the planning,
budgeting, and management capacity of the Judicial Council, including the
design and implementation of an information system to provide quantifiable
performance indicators (US$5.3 million); (b) improve courtroom productivity
and efficiency through reorganization and streamlining courtroom
administrative procedures, including automation of caseload and courtroom
management (US$19.7 million); (c) strengthen the administrative capacity and
specialized legal knowledge of court personnel, including knowledge pertinent
to commercial and business litigation, by strengthening the capacity of the
Judicial School to design and deliver training (US$5.3 million); and (d)
rehabilitate existing and construct new courtroom facilities (US$25.4 million).
Benefits and Risks:   The project is expected to increase courtroom productivity and efficiency and,
thereby, reduce the private sector and individual costs of dispute resolution.
The major risks stem from the level of available budgetary resources, lack of
managerial capacity, change in policy direction to the project by the Judicial
Council, and possible lack of cooperation on the part of judges responsible for
implementation at the courtroom level. The budgetary risks would be
mitigated by Government agreement to a long-term investment and
expenditure program for institutional development of the courts, which would
be monitored under the Project. Future savings in personnel costs resulting
from automation would also reduce budgetary pressures.  The lack of
managerial capacity on the part of the Judicial Council and the courts would
be mitigated by the project's institutional strengthening programs and through
development of a strong project implementation unit. Possible change in the
Judicial Council's policy direction to the project is minimized by the long-term
appointments of Council members, who uniformly give strong support to the



project. The cooperation of judges will be sought through training and a
phased implementation plan, which will demonstrate the gains to court
personnel from administrative reorganization and automation.
Estimated Project Cost:
Local ForWign Total
- (US$ Million) -----
I. Administration of Judicial Council            3.0      2.3    5 3
II. Courtroom Administration                     2.0    17.7   19.7
III. Judicial Training                           2.0      3.3    5.3
IV. Physical Infrastructure                      25.4    0.0   25.4
Project Implementation Unit                      2.3      0.3    2.6
Price Contingency (10%)                          0.0      1.7    1.7
Total Project Costs                              34.7    25.3   60.0
Financing Plan
Local  Foreign Total
---- (US$ Million) ----
Government                                      30.0    0.0   30.0
IBRD                                             4.7    25.3  30.0
T otal                                          34.7    25.3  60.0
Estimated Disbursement
FY93   FY94-95   FY96-97
----- (in US$ Million) -----
Annual                                                 3.5      10.5       16.0
Cumulative                                             3.5*     14.0      30.0
* Includes retroactive financing of US$1.5 million between July 1, 1992, and date of Signature.



I. TIIE.I ICIAL SECTOR
A. The Macro-Economic Environment
1.1    Since President Carlos Andres Perez took office in February 1989, his Government has pursued
fund. nentally new economic policies in order to resolve the economic crisis corfronting the nation. The
crisis was ti;. direct result of inappropriate economic policies followed by the Government of Venezuela
(GOV) during the previous 15 years. These policies included investment in inefficient state-owned
enterprises, inward-oriented economic policies with high protective tariffs, neglect of infrastructure
maintenance, price controls, and poorly targeted programs to ameliorate poverty.
1.2   In 1989 the new government immediately initiated a sweeping program of reforms not only to
correct the crisis at hand, but to redefine the role of the state. The essential aim of this radical, but long
overdue, economic reform and restructuring program was to reduce the elaborate regulatory framework
and complex, costly subsidies which pervaded the economy. Simultaneously, private sector activity and
investment was encouraged through tra. - reforms, financial sector reforms, the establishment of a
favorable investment climate, and the establishment of integrated and well-targeted social programs.
1.3    Specific changes included: replacing the mrultiple exchange rate system by a unified market
determined exchange rate system (under which the bolivar immediately depreciated to about Bs 36 per
US$1.00, compared to the previous off icial rate of Bs 14 per US$1.00); rationalizing and liberalizing the
trade regime, by reducing tariffs and the coverage of quantitative restrictions, and eliminating
exonerations of tariffs; allowing most interest rates to be determined by market forces, which led to a
substantial increase in deposits and most lending rates; increasing the prices for petroleum products in
the domestic market and for most public utilities; dismantling most of the domestic price control system;
and curtailing fiscal expenditures.
1.4    The economic program reduced major imbalances in less than a year. The overall deficit of the
consolidated, non-financial public sector declined from 9.4 percent of GDP in 1988 to 1.4 percent in
1989. External performance was also strong: the current account balance shifted from a deficit of ten
percent of GDP in 1988 to a surplus of five percent in 1989. This surplus was the result of a 25 percent
increase in oil prices, a one-time surge of 47 percent in non-oil exports (due to the domestic recession,
the strong bolivar, and tie 30 percent export subsidy) and a 39 percent decline in imports (due to the
devaluation of the bolivar and recession).
1.5    The short-run cost of correcting these imbalances has been high. In 1989, GDP declined by 8.6
percent, and investment by 53 percent. GDP per capita fell from US$3,230 in 1988 to US$2,450 in 1989.
This was the result of: (1) reduction in the fiscal deficit; (2) reduction in inventories, which had
increased in 1988 in anticipation of devaluation and decontrol of prices; (3) significant real devaluation
and major increases in prices of raw materials; and (4) the sluggish response of private sector investment
to the new policy environment.
1.6    The costs of adjustment fell unevenly on the population. The high costs of the reform measures
in terms of slower growth and higher inflation have caused shifts in real income among the various
groups of society with the severest impacts on the poorest groups. The contractionary policies followed
by the GOV during the stabilization period have caused economic dislocation and high unemployment.
1 7    Tne Bank's Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL) and Trade Policy Loan, approved by the Board
in June 1989, have directly supported the GOV's economic reform program. These were the first two
Bank loans for Venezuela since 1974, and represent the start of a new assistance program. Three loans
were approved in FY90: a Financial Sector Loan, a Public Enterprise Reform Loan and a Technical



- 2 -
Assistance for Prenvestment Loan. In FY91 the Bank approved a Social Development Project. Having
completed significant steps toward a macroeconomic policy environment supportive of sustainable growth,
the GOV is now turning its attention to the sectoral, institutional, and legal reforms necessary to support
the supply response to the macroeconomic adjustment program. The proposed Judicial Infrastructure
Project will significantly contribute to macroeconomnic adjustment and improvement in the private sector
enabling environment by reriioving obstacles to the enforcement of legal reforms, especially contractual
obligations.
B. The Judicial Sector
An Overview
1.8    The Venezuelan judiciary lacks both public credibility and efficiency. A recent public opinion
poll found only 7 percent of - , population have confidence in the highest court of the land, the Supreme
Court.  Newspapers publish stories regarding corruption and political influence, appearances of
impropriety and delays in the judicial system. This crisis is in part the result of a lack of political will
on the part of political leaders to address growing problems in the judiciary. Only recently have the
major political parties and their members in the executive and legislative branches of Government reached
consensus on the need for and direction of reform efforts. There now appears to be a broad consensus
in both Government and the private sector regarding judicial problems and the urgent need for their
solution.
1.9    F^-ir institutions comprise the
Venezuelan judicial sector: the Supreme
Court, the Attorney General (Fiscalia
General de la Republica', the Ministry of            GOVERNANCE OF THE COURTS
Justice (Ministerio de Justicia), and the
Judicial Council. The Supreme Court is
the court of last appeal. The Attorney          S                            JUDICIAL
General provides opinions to the courts       wURT                           CC^7I]
regarding the prosecution of penal cases
and acts as public ombudsman to bring to
the  attention  of  proper  authorities
misconduct  of  public  employees
(including judges), violations of the     |                             I
Constitutional  or  human  rights  of
prisoners, and failure of courts to comply
with  legal  requirements  regarding                    TRl.% COURS
processing and disposition of cases. The                  C35 _           ..............i
Ministry of Justice manages the prisons
and  national police force, which  is                      l
responsible for formally filing complaints           DISTRICT & DEPT. RTS
with the penal courts.  The Judicial                      C2I
Council is responsible for administering
the system  of 1085 courts, including
selecting and training judges, monitoring           1NCPA 6 PA L COURS               ...
court performance,  and  undertaking        [I                IO
disciplinary  proceedings  for  court
personnel; it enjoys significant autonomy
to undertake organizational or
administrative measures to improve court Box 1
performance  and  is  the  principle
beneficiary of this project.



- 3 -
1.10    In addition to the Supreme Court (Corte Suprema de Ji;sticia) with its fifteen magistrates serving
nine year terms, Venezuela has 1085 lower level courts, 14 percent being superior or appeal courts
(tribunales de segunda instancia), 32 percent being trial courts (tribunales de primera instancia), and the
remaining 54 percent being district and municipal courts (see Box 1). The trial and appeal courts are
almost equally divided between those dealing with civil (46 percent) and penal (54 percent) matters.
Fully 20 percent of all courts are located in Caracas alone, and 60 percent of all courts are located in
major urban areas.
ACCLMULAT ION OF COURT CASES
C BACKLOGS)
TI1OUSAINS
100   -  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
80,  - __ _ _ _
40    -                       -      -
20
1984  1995  '198   1987  1988   1989   1990
So_rc.: The Judicial Council
=ox 2
JUDICIAL ADMINISTRATION BUDGET AS
PERCENTAGE OF TOTAL NATIONAL BUDGET
PERCIP,TAGE
3.5
3
1.5
0.:   . 1
59-63       69-73       79-83       89-92
51-58       64-68       747          4-88
Soiree: The Ju I c IalI Co.ncIil
Box 3



4-
1.11   While Government expenditures on the courts has continued to increase in real terms over the
past two decades, it has not kept pace with demand . While the number of judges increased 24 percent
between 1971 and 1991, the ratio of judges to population decreased by 29 percent. Furthermore, despite
increasing productivity (cases per court) among both civil and penal courts, increased demand for court
services has led to dramatic increases in time to resolve cases and a growing backlog. The backlog at
the trial court level has increased by a factor of fiv, (Box 2) over a five year period, with the time to
process a civil case averaging 783 working days, 4.4 times the legal requirement, and the time to process
a penal case averaging 1136 working days, 10.4 times the legal requirement.
1.12   These figures reflect a variety of causes, discussed in more detail below. Ore important cause
is the decreasing share of the Government budget (Box 3) allocated to the judiciary. Judicial spending
in Venezuela would appear low both in absolute and relative terms (e.g., Costa Rica allocates six percent
of its budget to its judicial sector compared to Venezuela's one percent). Consequences of the failure to
adequately invest in the judiciary and, especially, the civil and penal courts include insufficient supplies,
trainirng, facilities and legal and legislative information to court personnel; the number of staff is adequate
and could be reduced through automation.
1.13   The result has been delays .d backlogs which have reduced public credibility in the courts,
increased resolution of disputes through other means, and increased recognition on the part of the
Government that both reforms and additional resources are required; arbitration of commercial dispute
is costly (8 percent of settlements), confined to large disputes, and seldom used. Reform efforts have
been led by the Commission to Reform the State (COPRE) and have primarily focused on means to
reduce political influence in the courts through changes in appointment procedures and longer office
terms.  Con"ress is currently considering this proposal as well as a proposed comprehensive
Constitutional reform, which includes the appointment of a Magistrate's Council to develop lists of
qualified candidates for Supreme Court appointments, an attempt to depoliticize such appointments.
Reform efforts received added impetus from the February 1992 coup attempt, which focused attention
on issues of corruption, including alleged corruption in the judiciary.
1.14   The Venezuelan judiciary is in crisis. The penal and civil courts are encountering serious case
backlogs, procedural congestion, and judicial delays with the resulting effect of inefficient, costly and
detrimental delivery of judicial services. These delays contribute to the appearance of impropriety and
public perceptions that the courts are unresponsive, corrupt, and politically-influenced. The lack of proper
court administration is reflected in archaic procedures, inadequate control mechanisms, duplication of
effort, poor records management, weak administrative and logistical support to the judges and inadequate
judicial statistics which fail to provide a complete picture of the problems and are of little use for
improved court management and planning.
Economic Consequences
1.15   An efficient and effective court system is essential to protect property rights and guarantee
recourse to effective dispute settlement. The efficiency of courts has wide-ranging implications for the
calculation of risk in doing business, securing assets, collecting payments due, protecting private
property, gaining access to information, and enforcing contracts. Judicial inefficiency reduces fairness,
is costly, and negatively effects economic growth by raising the transaction costs of doing business. In
particular, financial institutions need to have effective means to enforce their rights, protect assets, and
recover bad debts. Two positive outcomes of improved judicial administration are increased equity in
access to credit, and increased potuntial collateral which may lead to larger economic investment.
1.16 The judicial process is necessary for upholding business contracts and bank loans. If contracts
are not easily enforceable, they hold no real value and the transaction costs of doing business are raised
because businesses will have to seek alternative contractual arrangements, including reliance on personal



-5.
relationships, which may restrict competition and increase factor costs. A slcw.judicial system increaseg
the costs of litigation, with far reaching consequences foi busiiiess and economic development.
1.17   When the judicial processes for repossessing collateral are- slow, the value of assets with shorter
economic lives for collateral i.; limited. As a result banks often only accept urban real estate rather than
other assets as collateral. This result not only reduces investment by limiting credit, but is also inequitable
since only land-owners can receive credit. This reinforces a system of narrowly distributed real wealth.
Private credit sources extend less credit than they would if loans could be socured with other forms of
collateral: vehicles, machinery, equipment, inventories, livestock, crops, or intellectual property rights.
No credit is available for "human wealth" because in,oume alone will not serve as collateral. Small
businesses and farmers cannot expand or increase productivity because they have no real access to credit
in the formal sector, while rates for borrowing in the irnformal sector are very high. Finally, restrictions
on collateral can deprive lenders and borrowers of t.., ue process of law, as they move outside the legal
system to make economically-efficient contracts.
1.18   Foreign investment may also be discouraged by an inefficient system of justice which imposes
high transaction costs, is unpredictable, and is difficult to understand. Investnent is attracted to
environments where the rules are clear and the transaction costs for erforcing them are low. For example,
in a recent survey, general counsels of some of the largest companies operating in Venezuela cited
judicial delays and unpredictable outcomes as major problems facing business. According to the survey
(conducted by CONAPRI, an association of private and public corporations) these conditions contribute
to a negative business environment that discourages investment.
'.19   To the eAtent the judicial system of Venezuela continues to be perceived as corrupt and fraught
with delay, the foreign investor and citizens alike are at risk. If the judicial system cannot guarantee
property rights and impartial settings to hear cases, due process under law is denied, especially for
citizens from the lowest socioeconomic strata. Timeliness ofajudicial system is closely related to justice,
for a slow judicial system is necessarily an unfair one. When the costs in terms of time and effort of
bringing a case to court are very high, those who have been wrongfully treated will not pursue legal
retribution. Others may be wrongly accused, but will have difficultly clearing their names. Some may
spend long periods in jail before sentencing is given. In addition, when systems are inefficient, those who
depend on the system for their well-being have a strong incentive to find alternative ways of doing things.
One is the use of the informal sector which tends to have high transaction costs since no laws apply, and
no guarantees exist. The other is the use of bribes to move the process faster. An efficient and fair
judicial system reduces these incentives and improves the transparency of operations.
C. judicial Administration
Judicial Council
1.20   Background.  The administration of the judicial system  of Venezuela was until 1970 the
responsibility of the Supreme Court, tht. arrangement typically found in Latin America. In that year, the
Judicial Council was created to administer all courts excepting the Supreme Court and the military courts.
The Council appoints, evaluates, and disciplines judges; employs and remunerates other court employees;
collects and processes statistics on court activity; negotiates an annual budget with the Presidential Budget
Office (OCEPRE) and the Congress; contracts for the material and supplies required by the courts; and
plans infrastructure investment in conjunction with the Ministry of Urban Development (MINDUR) ar,d
the state governments. As shown in Box 4, the Council is respor.sible for 41 percent of total judicial
resources, or US$ 93 million.



'1  In 1990 the new  magistrates of the    r
(nemncil recognized the deficiencies in the      I
i lernal procedures and  operations of 4s                   ENSTUl AJUDOICIAL StCT11
otii:es and requested the National Office of
"':'Tmino   (IVEPLAN)  to  under.ake   a
uotmiprehensive  analysis  of the  areas  to                       JtdlCIaI Cut.ll
improve the operations of the Council. The
plaii took over 18 months to develop and                                            - C-t
icquired the full participation of all levels of                                    2%
t;e  organization.  The  Council  formally
,inprk.ved the plan in December 1991. Since
ten additional administrative steps have been                        4tl
tflen by the Council such as the recruitment    l                                         J
, i zew managers to assume responsibilities for       Ley . r1ff-O 1 92
;lJminim tration, personnel, platning, and other
:'I R"es. 
Box 4
i.22   Some   of  the   administrative
C ccomplishments since December 1991 are: an initial plan for improvement was developed; a personnel
c l4ssification system was completed; a pilot automation program was developed; the position of regional
chief judges (juez rectores) was created; 32 judges were removed from office, the judicial schooi was
i eestablished; regional training programs were developed; thirty temporary judgeships % r.e created to
aisist with the reduction of delay in those courts having the most seriou: problem; and, perhaps most
iMportrntly, a process to improve the system was initiated. This sample of affirmative steps taken to
v!:iprove the system reflects the commitment of the Council to achieve real changes in the system.
..23   The Council is in a period of change and new initiatives. Almost all of the major offices are
directed by managers who are new to their positions and to the judicial sector. As a group they are well
qualified in their respective areas. The magistrates of the Cuuncil have taken several forward looking
actions such as adopting a long-term plan to decentralize operations and strengthen administrative
capacity. The confluence of an enlightened policy making body and qualified professional leaders suggest
that the Council has the institutional capacity to implement important changes and manage this important
initiative. The governing law (Ley Organica del Consejo de la Judicatura) of the Council gives it
substantial authority and responsibility to make the administrative and organizational decisions required
to irnplement reforms in court administration.
1.24      Problems. Despite recent progress, a number of important issues remain to be resolved. The
rmuraion policies of judges require improvement. Remuneration is tied to specific positions in the
civil service, with no consideration given to incomes earned by lawyers in private prac+ice. For example,
a Superior Court judge earns the same as a sector director general in the civil service but significantly
less than the partner of a major law firm. A revised remuneration policy would be especially important
if court fees, a major source of income for some -dicial personnel, were eliminated as part of the current
reform effort. Inadeguate recurrent court budgets hinder court productivity and efficiency. Budgeting
standards for supplies and maintenance need to be developed and adhered to in the annual budget
exercise. There is a lack of administrative coordination in thc Judicial Council itself, due to the tradition
of assigning each magistrate on the Council responsibility for overseeing a particular management
tunction. This problem is especially serious given the lack of continuity resulting from changes in the
five magistrates comprising the management of the Council; magistrates are appointed for a renewable
term of four years, and the Presidency rotates among the members every two years. There is excessive
rniphasis on control and inadequate emphasis on technical assistance to the courts, particularly as regards
ate work of the Council's inspectors. Their role should be altered to monitor court activities and statistics
and to trouble-shoot specific court problems.



- 7-
1.25    Administrative and policymaking decisions of the Council suffer from  weak management
information and court statistics. Information systems neea to be developed for personnel, finance,
physical infrastructure, and inspectorate and auditing functions. The single most critical need is reliable
and timely statistics on each court's workload, activity, and performance. These data and their analysis
should be collected annually and reviewed to improve the transparency and accountability of the system.
The various management functions of the Council also suffer from weak management skills, especially
at the mid-management level, and the Council lacks a training plan and program to address the problem.
Extensive training is required to improve staff skills in human resource administration, planning and
analysis, financial management and auditing, and the collection and reporting of court statistics. An
additional difficulty is the absence of norms and standards for a wide range of Council and court
activities. lTe establishmen. and dissemination of standards for personnel evaluation, purchasing,
courtroom design, legal forms, etc., is an appropriate responsibility of the Judicial Council.
1.26   The Council's administrative decentralization policy and implementing measures are still
undefined, although a judicial delegate (juez rector) was recently (January 1992) established for each of
the country's nineteen regions. To be successful, decentralization will require significant strengthening
of the regional offices. Finally, there is inadequate involvement of trial court judges in the development
of trial court related policies. The Council should :egularly appoint committees of judges to work with
Council staff to study issues and make recommendations to the plenarid. This would both inform policy
decisions and ensure their more effective acceptance and implementation.
Court Adminirtration
1.27   Legal cases in Venezuela are mostly tried through the use of written case materials; this makes
the control and management of case files extremely important. For example, the processing of a criminal
case begins with a complaint to the police, who are then responsible for formally filing charges with an
investigative judge juez de instruccion). The judge receives written testimony from plaintiffs and
defendants and sends the written findings on the case to the attorney general's (Fiscalia General) office
for an opinion as to whether charges should be pressed. The attorney general sends the case with an
accompanying opinion back to the judge for sentencing. The law establishes minimum times for each
step of case processing, but these requirements are neither monitored nor enforced consistently.
1.28   In carrying out the work of the court, each judge has a secretariat comprised of an executive
secretary (secretario), bailiff (aguacil), file clerks, and from 5-15 legal assistants (escribientes), most of
whom are law students working to gain 1-2 years experience prior to graduation. Court statistics on case
processing are unreliable, especially for civil courts. However, based on available data for 1990, the
average penal trial court receives 675 new cases per year, has three to seven thousand cases in process
with all the associatea paperwork, and reaches decisions on 120 cases. An average civil trial court
receives 3100 new cases per year, has six to nine thousand cases in process and reaches decisions on 1650
cases. The sheer magnitude of cases in the courts presents a difficult management problem, especially
when all case management is done manually.
1.29   Delays and Backlogs. Caseloads are increasing at a rapid rate among all levels and types of
courts in Venezuela, while the number of judges per capita has declined leading to a growing gap between
cases initiated and concluded (Box 5). This increasing congestion of the courts is reflected in long delays
in case processing. A review of a random sample of cases in Caracas courts found that almost all cases
exceeded legal processing time standards. In criminal cases, the courts took an average of 252 more days
to complete its investigation phase beyond tle mandated 34 days. Likewise, the court required 726 more
days to complete its actions to reach the sentencing phase beyond the mandated 68 days. In addition, the
court had not yet entered its decision in 75 percent of those cases where all investigation had been
completed. Ifn civil cases, courts took an average of 271 days in excess of the mandated time to bring



- 8 -
cases to "at issue" status (answers to complaints), an average of 125 days in excess of the mandated time
(65 days) to complete the investigative phase, and an average of 242 days in excess of the mandated time
(60 days) to reach its judgment.
PELAT ION BETWEEN CASES INITIATED
AND CASES CONCLUDED
TIHOUSANS
205
200-
150   --
so-------------- -         -        …---------
0
1984   1985   1988   1981   1988O  1989   1990
S -ic   Tb..tlCO    C- !,' 
Box 5
TOTAL CASELOAD OF TRIAL COURTS
1992-97
ThI.-s-. Of Cases Initl.td
500
400   - - - - - -
3O 
200
300 -
1992    1993    1994    1995    199S    1937
Year
EC Crsnal  ivivl I
C1.1 I an: 0lirel -
Box 6
1.30 The consequences of time delays are especially serious for individuals charged with crimes. Only
an estimated 32 percent of the 38,000 people in prison have actually been sentenced. The remainder of
those incarcerated are awaiting final adjudication. According to the Attorney General's office, about 13
percent of this total will be found innocent. A significant percentage of those people will have served the
same time in prison (or more) as if they had been formally sentenced. This condition is the result of trial
court delay, inadequate system for governance and monitoring of the system, and inadequate enforcement
of disciplinary procedures against judges who take longer than normal to decide cases.



- 9 -
1.31   Growth in the number of cases entering the courts combined with processing delays result in a
growing backlog of pending cases. The increased backlog has occurred despite the appointment of judge
assistants (jueces relatores) to help process cases, auxiliary judges (jueces accidentales) to assist in
judgements, and roving judges (jueces itinerantes) to help specifically with penal cases. As shown in
Box 6, the number of cases entering the trial courts is expected to increase from 270 thousand in 1992
to 450 thousand in 1997. As a result, the backlog of pending cases in trial courts is estimated to grow
by 36 percent to almost 150,000 cases. Alternatively, given current processing times and procedures,
an additional 800 judges would need to be employed to prevent any further increase in backlogs; under
present court organizational and administrative arrangements, this would imply an increase in the Judicial
Council budget by 75 percent or US$ 68 million.
1.32   Causes of Delays and Backlogs. In addition to the growth of entering cases, overall budget
constraints, and delays on the part of other agencies, several factors under the control of the courts
explain delays and backlogs. These factors fall into four categories: (a) poor administrative procedures,
(b) archaic office technology and inefficient court organization, (c) inadequate supplies and technical
support, (d) unacceptable case files, and (e) deteriorated and inadequate facilities.
1.33   Inefficient administrative procedures include inconsistent and disorganized case filing, failure to
monitor case processing and followup on required actions, lack of operational or administrative manuals,
lack of case summaries on the current status of cases, duplication of records, archaic filing procedures,
and non-uniform court office hours. The legal requirements of case processing should be reviewed,
operational and administrative manuals prepared, court personnel trained in new procedures, and case
monitoring and followup procedures instituted. The fact that courts can establish their own hours for
taking statements, presenting pleadings, making deposits, receiving copies of judicial actions, requesting
court notifications, reviewing files, etc., imposes inconvenience, costs, and delays on the users of the
courts. The Judicial Council should as part of the effort to establish revised and uniform administrative
procedures establish greater uniformity in office hours.
1.34   Office technology is outdated with judges and their secretariats lacking even photocopiers and
basic computers for word processing. Venezuela should follow the lead of other countries (e.g.,
Colombia, Spain, the U.S.) and introduce computers for case management; software for this purpose
could easily be developed and supported in Venezuela, or existing software packages used in other
countries (e.g., Gesius .n Spain) could be purchased for that purpose. Computerized case management
would permit court personnel and the public to quickly and easily determine case status, facilitate case
monitoring and followup, and produce the statistics required to evaluate overall court workload and
performance. In addition, the introduction of computers could substantially increase court employee
productivity and thereby permit reorganization of court offices. In particular, the Colombian experience
demonstrates that the ratio of judges to support staff can be reduced by about half through the sharing
of one common secretariat by three to six judges. Such reorganization in Venezuela could generate large
savings in personnel expenditures, which could then finance an increase in the number of judges.
1.35   Inadequate supplies and technical support reduce the productivity of court personnel. At present,
each court receives approximately US$3285 annually for basic supplies, about one-third less than the
required amount. Also, court personnel including many judges do not have access to codes, statutes, and
other legal reference material; these materials are essential to improve the quality and uniformity of
judicial decisions. The Judicial Council should also consider developing a computerized data base on
current legislation and jurisprudence, especially abstracts of decisions of the Supreme Court, which would
permit inexpensive and easy updating as well as easy access by courts with the necessary computer
technology.



- 10-
1.36   Case files are in poor condition as a result of the growth in pending cases and insufficient filing
space, both in the courts themselves and in the storage facilities of the General Archives. The courts
need to develop a storage policy to determine which cases should be kept in the courts, which sent to the
General Archives for physical storage, and which should be kept on opt cal disk by the General Archives.
The General Archives, in turn, need to invest in new technology to replace physical files with less space-
consuming alternatives.
1.37   Finally, court facilities are inadequate. The physical layout of court facilities require that long
lines of people extend into the sidewalk areas just to get into the buildings. Inside the buildings, the court
offices are small and provide only for a separate office for the judge and a small room for the files. The
executive secretary and court clerks are located in an open area which permits the attorneys, parties and
general public to gather around the work stations of these employees. This creates considerable
disorganization, noise and work interruption. The congestion makes privacy for conducting interviews,
taking statements and preparing official documents almost impossible. Furthermore, this excessive
concentration of people makes control of case files being reviewed by attorneys and parties extremely
difficult and susceptible to pilferage and destruction of the entire file or pertinent documents therein.
ludicial Personnel: Selection. Compensation. and Training
1.38. The qualifications and capacity of judicial
personnel-judges, administrators, and  public                Court Personnel 1992
defenders--is a result of pre-service training, the
personnel  selection  process,  salaries,  and    Titled
continuing or in-service training.  Pre-service
training  provides  the  requisite  legal  and      Superior Court Judges          165
administrative knowledge and includes both
university instruction and pre-service training     Trial Court Judges            358
provided by the Judicial School (Escuela de la
Judicatura). The personnel selection process is     District & Department Judges  208
the criteria and procedures for the selection of
judges and other personnel; the Judicial Career     Municipal & Parochial Judges  354
Law (Ley de Carrera Judicial), which was passed
in  1980, defines  the  selection  process  in    Non-Titled
Venezuela. The salaries paid judicial personnel
influence the number and quality of applicants for  Auxiliary Judges              200
vacancies and, also, affects the incidence of
judicial impropriety. Finally, in-service training  Itinerant Judges                50
on administrative problems, newly enacted laws,
and recent jurisprudence is important to keep the   Assistant Judges                10
knowledge of judicial personnel current; the
weakness of court-related pre-service training in   Public Defenders               151
Venezuela increases the importance of strong and
continuing in-service training.                   Total                          1496
Source: Judicial Council.
1.39   Judge Selection and Compensation.
While the 1980 Judicial Career Law established
the principles of judicial selection, the law was Box 7
not fully implemented until 1991. In principle,
all judgeships are filled through open competitions, with the restriction that each applicant have some
minimum experience practicing law and be a member in good standing of the Bar (Colegio de Abogados).



- 11 -
Applicants are evaluated on the basis of credientials, a two-hour written examination, and a foitu.
minute oral examination by the evaluation board. For a municipal judgeship, the evaluation bv J
consists of two magistrates from the Judicial Council and one superior court judge from the region of ;-.e
vacant position; for a superior court judge, the evaluation board includes two judges from the Supi
Court and one magistrate from the Judicial Council. Judges are expected to enter their career ai  a
municipal level and attain higher levels by entering and winning open competitions.
1.40 Prior to 1991, the Judicial Council appointed judges to fill court vacancies without oiti
competitions. A number of the appointed judges were given only temporary appointments, especial' st
the municipal level. As a result, currently thirty-seven percent (398) of titled judgeships (see Box '/   -
held by provisional judges (jueces provisorios). Private lawyers and the national press claim poli i KJd
affiliation has dominated other selection criteria prior to 1991. Since 1991, the Judicial Council . s
implemented a policy of open competitions to fill all court vacancies and, also, has begun the process f
holding open competitions to replace the provisional judges. Eighty competitions were held in 1991, ?-,,d
forty-four were held in the first quarter of 1992. The Council plans to hold open competitions to rep,i--e
most provisional judges by the end of 1993.
1.41   The Council has made a serious effort to increase the transparency and use of non-politic _,
objective criteria in selecting and appointing new judges. Since the magisterial membership of
Council can change every four years, the continuity of the current effort should be ensured thro
establishment of a review panel to audit judicial selection and issue public findings. The Constituti. 2-1
reforms under debate in the Congress propose a Judicial Commission which could have sX h
responsibility.
1.42   The salaries of judicial personnel are in principle set by the Judicial Council; in practicc _ie
Council is constrained in salary-setting by the budget negotiated at the executive level with the Miin s.Y
of Finance and the President's Budget Office. In recent years, judicial salaries have been pegged to K
pay of central iovernment administrators and executives (see Box 8). After several years of decline,  - I
judges' salaries increased by 75 percent between 1989 to 1991, although real pay in 1991 was stii! 2)
percent below its 1984 level. Judges' salaries are not determined through comparisons with the incorie
of private-practice lawyers of similar experience. In addition to their salary, some civil court trial jud,n-s
share revenues received from judicial fees (arancelks) with other court staff. Although judges receivi.,g
fee revenues are paid lower salaries, the result of such revenue distribution is high variance in judge-s'
salaries at the trial court level and some trial court judges earning considerably more than superior re'wt
judges. Since adequate salaries of judicial personnel are critical to attracting and retaining quali"Me
candidates and to discouraging impropriety, the Judicial Council should carry out a study to determn.ne
appropriate salary levels and agree with OCEPRE and the Ministry of Finance on the means of
implementing required changes.
1.43   Judicial Trainin,. Modern judicial systems put strong emphasis on judicial training to dex eop
appropriate specialized legal knowledge and management capacity among court personnel. So.-.ie
countries (e.g., France, Spain) have excellent schools to train future judges, and new judges are selec aed
solely from the ranks of the school's graduates. Other countries (e.g., the U.S.) which have a tradi 'on
of political appointment of judges, emphasize the training of newly appointed judges and the developm'n;t
of specialized administrative capacity among other court staff. Both types of systems attempt to dew mo
a strong sense of ethical responsibility and a professional attitude which discourages corruption. l- l
systems also emphasize the importance of contir ing education to keep judges apprised of recent  ;
developments and to provide judges less structured opportunities to exchange with one another lessolis
of experience.
1.44   Judicial training in Venezuela is the responsibility of the Judicial School (Escuela dr ia
Juidicatura), which was established under the 1980 Ley de Carrera Judicial. The Judicial School h  ( s
its mission to recruit and train future judges in legal and administrative issues and provide contiin <d



- 12 -
.Juidi l Salaries 1992
Position                                   Comparable Civil             Monthlv
Sen*gc                       -BU
(in USO)
Superior Court                           Sector Director                 1,333
General, Secretary
General
Trial Court                              Line Director,                  1,136
without Judicial Fees                    Regional Director,
Sector Director
Trial Court                              Zone Director                     894
with Judicial Fees                       Deputy Director
District                                 Division Chief                    599
Mtunicipal                               Deputy Division                  511
Chief
Public Defender                          Deputy Director                   825
Source: Consejo de la Judicatumr
Box 8
training throughout their career; it also has the responsibility (never fulfilled) to conduct research on the
judicial system. The School has a staff of ten to serve the 1200 judges and 10,000 administrative
employees of the court system.
1.45   Largely for reasons beyond its control, the Judicial School has failed in its mission. Limited
organizational capacity and meager financial and staff resources prevent the School from offering the
quality and variety of courses required to adequately train future judges. Furthermore, as noted above,
the selection of judges has in practice been carried out independently Ot ie School. As a result, few
graduates of the School have actually been selected for judgeships; these problems led the School to
abandon its training program in the mid-1980's.
1.46   The School gained a new lease on life in 1990 with a renewed mandate to educate future judges.
Resource constraints have led to the School emphasihing the short-term preparation of candidates for open
competitions; these courses typically last six weekends and are open to all qualified candidates, as
approved by the Secretary General's office in the Council. During 1992, these short-term courses are
primarily oriented to the candidates who will compete to replace provisional judges at the municipal level.
1.47   The School's orientation to pre-service training and its limited resources continue to constrain its
effectiveness in a setting where most sitting judges have no formal preparation to be judges. The School
needs to reorient its emphasis to in-service training to develop improved administrative and legal
knowledge among judges and other court personnel.
1.48   In addition to a reorientation to in-service training, the School requires significant investments
in institutional development. This investment should include the following:



- 13-
(a) Development of a curriculum for training judges and court personnel. Private bar association
members complain that many judges lack basic legal and administrative skills, suggesting the
need for re-training in these areas. A diagnostic study of training needs should be carried
out, and formal curriculums should be developed. The study should also identify additional
course material (case studies, etc.) which should be developed.
(b) A diagnostic study of training needs should also result in a list of training priorities (advised
by a committee of respected judges and other court personnel) and an annual training plan,
to be negotiated v%itl, the Planning and Budgeting Division of the Judicial Council. The
annual training plan should also anticipate regional differences in training needs and
requirements for delivering training in numerous locations; a study should be carried out to
examine the feasibility of using the distance learning facilities of the National Open
University (Universidad Nacional Abierta). T-aining of judicial personnel in the use of
modern office technology should be closely coordinated with the implementation plan for the
project, including the testing of training pilots at the same time as execution of the court
pilots in Stage I of the project.
(c) A part-time teaching faculty comprised of sitting judges should be developed through the
identification of candidates and training, including visits to exemplary training programs in
other countries.
(d) An important role for the Judicial School should be organization of regional and national
conferences of court officials and judges to promote communication and stimulate discussion
between regions and all staff levels.
(e) Given the recent reactivation of the Judicial School, there are no evaluations of the
effectiveness of training programs. Evaluation instruments should be developed and records
maintained and open to inspection by staff of the Judicial Council.
Physical Infrastructure
1.49   Overview. The physical infrastructure of Venezuela's court system managed by the Judicial
Council incluides 1085 courts, 19 regional offices, and 151 public defender offices, and a central
headquarters. As shown in Box 9, 67 percent of all courts are in urban areas, compared with 33 percent
in rural areas. Courts in relatively large urban areas are typically grouped together in the same building
whereas rural courts are widely dispersed in separate buildings.
1.50   At present, most courts (70 percent) are rented from private owners; thirty percent are located
in public buildings either owned by the Judicial Council or other governmental agencies. Rented facilities
frequently do not meet the space and logistic requirements of a courtroom and the Judicial Council's
policy is to increase the number of buildings which meet specific court i,quirements, including the
adoption of Organization Models for courts and public defender offices namely Multiple Judge Model,
Corporate Model and the Individual Model. Given present investment plans, if the number of judges
continues to increase at the 1991 rate (33 per year) rented facilities could decrease to 55 percent of total
courts by 1996.
1.51   Court facilities are generally regarded as being in poor condition, both in terms of their state of
repair and their adequacy for the functions of a court. The Council's Maintenance Division, which is
responsible for maintaining court buildings, has a 1992 budget allocation of US$0.4 million, about
US$370 per court. While no inventory or survey exists to accurately assess the building stock,
inspections of courts in major urban areas demonstrate that most courts are extremely congested and in
poor repair.



- 14 -
Distribution of Courts 1992
Classirication        Three or More      Less than      Total
Courts per     Three Courts
Building      Per Building
Urban           624              107          731
Location          Rural            30               324          354
Supe;ior          117             47            165
Type               Trial           310              48           358
Other           i76              386          562
Total                                                            1085
Box 9
1.52   Capital ExDenditure and Finance. The Government's plans for capital investment in the physical
infrastructure of the courts call for outlays of approximately US$54 million to complete construction of
604 new court offices between 1992 and 2000; this compares with outlays of US$29 million between
1986 and 1991. As shown in Box 10, 221 court offices are currently under construction and will be
completed by 1994. Highest priority has been assigned to courtroom construction in urban areas, where
court congestion is the greatest. All planned construction will be in urban areas and take the form of
multi-courtroom buildings, which will facilitate the sharing of common services by several judges and
thereby lead to reduced court operating costs.
1992- 1996 INVESTMENT PLAN
1992       1993        1994         1995         1996
Rented                    874          772         719         752          756
Owned                     362          497         583         583          612
New Construction           53           135         86           0           29
Net Growth                 33            33         33          33           33
Total Stock               1236         1269       1302        1335         1368
Percent Rented            70 .         60.1       55.2        56.3         55.2
Note: Total stock is all judicial offices including public defender offlces.
Box 10
1.53   The Judicial Council does not have a line item in the budget for court construction. Rather, it
coordinates priorities and investments with the Ministry of Urban Development (MINDUR), which is
responsible for most centLal government capital investment, and with the state governments, which



- 15 -
currently enjoy the benefits of a national policy of revenue decentralization.  Prior to 1991 state.
governments would assess their court construction requirements and, with the participation of tlhe  Council,
request MINDUR funding. Since 1991 state governments are increasingly financing court co.stiuction
under cost-sharing agreements where the Council promises to cover the operating costs of tlw completed
facility. Autonomous federal agencies finance some court construction in Caracas and the state of Z.ulia.
1.54   Problems. The dilapidated conditions and inadequate space of existing urban court facilities are
being addressed by the Government's investment plan; the lack of investment in rural courts means a high
percentage of those courts will continue to rented and be inadequate.
1.55   In addition to inadequate facilities, investment planning suffers from a lack of basic inifoimation
on p',ysical infrastructure and maintenance requirements, lack of inventory of office equipment,
inadequate capacity to analyze lease-buy options, and nonexistent models of courtroom designs for
different types of courts, including the space rr 4uirements and security needs of automated management
systems. Finally, the involvement of several actors in the construction and maintenance of buildings
requires more formal coordination of plans.
D. Lessons Learned from Bank Lending Experience
1.56   Since this is the first instance of Bank support for judicial reforms, no lessons of sectoral
experience are available. However, the Bank's extensive involvement in public sector management
projects provide several key lessons that are incorporated in the design of the project. These lessons are
derived from OED assessment of free-standing technical assistance in Africa and LAC Technical
Department evaluations of recently completed public sector management projects in Chile (2504-CH) and
Peru (2204-PE).
1.57   These lessons include: (i) TA projects should be limited in scope to permit adequate preparation,
focused implementation, and adequate supervision; (ii) Borrower commitment is essential to develop a
sense of ownership of project 'Ftivities in affected institutions, resulting in effective implementation; (iii)
there should be continuity in project management; (iv) terms of reference for key consultants and studies
should be spelled out in detail by project negotiations; and (v) there should be periodic evaluation of
projects to permit adjustments in design and implementation arrangements.
1.58   The lessons from past stand-alone TA loans have been incorporated into the project. The design
of the project has also been guided by Bank country strategy aimed at supporting the Government's
economic adjustment program, including legal reforms to strengthen the private sector enabling
environment, and strengthening public sector institutions. Thus, the project would reduce the private
sector transaction costs associated with preparing and enforcing contracts and would strengthen the
Judicial Council and improve efficiency in its resource allocation.
1.59   In addition to being consistent with country strategy and objectives, the scope of the project has
been guided by: (a) Borrower commitment to project objectives and components; and (ii) requirements
for effective project administration and supervision.  The initial impetus for this project and its
components came from the Government, and the Executive, Legislative and Judicial branches have all
taken actions which demonstrate this commitment. The Government has consistently emphasized the high
priority it attaches to rapid approval and implementation of the project, while recognizing the constraints
on processing imposed by the limited experience of the Judicial Council with project preparation
activities. Continuity in project management is ensured for the first stage of the project, with the current
President of the Judicial Council assigned continuing responsibility for Council overview of the project
beyond his normal presidential term (which ends October 1993). While there may be changes in



- 16 -
composition of the Council itself after June 1994, every attempt will be made to retain PITJ consultant
staff beyond that date.
1.60   Effective project administration and supervision requires both a limited, well-defined project scope
and detailed preparation of all project components. The scope of the project has been limited to four
well-defined components, all within the purview of the Judicial Council. The design of court office pilots
to be implemented during the first stage of the project were reviewed, and terms of reference CTOR) for
consultants and s.udies were discussed during appraisal, with TOR for key studies and consultancies
confirmed at n    ts. To facilitate supervision and admninistration, indicators of project activities and
outputs were agreed to during negotLations, including those indicators to be used for supervision.
E. Rationale for Bank Involvement
1.61   The lack of an efficient and credible judiciary is a threat to the success of the Government's
economic program to improve the enabling environment for p; ivate secfor development and is the basic
rationale for Bank involvement in the project. In addition, Venezuela lacks the expertise to correct the
problems of the judicial system, and concern with reducing public sector deficits currently constraints the
resources required to strengthen judicial operations. W'hile the f3ank has no prior experience in judicial
administration, it has developed considerable expertise in administrative strengthening and reorganization,
design of management information systems, and improvement of case management in other government
agencies. T his expertise, the perceived objectivity of the Bank in a sensitive area, and the Bank's record
of support for the Government's economic program provide the ra.ionale for the Bank's involvemeni from
the perspective of the Government. Bank support for long-term institutional development of legal
infrastructure is consistent with the Bank's broader strategy to improve economic and public sector
management.
II. THE PROJECT
A. Project Obiectives
2.1    The proposed project aims to improve Venezu .a's enabling environment for private sector
development and reduce both the private and social costs of justice. Its immediate objectives are to: (a)
improve efficiency in the allocation of resources with in the judiciary; (b) increase courtroom productivity
and efficiency; (c) strengthen the institutional capabilities of the Judicial Council to perform its functions;
(d) strengthen the institutional capabilities of the Judicial School to perform its functions; (e) strengthen
the capabilities of judicial personnel in general to perform their respective functions; and (f) improve the
physical condition of the courts.
B. Project Description
2.2    To achieve these objectives the project would carry out the following activities: (a) strengthen the
planning, budgeting, and management capacity of the Judicial Council, including increasing the
accountability of the courts through the design and implementation of an information system to provide
quantifiable performance indicators; (b) improve courtroom productivity and efficiency through changes
in court administration (management of its personnel, budget, and physical facilities), case administration
(recording, tracking, and processing case files), and automation of courtroom and caseload management;
(c) strengthen the administrative capacity and specialized legal knowledge of court personnel, including
knowledge pertinent to commercial and business litigation, by strengthening the capacity of the Judicial
School to design and deliver training; and (d) rehabilitate and construct and upgrade courtrooms. Project
preparation activities included development of a Matrix -f Key Project Activities (Annex 6) including
information on objectives, physical outputs, substantive impacts and outcomes, timing targets, and agency
counterparts. Detailed descriptions of project activities are given in Annexes 1-5.



- 17  
2.3    The project would last five years (1993 - 1997), with a comprehensive mid-term review by
December 31, 1994; the criteria for the mrid-term review are given in Annex 8. Project activity prior
to the mid-terni review would comprise the following: (a) design, testing, and evaluation of revised
administrative procedures, reorganized courts and public defender's offices, and automated management
systems in three locations, including training seminars to educate judicial personnel on the benefits of
administrative reforms and automatior.; (b) development of detailed plans for courtroom reorganization
and automated information systems for approximately half of all judicial offices; (c) provision of
reference texts on jurisprudence, procedural manuals, and basic office equipment for all courtrooms
having adequate security and electrical power; (d) training of key administrative personnel in the Judicial
Council and its regional offices, provision of essential equipment, modernization of financial management
and property management, and design of an information network to connect the Council to its regional
offices; (e) design and testing of curriculum to train judges and courtroom personnel in court
administration; (f) courtroom construction and rehabilitation; and (g) studies to complete preparation of
the second stage of the project, including analysis of procedural codes and Judicial Council directives
which may affect pilot replication. The study results, replication plans, and pilot evaluations will provide
the basis for the mid-term review of the project, which will result in agreement between the Government
and the Bank on pilot replication and further studies to be carried out in the second stage.
2.4    Activities subsequent to the mid-term review would include the following: (a) implementation
of revised administrative procedures in all courts and judicial offices; (b, installation of automated
information management systems in courtrooms which have adequate physical .nfrastructure, and training
of courtroom personnel; (c) continued training of administrative personnel of the Judicial Council and its
regional entities and installation of the information network to its regional offices; (d) establishment of
capacity in the Judicial School to plan and deliver a permanent in-service training program for judges and
courtroom personnel; (e) training of courtroom personnel in administrative and legal issues; (f) continued
courtroom construction and rehabilitation to ensure successful implementation of the project; and (g)
completior of studies, agreed tu during the mid-term review, to facilitate implementation of the project
and to prepare a possible follow-on project.
2.5    The administrative capacity of the Judicial Council will be strengthened and information for
decisionmaking will be improved through: (a) consultancies to develop a human resource development
plan for the Council, to introduce program budgeting, to develop the capacity to plan and manage
physical infrastructure, to improve capacity to provide technical assistance to the regions and individual
courts, to strengthen management capacity of the regional offices, to develop a communications network
for the regional offices, and to develop personnel, financial, and building and equipment inventory data
bases; (b) studies to develop courtroom performance indicators, to develop a long-term infrastructure
development plan, to develop recurrent budgeting and salary norms, to assess the private costs of
litigation, to assess access to justice by the poor, to assess the feasibility of improving alternative dispute
resolution methods, to assess alternatives for computerizing data bases on legislation and jurisprudence,
to analyze alternative storage policies for court records, to identify priority areas in procedural law related
to the objectives of the project and which merit further in-depth analysis, to improving court efficiency
and productivity, and other studies which may be agreed to by the Council and the Bank; (c) training and
travel to develop the adm.iinistrative and analytic capacity of Council staff, including staff in the
decentralized regional offices; and (d) office equipment and vehicles to provide a communications network
within the Council and between the Council and regional offices and to provide adequate computing and
logistical capacity both in the Council and its regional offices. To strengthen accountability in court
performance, the Council will annually publish indicators of court performance in its annual report,
Memoria y Cuenta, or a separate statistical report; depending on availability and reliability of data, the



- 18 -
performance indicators in Annex 7 should be reported. To ensure project continuity and sustainability,
the Government would appoint a high level commission to monitor and advise the project and would
before effectiveness assign the Director of Planning responsibility for coordination between Council staff.
A detailed description of this project component is given in Annex 1. TOR for the studies of recurrent
budgeting and salary norms are given in Annex 15 and 16, respectively.
2.6    Courtroom  admiiistration will be strengthened through:  (a) consultancies to prepare
administrative manuals, to prepare implementation plans for revised administrative and automation
procedures, to implement and evaluate the automated court pilots, to organize regional and national
meetings to demonstrate new court technology to court personnel, to implement revised administrative
procedures foi court management (administration of the court's personnel, budget, and space and
equipment) and case management (recording, tracking, and processing cases) to all courtrooms, to ensure
the reliable production of courtroom statistics, and to replicate automated systems in courts with adequate
physical infrastructure; (b) studies to assess the legal and regulatory framework of the courts and identify
bottlenecks, including procedural codes and Judicial Council directives, to improving court efficiency and
productivity, and to examine management of court fees and judicial deposits; (c) tra ning of court
personnel in revised and automated procedures; (d) supplies and legal material to establish minimum legal
reference materials for each court; and (e) court and office equipment (photocopiers, typewriters., basic
computers for word processing), supplies, and office modifications required to implement re"ised
administrative and automated processes. The pilots include three alternative organizational models: the
current individual model of one judge with a relatively large staff; an alternative corporate model where
several public defenders at the same location share some staff in common; and a third model where
several judges at the same location and of the same court type share a common staff. Annex 2 provides
a complete description of the project component to modernize courtroom administration.
2.7    Training of judicial personnel will be improved through: (a) consultancies to develop curriculums
and an in-service training plan for court personnel, to develop a training evaluation methodology, to train
instructors, to implement reliable evaluation procedures, to plan and organize study tours, to organize
and carry out periodic regional and national conferences for court personnel; (b) studies to assess training
needs and to evaluate alternative service delivery technologies; (c) training of Judicial School professional
staff and court personnel; and (d) instructional and office equipment. The Judicial Council has appointed
a Judicial Advisory Commission comprised of distinguished practitioners to advise the School. The
Judicial School will submit a 1992-1993 Annual Training Plan as condition of disbursement.
2.8    Rehabilitation, construction, and upgrading of courtrooms to permit replicatiun of the pilot models
will be financed and carried out by the Government. This will include upgrading of courts to be included
in the pilots and rehabilitation, replacement, or upgrading of court buildings which are not currently
adequate for the introduction of reorganized or automated courts. Courts to be included in the pilots have
been identified (see Annex 4). The Judicial Council has reached an agreement with MINDUR to establish
a Working Group to coordinate investment in the courts and to ensure required physical infrastructure
and automation plans are consistent. The Government through its implementing agencies--MINDUR,
state governments, and autonomous federal agencies--plans to construct 250 new courts during the life
of the project. By the end of 1994, 221 courts will be constructed by the following implementing
agencies: MINDUR (13), Centro Simon Bolivar (122), Centro Rafael Urdaneta (58), Government of
Barinas (15), Government of Nueva Esparta (13). The Government will submit annual construction plans
to the Bank by August 31 of each year, with evidence of binding commitments by the implementing
agencies by December 31 of each year. A detailed description of the physical infrastructure component
of the project is given in Annex 4.



- 19 -
VENEZUELA- JUDICIAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Table 11.1: Summary of Project Costs
Local   Foreign        Total % of Base
---------- (US$ thousands) --------------
1. Judicial Administration                       3000        2300        5300          8.8
II. Courtroom Administration                     2000       17700      19700          32.8
111. Judicial Training                           2000        3300        5300          8.8
IV. Physical Infrastructure                     25400            0     25400          42..
Project Implementation Unit                      2300         300        2600          4.3
Price Contingency                                            1700        1700          2.8
PROJECT TOTAL                                   34700       25300      60000           100
Table 11.2:  Financing Plan
Total   IBRD    GOV  % IBRD   % GOV
------  (US$ thousands) --------------
Consuftants                             9000       6000        3000        66.7         33.3
Equipment                              15200      15200           0       100.0          0.0
Training                                6100        5100       1000        83.6         15.4
Court Rehab./Construction              25400          0       25400         0.0        100.0
Proect lmplementaton Unit               2600       2000         600        76.9         23.1
Prce Coningency                         1700       1700           0       100.0          0.0
PROJECT TOTAL                       60000       30000       30000        50.0         50.0
1. Judicial Administration            5300       4300        1000        81.1         18.9
11. Courtroom Administration        19700       17700        2000        89.8         1 C.2
Ill. Judicial Training                5300       4300        1000        81.1         18.9
IV. Physical Infrastructure         25400            0      25400         0.0        100.0
Project Implement. Unit               2600       2000         600        76.9         23.1
Price Contingency (10%)               1700       1700            0      100.0          0.0
PROJECT TOTAL                       6)000       30000      30000         50.0         50.0



- 20 -
2.9    Environment. The project does not directly affect the environment. The project may indirectly
affect the environment by reducing the delay and private costs associated with environmentally related
litigation.
C. Project Cost and Financing
2.10   The project costs are estimated at US$60 million equivalent, based on prices of April 1992. Bank
financed components represent 50 percent of the total cost, with the rest being financed by the
Government of Venezuela (GOV). To expedite implementation, retroactive financing of US$1 million
during the period July 1, 1992 to effectiveness is being recommended. Local costs amount to US$34.7
million equivalent (58 percent of total costs); the foreign exchange component is estimated at US$25.3
million equivalent (42 percent of total costs). The summary of Project Costs (Table 11. 1) and the
Financing Plan (Table 11.2 and Table 11.3) follow. Bank financing by project component and expenditure
category is given in Annex 12.
D. Project Benefits and Risks
2.11   The project is expected to increase courtroom productivity and efficiency and, thereby, reduce
the private sector and individual costs of dispute resolution. The key risks stem from the level of
available budgetary resources, lack of managerial capacity, change in commitment to the project by the
Judicial Council, possible lack of cooperation on the part of judges responsible for implementation at the
courtroom level, and lack of detailed preparation of pilot replication. The budgetary risks would be
mitigated by Government agreement to a long-term investment and expenditure program for institutional
development of the courts, which will be monitored under the project. Future savings in personnel costs
resulting from automation would also reduce budgetary pressures. The lack of managerial capacity on
the part of the Judicial Council and the courts would be mitigated by the project's institutional
strengthening programs and through development of a strong project implementation unit. Change in the
Judicial Council's commitment to the project is minimized by the four-year appointments of Council
members, who uniformly give strong support to the project. The cooperation of judges will be sought
through training and a phased implementation, plan, which will demonstrate the gains to court personnel
from administrative reorganization and automation. Adequate preparation of the second stage of the
project is ensured through analysis of factors affe~cting pilot replication; technical assistance to develop
detailed replication plans; continuous assessment of the implementation of the pilots; and results of other
studies. The study results, replication plans, and pilot evaluations will provide the basis for the mid-term
review of the project, which will result in agreement between the Government and the Bank on piloc
replication in the second stage.
III. PROJECT MPLEMEENTATION
A. Agencies Involved
3.1    The Judicial Council (JC) is the principal executing agency for this project, with MINDUR, the
state governrments, and autonomous federal agencies sharing executing responsibility for the physical
infrastructure component, which is financed solely with Government counterpart funding. The Fondo
de Inversiones de Venezuela (FIV) will act as procurement and consultant contracting agent for the
project.



- 21 -
3.2    The project would last five years (1993 - 1997) and inelude four major components. Annex 6
describes the key project activities, their expected outputs and impacts and the implementation schedule,
all of which were agreed to during appraisal.
3.3    Detailed Action Plans covering the first eighteen months (January 1, 1993, - June 30, 1994) of
the project have been developed and were agreed to during negotiations for each of the first three major
project components; these are given in Anrexes 9-11. At negotiations, the 1992-1993 Action Plan for
the physical infrastructure component was agreed to, At negotiations agreement was also reached that
beginning March 30, 1994, and continuing that same date for each subsquent year of the project, the
Project Implementation Unit (PIU) will submit an Action Plan for each project component, including
proposed training and terms of reference for proposed studies for Bank review.
3.4    Project Management. An adequately staffed Project Implementation Unit reporting directly to the
JC Director of Planning will be established and will adopt a Project Preparation Manual by effectiveness,
The PIU staff will include a Project Manager, three Project Component Managers, and support staff
satisfactory to the Bank as described in Annex 5; draft TOR discussed during negotiations are given in
Annexes 17 and 18. The PIU will by effectiveness contract with the Fondo de Inversiones de Venezuela
(FIV) to contract loan financed consultants, procure equipment and make related payments, maintain
accounts and arrange for annual audits in accordance with Bank Guidelines.  The PIU  will be
strengthened by short-term, specialized consultants to facilitate project implementation and to ensure
appropriate project monitoring. The PIU will be equipped with vehicles to facilitate movement of staff
and to ensure appropriate communication. The Judicial Council will provide equipment, office and
clerical support to the PIU. To ensure the continuity of the project, it was agreed at negotiations that the
Government will maintain the composition of the PIU during the execution of the project.
3.5    Assurances were given during negotiations that within four months of project completion the
Judicial Council will prepare a Project Completion Report (PCR) to assess the success of' the project,
including the achievement of institutional, administrative, operational, and financial objectives an l goals,
and general evaluation of the lessons learned from project experience.
B. Project Monitoring
3.6    The PIU's primary responsibility will be the timely execution of project implementation as
specified in the Action Plans covering the project's first eighteen months. The PIU will monitor project
performance indicators (Annex 7) to track the progress and impact of the project. Overall monitoring
and evaluation of the project would be the responsibility of the PIU, which would contract a consulting
firm experienced in court pilot design and evaluation to monitor the pilots and their replication beginning
the first quarter of 1993; the methodology to be followed by the consultant in evaluating the pilots is
specified in Annex 14. Specific tasks of the PIU include: (a) preparing quarterly progress reports on
project implementation; (b) measuring quantitative and qualitative objectives achieved and reporting such
information in annual progress report, to be submitted to the Bank by December 31, of each year; (c)
reviewing and updating project implementation schedules 1id submitting them to the Bank for approval;
(d) arranging for a comprehensive mid-term evaluation, including preparation of pilot replication with
comments by the consultant contracted to evaluate the pilots, and taking the lead in carrying out remedial
actions as needed; (e) carrying out studies to identify priority areas in procedural law for further analysis
after the mid-term review; (f) conducting background studies for a possible follow up loan; and (g)
preparing the Project Completion Peport. To facilitate measuring partial objectives reached, key activities
have been identified by the Council and performance indicators defined for each one (see Annex 6).
3.7    Monitoring by the Bank would be carried out in semiannual visits (around July and December)
to review progress in implementing the project, and to review proposed Action Plans. An extensive mid-
term review would be carried out by December 31, 1994. The agenda and criteria to be used for the



- 22 -
VENEZUELA
JUDICIAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Table 111.1: SUMMARY OF PROPOSED PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
(US$ Million Equivalent)
Procurement Method                                               Total
Project Element                        ICB           LCB          Otht.r                  N. B. F.         Cost
1. Works
1.1 Construction & Rehabilitation     --                          --                        23.6          23.6
(0.0)        (0.0)
1.2 Upgrading of courts                                           --                         1.8           1.8
(0.0)        (0.0)
2. Goods
2.1 Computer Equipment                10.0          2.0                                                    12.0
(10.0)        (2.0)                                                 (12.0)
2.2 Software Packages                  1.7           1.0          1.0                                      3.7
(1.7)        (1.0)         (1.0)                                    (3.7)
2.3 Books/Legal Manuals (c)                                       0.8                                      0.8
(0.4)                                    (0.4)
2.4 Other Eqpt./Furn./Vehicles                      0.8           0.6                                      1.4
(0.8)        (0.2)                                     (1.0)
3. Consultancies
3.1 Design and Supervision (Pilots)                               1.2                                      1.2
(1.2)                                    (1.2)
3.2 Design/Supervision/Studies                                    6.5                                      6.5
(6.5)                                    (6.5)
3.3 Technical Assistance & Training (d)                           6.2                                      6.2
(5.2)                                    (5.2)
4. Miscellaneous (f)                                                                           2.8           2.8
(0.0)        (0.0)
TOTAL                                  11.7           3.8          16.3                       28.2           60
(11.7)        (3.8)        (14.5)                      (0.0)        (30.0)
Notes: (a) N.M.F. - Not Bank Financed.
(b) Figure In parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the Dank loan.
(c) Books and Manual.: local shopping.
(d) Training Includes travel and expenses.
(a) All consulting services should be procured In accordance with Worfd Bank,
Guldolines: Use of Consultants by World Dank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency
(Washington D.C., August 1981)
(f) Miscellaneous Is Government financed counterpart staff, office space, supplies, ecretarial services
and vehIcle oprading *xpenses, which are required In connection with proJecf Inpfementatfon.



- 23 -
mid-term review are specified in Annex 8. At the mid-term review agreement would be reached on the
pilot replication plan and studies to be carried out subsequent to the review.
C. Procurement
3.8   Procurement of goods under the proposed project would be carried out in a manner consistent
with Bank Procurement Guidelines (May 1985). Consulting services would be contracted in accordance
with Bank Guidelines sor Use of Consultants (August 1981). A review of country procurement practices
has been complkced, and those procedures have been found to be acceptable. During negotiations,
agreement was reached that procurement would be done using standard documentation based on the
Bank's sample bidding documents.
3.9   The total cost of eguipment (including information technology equipment and software and
vehicles, see Procurement Table III.l) is estimated at about US$15.7 million, including contingencies,
of which about 75 % would be procured through international competitive bidding (ICB) procedures, both
in accordance with Bank guidelines, and the remainder through LCB or shopping procedure acceptable
to the Bank. Supply contracts will include maintenance and technical assistance beyond the warranty for
a period of three years. Contracts valued at above US$200,000 would be awarded on the basis of ICB.
Where ICB procedures are used and for bid evaluation purposes, goods manufactured locally would be
given a preference margin as per Bank guidelines. Contracts estimated to cost the equivalent of
US$200,000 or less, but more than the equivalent of US$25,000 up to an aggregate amount equivalent
to US$3.8 million, may be awarded in accordance with competitive bidding procedures locally advertised,
satisfactory to the Bank. Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of US$25,000 or less, up to an aggregate
amount equivalent to US$2.4 million may be procured by shopping procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Procurement for the project would be carried out by FIV, which is familiar with Bank procurement.
3.10  Packages for books, furniture and vehicles would be small and would be delivered in small
quantities at scattered locations. Packages under US$25,000, aggregating to US$2.4 million, would be
procured under local shopping procedures; packages between US$25,000 and US$200,000, in an
aggregate amount of about $0.8 million, would be procured using LCB procedures acceptable to the
Bank. No package is expected to be above US$200,000.
3.11   Civil Works. The total cost of construction, rehabilitation, and upgrading of courts, estimated at
US$25.4 million, will be financed entirely by the Government according to its local procedures (see
Annex 19).
3.12  The Bank's prior review of procurement documentation will cover all major procurement steps
(advertising, bidding documents, evaluation methodologies and reports, award recommendations and
contracts), and would apply to all contracts procured under ICB and first two contracts under LCB
regardless of the amount and all contracts for goods in excess of US$150,000 under LCB. The Bank will
also review all documentation (terms of reference, evaluation of proposals and evaluation methodology,
award recommendations and contract) for all consulting services included in the project, both for
individual consultants and contracts for technical assistance, training and software development, as well
as results of the studies. It is estimated that the prior review process would cover about 90% of the
Bank-financed contracts.
D. Disbursement and Special Accoktit
3.13   Funds from the Bank loan are expected to be disbursed over a period of five years, including
retroactive financing of US$1.5 million from July 1, 1992 to date of signature. Disbursements of the
Bank loan would be made against: 100 percent of consulting fees not provided as counterpart, 100 percent
of foreign-procured imported equipment, 90 percent of locally-procured imported equipment, 100 percent



- 24 -
of training costs, 100 percent of furniiture and installation and 100 percent of the Project Implementation
Unit cost including consultants, training, office preparation, equipment and project auditing.
3.14   Actions to be Agreed. Conditions of project effectiveness include development of a detailed
project operation manual consistent with Bank Guid.-lines for procurement and contracting consultants.
3.15   Documentation of Expenditures Withdrawal applications for goods and works with a contract
value of US$150,000 or more would be supported by full documentation. Contracts below US$200,000
antd other disbursements against activities would be made on the basis of Statements of Expenditure
(SOE), for which supporting documents would be maintained by PIU in the Judicial Council and would
be made available for Bank staff review. Because of the large volume of disbursements expected to be
clained under SOEs, special efforts would be made for the selective review of SOE documentation by
visiting Bank missions. Withdrawal applications for consultant expenditure for all contract amounts would
be supported by full documentation.
3.16   SDecial Account. A Special Account in US dollars would be opened at the Central Bank witlh an
initial deposit of US$1.5 million equivalent, corresponding to about four months of average
disbursements. The Ban3c would replenish the Special Account for the amount of the withdrawals on
account of eligible expenditures at the request of the Borrower.
E. Accounting and Audits
3 17   The PIU would maintain records (in electronic and paper medium) for each project component,
and consolidate them into the project accounts and SOEs. Supporting documentation would be maintained
by the PIU and be made available to Bank missions and independent auditors as required.
3.18   Project accounts, including the special account and SOEs, would be audited annually in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles applied by external private independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank. with terms of reference for auditors and reports approved by the Bank; this was
agreed at negotiations. Cost of the consultant services to be employed for the annual audits would be
eligible for financing included in PIU under the loan. Audit reports would be furnished to the Bank within
five months after close of the Government's fiscal year (December 31).
IV. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
4.1    During negiations. the following assurances were obtained from the Government:
(a) Evidence, satisfactory to the Bank, will be submitted to the Baiink, not later than April 30 of each
year, starting in 1993, showing that the Judicial Council's final proposed budget, submitted to the
Executive for the then following fiscal year, includes adequate allocations, based on the results of the
study to develop recurrent budgeting norms to be completed by January 31, 1993, and the Bank's
comments thereon, in respect of material and supply costs for all courts and public defender offices
in Venezuela. (para. 3.04a, 3.07a of the Loan Agre.bment)
(b) Evidence, satisfactory to the Bank, will be submitted, not later than September 30 of each year,
starting in 1993, showing the amount of expenditures incurred in respect of material and supply costs
for all courts and public defenders offices in the then current year. (para. 3.0-b of LA)
(c) Based on the results of the study to develop recurrent budgeting norms, the Judicial Council will
formulate and furnish to the Bank, not later than May 31, 1993, a plan of action satisfactory to the
Bank for the purposes of improving the administration of materials and supplies in all courts and



- 25 -
public defenders offices; and implement the plan c` action in a manner and under a timetable
satisfactory to the Bank. (para. 3.07c of LA)
(d) The study on salaries of judicial personnel will be carried out by not later than June 30, 1994. Based
on the results and recommendations of the study and the Bank's comments thereon, the Judicial
Council will formulate and furnish an action plan satisfactory to the Bank by September 30, 1994,
and implement such action plan in a manner and under a timetable satisfactory to the Bank. (para.
3.04a,c of LA)
(e) The Government will, through the Judicial Council, operate and maintain the Project Advisory
Commission (PAC), established by the Judicial Council pursuant to resolution 1502 dated June 3,
1992, with functions, structure, and staff satisfactory to the Bank. (para. 1.01u, 3.Olb.5, 3.05a of
LA)
(f) The Government will, through the Judicial Council, establish and maintain the Project Implementation
Unit (PIJ) to be in charge of the overall coordination and monitoring of the implementation of the
Project, with functions, structure and staff satisfactory to the Bank, for the duration of the project.
(para. 1.01v, 3.05b of LA)
(g) The Government will employ by March 31, 1993, and maintain thereafter, a consultant, with
experience and qualifications and under terms of reference all acceptable to the Bank, for the
purposes of assisting in the evaluation of pilot models and the implementation of pilot replication.
(para. 3.06 of LA)
(h) The Government will ensure that the agreement with the Fondo de Inversiones for the purpose of
administration of project contracting and procurement is maintained during the execution of the
project. (para. 1.0ls, 3.01b4 of LA)
(i) The Government will, through the Judicial Council, operate and maintain the Infrastructure Working
Group to coordinate physical infrastructure planning with functions, structure, and staff satisfactory
to the Bank. (para. 1.01k, 3.05b of LA)
(j) The Judicial Council will operate and maintain the Judicial School Advisory Board established by the
Judicial Council pursuant to the Council's resolution 1503 dated June 3, 1992, with functions,
structure and staff satisfactory to the Bank, for the duration of the project. (para. 1.0lo, 3.Olb.5,
3.05b of LA)
(k) Physical infrastructure improvements for the fourteen selected pilot courts and public defender offices
to be located in Caracas, Carabobo, and Acaragua, will be completed by the Judicial Council and
MINDUR, in accordance with a progra'm acceptable to the Bank, by June 30, 1993. (para. 1.01z,
3.09 of LA)
(1) The Judicial Council will, beginning no later than June 30, 1994, anid annua3ly thereafter publish in
its Annual Report (Memoria v Cuenta), or other report accepted by the Bank, data on each of the
performance indicators agreed between the Council and the Bank, by each judicial district,
jurisdiction and category of courts, and will provide to each judge, on ar. annual basis, information
in respect of the court performance indicators related to the respective judge. (para. 3.08a,c of LA)
(m) The Judicial Council will, beginning in 1993, submit to the Bank by March 31 and September 30 data
on project performance indicators agreed between the Council and the Bank. (para. 1.0 ic, 3.0(1t of
LA)
(n) On a quarterly basis, starting not later than March 31, 1993, the Judicial Council will provide
quarterly progress reports on the project to the Bank, and not later December 31 of each year of



- 26 -
Project execution, starting on December 31, 1993, submit annual progress reports on the project,
including documentation of implementation progress for each project component in the previous year
and specific proposals for adjustments in project implementation based on the results of the previous
year. (para. 3.02a of LA)
(o) The Government shall carry out, through the Judicial Council, the physical infrastructure component
with the assistance of MINDUR, the Centro Simon Bolivar, the Centro Rafael Urdaneta, and the
respective State Governments. By August 31 in each year, the Government will submit tor the Bank
an annual plan for courtroom construction, rehabilitation and upgrading. By December 31 in each
year, the Government will submit to the Bank evidence that each of the respective Implementation
Agencies have made binding commitments to participate and finance their portion of the annual plan.
(para. 1.Olj and 3.01b.iii of LA)
(p) The Government will carry out, through the Judicial Council, the project components financed by the
Bank, for the period 1993-94 in accordance with the Action Plans agreed at negotiations and submit
to the Bank by March 30 in each year, starting in 1994, annual plans for execution of the project
components financed by the Bank for 1994 and thereafter. (para. 1.Ola and 3.01b. 1,2 of LA)
(q) The Government will submit to the Bank by March 31, 1994, a proposed program for the replication
of the pilots and the comments on such proposed program, made by the consultant in (f) above. (para.
3.01b.6 of LA)
(r) The Government shall complete the studies to: (a) assess the adequacy of salaries of all judicial
personnel, identify and evaluate the effectiveness and impact of existing alternative dispute resolution
methods in Venezuela, evaluate alternative means to improve access to justice for the poor; assess
and monitor the private costs of litigation, and assess alternatives for a computerized data base on
statutory and case law by not later than June 30, 1994; (b) determine the level of budgetary
allocations required for operational supplies of the courts and public defender offices by not later than
January 31, 1993; (c) identify priority areas in procedural law related to the project objectives and
which merit further in depth analysis; and develop a reliable inventory of court buildings and
equipment, standard models of courtroom design and a long-term investment plan by no later than
March 31, 1994. (para. 3.04a of LA)
(s) The Judicial Council and the Bank will undertake ioint annual reviews by December 31 of each year
(covering both the previous and forthcoming years), and a mid-term review of project implementation
in accordance with terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank. Upon the Bank's recommendations,
any required adjustments would be made in project implementation in order to attain the agreed
objectives. (para. 3.03a,b,c of LA)
(t) The Council will follow the Bank's rules on auditing of project accounts and procurement. Audits
will be submitted within five months after the end of each fiscal year. (para. 4.01b, i,ii of LA)
(u) The Bank shall have the right to suspend Loan disbursements in case of any change in the
organizational structure or functions of the Judicial Council which, in the opinion of the Bank, would
adversely affect the implementation or supervision of the project. (para. 6.01a of LA)
4.2    By effectiveness. the Government will:
(a) Formally approve the Judicial Council's Draft Resolution 1501 containing changes in the functions
and organizational structure of the Judicial Council for the purposes of increasing the decision making
authority of the Council's directors and providing the Council's planning director with responsibility
for coordination among the directors and communication between directors and the Council's
magistrates. (para. 6.01a of LA)



- 27 -
(b) Employ the consultant to carry out a study of salaries of judicial personnel. (para. 6.01b of LA)
(c) Adopt a project operation manual consistent with Bank Guidelines for procurement and contracting
consultants. (para. 6.01c of LA)
(d) Establish the PIU with functions, structure, and staff satisfactory to the Bank. (para. 6.01d of LA)
(e) Execute the agreement with the Fondo de Inversiones de Venezuela to act as procurement agent.
(para. 6.01e of LA)
4.3    As disbursement conditions:
(a) No withdrawals shall be made for expenditures related to the project that are not included in an
annual plan agreed to by the Bank. (para. 3.d of Schedule 1 of LA)
(b) No withdrawals shall be made for expenditures with respect to the replication of the pilot models,
unless the Government has agreed with the Bank on a program to extend the models to the remaining
targeted courts and/or public defenders offices. (para. 3.c of Schedule 1 of LA)
(c) No withdrawals shall be made for expenditures with respect to the Judicial School Component, unless
the Government has presented the 1992-93 Annual Training Plan. (para. 3.b of Schedule 1 of LA)
4.4   Recommendations. Subject to the above assurances and conditions, the proposed project would
constitute a suitable basis for a Bank loan of US$30 million equivalent to the Republic of Venezuela, for
a period of 15 years including a five year grace period on level repayment of principal, at the Bank's
standard variable interest rate.



- 28 -
Annex 1
Page 1 of 2
VENEZUELA
JUDICIAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
PROJECT DESCRIPTION: THE JUDICIAL. COUNCIL
1.   The project would strengthen the institutional capacity of the Judicial Council, including its
regional offices, to plan and manage Venezuela's court system. Total cost of the Judicial Council
component of the project is estimated at US$5.3 million, with Fank financing of US$4.3 million. Bank
financing would include consultants (US$2.5 million), training (US$0.8 million), and equipment (US$1.0
million).
2.   The major objectives of this project component are to increase efficiency in allocation of the
Council's annual budget and to increase productivity of the Council and the country's court system. To
achieve these objectives, the project would (a) strengthen overall communication and coordination within
the Council, which would require giving the Director of Planning of the Judicial Council, the
responsibility for management coordination of the Council staff (Directors) and the responsibility for
communication between the Council and its Directors by board presentation and establishment of
computer networks and provision of vehicles; (b) improve planning and analytic capacity and institute
program budgeting and reporting in the Planning Directorate, including a study of required recurrent
costs; (c) develop a management information system, including annual collection and publication of court
performance indicators by the Statistics Division; (d) develop the capacity for planning and coordinating
physical infrastr.. 'ture investments in the Administration Directorate, including a long term investment
plan and sta   -. mnodel of court design; (e) strengthen human resource planning and operations in the
Personnel Di;      te, including a study of judicial personnel salaries; (f) strengthen supervision of and
technical assis .-,ce to the courts by the Inspectorate Directorate; (g) improving the quality of audits
carried out by the Internal Controf Directorate; (h) reduce costs and improve retrieval of court records
by the General Archive Division; and (i) strengthen the capacity of the nineteen regional offices in
financial management, court supervision, and communications with the central office. The success of
the project in attaining these ends would be measured by the project performance indicators listed in
Annex 7.
3.   The project would include consultants and studies to: (a) determine required recurrent costs; (b)
assess the adequacy of judicial salaries; (c) evaluate the feasibility and impact on the courts of alternative
dispute resolution procedures; (d) implement program budgeting and strengthen financial management
(e) develop court performance indicators and a reliable system of court statistics, and develop the baseline
data required for the project performance indicators; (0 assess and monitor the private costs of litigation;
(g) assess alternate means to improve access to justice by the poor, (h) develop a reliable inventory of
buildings and equipment and plan future physical infrastructure requirements and prepare pilot court
remodeling plan; (i) develop a personnel data base and analyze Council training requirements; (j) assess
policy and technological changes in storing court records; evaluate current policies on court fees and
judicial deposits; (k) design and install communication networks within the Council and between its
regional offices; (I) strengthen administrative capacity in the regional offices; (m) assess alternative means



- 29 -
Annex I
Page 2 of 2
of developing, maintaining, and disseminating data bases on legislation and jurisprudence; (n) identify
priority areas in procedural law related to the objectives of the project and which merit further in-depth
analysis; and (o) carry out other studies agreed to by the Council and the Bank.
4.    The project would include training of: (a) Planning Directorate staff in financial management and
policy analysis; (b) Statistics Division staff in analysis and publication o" court statistics; (c)
Administration Directorate staff in analysis and planning of building and equipment investment and
maintenance; (d) Personnel Directorate staff in human resource planning; (e) Internal Control Directorate
staff in auditing procedures; (f) General Archive Division staff in court record keeping; (g) Inspectorate
Directorate staff in monitoring the reliability of court statistics and providing technical assistance in court
management; (h) regional office staff in court management and supervision; and (i) other training
activities related to project objectives which may be agreed between the Bank and the Judicial Council.
The project would finance office equipment and vehicles required for the management information
system, for statistical analysis, for Council communications, and for court supervision.
5.    The project activities of this component would be carried out during the life of the project. Those
activities to be initiated and completed from January 1, 1993, to June 30, 1994, are specified in the
Action Plan given in Annex 9. The criteria for mid-term review of this project component are given in
Annex 8.



- 30 -
Annex 2
Page 1 of 4
VENEZUELA
JUTDICIAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
PROJECT DESCRWTION: MiODERNIZATION OF COURTROOM ADMINISTRATION
1.   The project would increase the efficiency and productivity of court administration in Venezuela.
Total cost of the courtroom administration component is estimated at US$21.4 million with Bank
financing of US$19.4 million. Bank financing would include consultants (US$2.5 million), training
(US$1.3 million), and equipment (UJS$15.6 million).
2.   The objective of this project component is to increase the efficiency and productivity of the courts
and public defender's offices by: (a) reducing the administrative load on judges to enable them to
concentrate on judicial matters; (b) improving the capacity of courtroom personnel to manage
administrative processes; (c) enabling the government to increase the number of judges without a
corresponding increase in staff; (d) improving attention to and information provided to the public; (e)
increasing the efficiency of the administration through streamlined procedures and automation; (f)
improving the amount and quality of information provided to the Judicial Council regarding court
performance and bottlenecks in case processing; and (g) identifying priority areas in procedural law
related to the component's objective which merit further analysis.
3.   To achieve these objectives, the project would: (a) review the legal and regulatory framework of
court administration and develop procedural manuals for judicial offices (courts and public defender
offices); (b) ensure all judicial offices have minimum required reference and code books, procedural
manuals, and office equipment, and train court personnel in revised administrative procedures in all courts
in the country; (c) design, implement, and evaluate pilots of reorganized court models; and (d) implement
the three models, according to their feasibility, and subject to a program to be agreed between the Bank
and the Judicial Council, including development of a regional support structure and training of court
personnel.
4.   The project would finance consultants and studies to: (a) review all pertinent laws, executive
decrees and JC-issued regulations to prepare a simplified text (texto ordenado) and operational manual;
(b) to develop and test software in pilots in Caracas, Carabobo, and Aragua, and demonstrate their results
to judicial personnel; (c) to organize regional and national meetings to demonstrate new court technology
to court personnel; (d) to provide the data required to evaluate the pilots and to carry out that evaluation;
(e) to prepare implementation plans and implement revised court administrative procedures for
management of the court's personnel, materials and supplies budget, building and equipment maintenance,
and physical space; (f) to implement revised case management procedures, including recording, tracking,
and processing cases, to all courtrooms and public defender's offices; (g) to provide ongoing technical
assistance and support to the courts in automated systems; (h) to ensure the reliable production of court
statistics, including assisting the Statistics Division of the Judicial Council to develop baseline data for
the project performance indicators; (i) to prepare implementation plans and implement automation
procedures; (j) and examine the management of court fees and judicial deposits. The project would
finance training of court personnel (judges, secretaries, bailiffs, clerks, public defenders) in revised and
automated procedures.



- 31 -
Annex 2
Page 2 of 4
5.   The project would finance: (a) computers and software for the pilot courts and for replication of
the pilots; (b) supplies and legal material (code books) to establish minimum legal reference libraries for
each court; and (c) court and office equipment (photocopiers, typewriters, basic computers for word
processing, secure cabinets) and associated supplies to all courts.
6.    Several Pilot Organization Models would be developed, including three models  with the
descriptions that follow. The first model would apply to courts of the same level and judicial competence
which are physically located in the same building; this model will be tested in six civil and merczntile
superior courts in Caracas. The second model is applicable to public defender's offices which are located
physically in the same building; this model will be tested in six offices in Carabobo . The third model
is applicable to courts and public defender's offices operating individually, not in close proximity to other
courts; this model will be tested in two locations in the State of Aragua.
7.   The multiple Judge model permits the consolidation of administrative staff and provision of
common services for 3-10 judges of the same legal jurisdiction, category and physical location of courts.
It will have at least:
a)    A Chief Titled Judge.
b)   Three to 10 Assistant Judges.
c)    At least one Court Administrator (Secretario).
d)    At least one Bailiff (Alguacil).
e)    A Central Archive.
f)    Common Administrative Staff.
g)    Common, Single Public In.ormation Window.
Characteristics of the Model include:
a)    All Judges are the same legal jurisdiction and category.
b)   All personnel are located in the same building.
c)    Sentencing (Sentenciadores) Judges are separated from the public.
d)   Investigative (Sustanciadores) Judges and the Court Administrator have contact with the
public.
e)    Each Sentencing Judge has an Assistant to help prepare judicial decisions. These Judges
have no administrative function.
f)    Management of the Court is the responsibility of the Chief Titled Judge and the Court
Administrator.
g)   The Common Archive is under the supervision of the Court Administrator.
8.   The second or corporate model is applied to public defender's offices located in the same building.
Currently public defenders act individually lacking both adequate resources and an equitable distribution
of work. These offices include a public defender, an administrator (secretario) assistant and messenger.
The corporate model would permit:
a)    Consclidation of administration processes.
b)    Sharing of physical space.
c)    Provision of public information.
d)   Sharing of human resources.
e)    Centalization and the distribution of cases.
f)    Establishing common defense strategy.



- 32 
Annex 2
Page 3 of 4
Characteristics of this model include:
a)    All public defenders are located in the same building.
b)    The defender's office, administrative staff, the public and the central archive are physically
separately.
c)    There will be a Central Archive.
d)    A Chief Public Defender will be assigned the administrative responsibility for the office.
9.    The third or individual-model will increase the efficiency of the courts and public defenders
through simplified procedures for administration, and a single public information window. There are an
average 10 employees per judge in the individual model and three to four per public defender.
Procedures for all three models will be complemented by the use of computers ^nd software systems,
except in the case of the third model, for individual courtrooms whose size and irnportance is too small
to justify the cost of the computer equipment; nevertheless, the new simplified procexdures will still be
introduced, although manually. The individual or traditional model has the following characteristics:
a)    Each Judge or Public Defender has complete autonomy or independence in administrative
matters.
b)    Each Judge or Public Defender has a secretary or assistant responsible for work peculiar
to that particular court. In addition, each Judge or Public Defender retains responsibility
for supervising the clerical staff.
c)    Each court retains its own archive.
d)    There is a single public information window.
10.  Implementation of the Pilots. The project would finance a consulting firm to prepare procedural
manuals, develop software applications, and implement three models of courtroom and public defender's
offices organization in three different locations (Caracas, Carabobo, and Aragua). The new procedures
and software will be tested (the pilots) during 1993-94 to ensure their correctness and app'icability, to
demonstrate results to judicial personnel, and to permit their replicability throughout the country.
11.  In addition to implementing the pilots, the contractor will by the fourth quarter of 1993, ensure
that all judicial offices (including public defenders) in the country have received manuals and training on
revised administrative procedures; required legal reference and code books; and basic office equipment
(typewriters and, in some cases, computers for basic word processing). In carrying out these tasks, the
contractor will work closely with the consultants to the Statistics Division of the Judicial Council to
coordinate and facilitate the collection of the court statistics required to generate individual court
performance indicators (Annex 13) and baseline data for the project performance indicators (Annex 7).
The contractor will also prepare explanatory materials and carry out regional seminars and workshops
on court reorganization and automation to demonstrate their benefits to judicial personnel, and will carry
out demonstration workshops for judicial personnel at tht pilot sites; at a minimum, selected judicial
personnel from each of the courts to be reorganized and automated in 1994-95 will participate in these
workshops. The Action Plan agreed to with the Bank for this project component for January 1, 1993, -
June 30, 1994, is given in Annex 10.



- 33 -
Annex 2
Page 4 of 4
12.  The pilots would test locally-developed and supported computer software. It is expected that any
difficulties with that software would be modified in the context of the pilots and prior to implementation
outside the pilots. Should locally-developed software prove unworkable, more expensive foreign scftware
(e.g., Gesius or other equivalent softwares) would be adopted; this may require a reduction in the planned
number of courts to be automated. Should court reorganization not prove technically feasible, the project
would consider applying the individual court model to all cours; this, too, would require a reduction in
the planned number of courts to be automated. The evaluacion consultant will provide continuing
quarterly reports to the PIU on the feasibility of implementing the locally-developed software and on the
feasibility of implementing all three pilot models. The PIU should by the first quarter of 1994 provide
the Bank with a proposed program to extend the pilots and seek the approval of the Bank for such plans.
13.  Evaluation of the Pilots. Ongoing monitoring and evaluation of the pilots will be carried out by
an independent, foreign consultant experienced in the design, execution, and evaluation of pilots. The
methodology for the evaluation is provided in Annex 14.; the consultant responsible for designing and
implementing the pilots will ensure that all information required for evaluation is promptly provided to
tne evaluation consultant.
14.  Replication of the Pilots. Once tested, it is planned that the three models will be installed up to
fifty percent of courtrooms and public defender's offices. The selection and timing of the installation of
the models will be prepared by the PIU based on the following considerations: (a) infrastructure
characteristics; (b) feasibility of introduction of changes and commitment by the judges concerned; and
(c) the existing caseload.
15.  Each site will take one week minimum to become operational under the new model, and would
require additional on-going support, diminishing but not disappearing over time. Hence, a team of
consultants will be hired for each of the nineteen regions to install equipment, train users, and offer hot-
line support during the implementation phase of the project. In the fifth year of the project, the PIU will
assess the best alternative for offering continued maintenance and computer-related technical assistance
to the courts; the Government will include financing for such maintenance and technical assistance in the
Judicial Council budget beginning with FY97. The cost of maintenance alone is estimated at US$2
million per year, if carried out completely by a hardware vendor. One alternative which should be
examined by the PIU is for the Judicial Council to develop permanent regional staff to carry out
preventive and routine maintenance, with an agreement with a vendor for more substantial repairs.



- 34 -
Annex 3
Page 1 of 1
VENEZUELA
JUDICIAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
PROJECT P1SCRIPTION: THE JUDICIAL SCHOOL
1.   The project would develop the institutional capacity of the Judicial School and finance the project-
related in-service training of judicial personnel over the life of the project. The project would also
finance other training specific to and included in other project components. Total cost of the judicial
training project component is estimated at US$5.3 million, with Bank financing of US$4.3 million. Bank
financing would include consultants (US$1.0 million), training (US$3.0 million), and equipment (US$0.3
million). Government financing would be for training (US$1.0 million) of judicial personnel.
2.   The major objective of this project component is to increase the productivity of judicial personnel
audges, court administrators, inspectors, and public defenders) and facilitate implementation of new
administrative systems through effective in-service training. Towards this end, the project would (a)
improve the capacity of the Judicial School to design, plan, deliver, and evaluate training and (b) provide
project-related in-service training to judicial personnel. The success of the project in attaining these ends
would be measured by the project performance indicators listed in Annex 7.
3.   The project would finance consultants to: (a) determine training needs and priorities; (b) develop
course curriculums for in-service training of judicial personnel; (c) evaluate alternative service delivery
technologies, paying particular emphasis to distance learning and assessing the feasibility of using the
distance learning facilities of the Universidad Nacional Abierta (UNA), and determine instructional
equipment required for recommended technologies; (d) identify potential instructors among judicial
personnel and organize training programs to improve their teaching capacity and to train other instructors;
(e) develop an evaluation methodology for in-service courses; (f) deliver and evaluate pilot courses; (g)
with the advice of the Judicial Advisory Commission (comprised of distinguished judges, court
administrators, public defendenders, and inspectors to be named as a condition of disbursement for this
project component) develop a long-term, in-service training plan; (h) plan and organize study tours of
model judicial schools in other countries (e.g., Brazil, Spain, the U.S.) by Judicial School staff, members
of the Judicial Advisory Commission, and potential instructors; and (i) work with School staff to organize
and carry out periodic regional and national conferences for judicial nersonnel. The project would
finance training of (a) Judicial School staff its Advisory Commission, and its instructors to strengthen its
capacity to assess training needs; to develop training plans; to design, plan, and evaluate courses; and to
contract with independent providers of training courses; and (b) judicial personnel in management and
selected substantive and procedural leg-' subjects. Finally, the project would finance instructional
equipment required to develop and deliver training materials.
4.   The project activities of this component would be carried out during the life of the project. Those
activities to be initiated and completed from January 1, 1993 to June 30, 1994, are specified in the Action
Plan given in Annex 11. Tne criteria for mid-term review of this project component are given in Annex
8.



- 35 -
Annex 4
Page 1 of 3
VENEZUELA
JUDICIAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
PROJECT DESCRIPEION: PHYSICAL INFRASTRUCTURE
1.   The Project would improve the physical condition and availability of court buildings in Venezuela.
The total cost of the physicai infrastructure component of the project is estimated at US$25.4 million,
with Bank financing of US$ 0.0 million. The GCOV financing of US$25.4 million
equivalent includes new construction, rehabilitation, and court upgrading.
2.   The major objectives of this project component are to increase the number and quality of court
buildings that facilitate implementation of revised and automated court systems. To achieve these
objectives, the project would carry out: (a) upgrading of the pilot courts and public defender offices to
ensure adequate security and electricity and the space layout required of each model; (b) new construction
and court rehabilitation of approximately 250 courts; and (c) upgrading of an additional 350 courts. The
success of the project in attaining these ends would be measured by the project performance indicators
listed in Annex 7.
3.   Implementation of the pilots requires changes in physical layout of existing courts and public
defender offices to accomodate three alternative Organization Models:
(a)   Space Layout for Multiple Judge Model. The total space requirement to accomodate
consolidation of administrative staff and additional judges is between 300 and 375 square
meters (SM).  The layout provides separate areas for the public, judges, and their
secretaries, court administrator, administrative staff and clerks, file room, and in the case
of criminal courts, enclosure for Initial Presentation.
(b)   Space Layout for Corporate Model. The total space requirement is 275 to 300 SM for this
model applied to public defender offices. The layout provides separate areas for the public,
public defenders, administrative staff and clerks and file room.
(c)   Spe Layout for Individual Model. The total space allocated is 150 to 175 SM. This
smallest court model is suitable for individually operating courts located in large and small
urban centers. Individual courts in rural areas have different space and usage requirements.
Review of these layouts may be required during the pilots if locations in rural areas are to
be automated.
3.   The project would finance as part of Judicial Council (JC) component consultants, works and
studies to: (a) coordinate infrastructure planning between JC, MINDUR and the state governments, (b)
assess the adequacy of existing space in courtrooms, (c) d velop revised layouts and implementation plan
and carry out remodeling of pilot court and pulic defender locations, and (d) prepare a long term
investment plan for court rehabilitation and construction. To facilitate coordination of planning, finance,
and execution of court construction, rehabilitation, and upgrading, the Government has established an
Infrastructure Working Group comprised of two members each from the JC and MINDUR.
4.   The GOV would upgrade fourteen sites (six in Caracas for the Multiple Judges Model, six in
Carabobo for the Corporate Model and two in Aragua for the Individual Model) for use in the pilots;
construct approximately 250 new court offices (at an average cost of US$89,500) per court; and upgrade
approximately 350 court offices (at an average cost of US$8,600 per court) over the life of the project
at an estimated total cost of US$25.4 million. The 221 courts to be completed between 1993 and 1994



- 36 -
Page 2 of 3
are currently under construction; another 29 courts are currently planned for construction in 1995-1996
(see Table 4.1). Net of expenditures to date, the GOV's finance required to complete its 1993-1996
investment plan is US$25.4 million.
5.   New construction of court offices between 1993 and 2000 will almost exclusively focus on Halls
of Justice in major urban centers; these facilities group several courts in the same building (see Table 4.2
for tentative construction plan for 354 court offices at an estimated cost of US$54 million for 1997 to
2000). The 250 court offices to be completed during the project will permit the adoption of the several
Court Organization Models. In addition to the new courts and public defender offices, there are about
350 existing, individual court offices which would only require minor upgrading in order to accomodate
implementation of automated systems; upgrading will primarily include provision of movable partitioning
for enhanced privacy in court operation, improved security spaces for records and equipment, and
upgraded electrical connections for computers.
Table 4.1
Planned Court Construction 1993-96
State          Citv                 Total        Date of           Executing
Number    Availability          Agency
Fed. District    Caracas                122            1993            CSB
Apure          San Fernando              13           1993             M
Zulia          Maracaibo                 58            1994            CRU
Barinas        Bolivar                   15            1994            M&S
N. Esparta     Porla Mar                 13           1994             M&S
Fed. District    Caracas                 29            1996            CSB
Total                                  250
CSB - Centro Simon Bolivar
CRU - Centro Rafael Urdaneta
M - Ministry of Urban Deveopnient (MINDUR)
M&S - MINDUR and or State Government
Sources: Consejo de la Judicatura and Ministry of Urban Develoopment.
Box 1
6.   The executing agencies for this component of the project would be the MINDUR, the state
governments, and two autonomous federal agencies. MINDUR will carry out the improvements required
in the pilot courts and public defender offices by June 30, 1993. The executing agercies and sources of
finance for new court construction have been identified for courts coming on line 1992-1994 (see Table
4.1). By August 31, 1993, the Judicial Council will submit a plan acceptable to the Bank for all
infrastructure improvements, including new construction and court upgrading, to be carried out in 1994.



- 37 -
Annex 4
Page 3 of 3
Table 4.2
Tentative Plan for Court Construction
1997 - 2000
State           Ofity          Total            Date          Area       Total
Number             Qf          Sq. Mt.   Est, Cost
Avail-       (OO0'sl      US$
abilitv                 (Million)
Aragua          Maracay        27               1997           4.5         2.9
Bolivar         Puerto Ordaz   15               1997           2.4         1.5
Fed. District   Caracas        68               1998          11.9        10.8
Miranda         Los Teques      18              1998           7.5        4.7
Carabobo        Valencia       37               1998           6.2        4.0
Merida          Merida         25               1998           4.3        11.3
Falcon          Coro           15               1998           2.6         1.6
Monagas         Manrin         15               1998           3.1        2.0
Cojedes         San Carlos      8               1999           1.4         1.1
Sucre           Cumana          17              1999           2.8         1.8
Yaracuy         San Fe.         15              1999           2.5        2.0
Guarico         San Juan       20               2000           3.4        2.7
Lara            Barquisimito   25               2000           4.3         1.4
Portuguesa      Guanare        16               2000           2.6        2.2
Tachira         S. Cristobal    20              2000           3.2         2.6
Trujillo        Trujillo        13              2000           2.2         1.4
ToItail                         4
Sources: Consejo de la Judicatura and Ministry of Urban Develoopment
Box 2
7.   The project activities of this component would be carried out during the life of the project. The
criteria for mid-term review of this project component are given in Annex 8.



- 38 -
Annex 5
Page 1 of 4
VENEZUELA
JUDICIAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
DESCRIPIION: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION UNIT
1.   The project would ensure the project management capacity of the Project Implementation Unit
(PIU), which reports directly to the Judicial Council Direc.or of Planning. The PIU would submit data
on the project performance indicators (Annex 7) to the Bank as part of its annual project report, and
would develop baseline data on those indicators by the fourth quarter of 1992. In addition, the PIU
would be responsible for carrying out preparation stur'ies for a possible follow-on loan. The PIU will
be composed of consultants (detailed below), and supp,. -ad by two JC secretaries. Total cost of the PIU
is estimated at US$2.6 million, with Bank financing of US$2.0 million. Bank financing would include
consultants (US$1.7 million), training (US$0.1 million), and equipment including vehicles (US$0.2
million).
PIU Personnel
Project Manager
2.   The Project Manager, to be appointed by project effectiveness, has overall responsibility for
project execution being on time and within budget, and will:
(a)   prepare a detailed project execution document as described below;
(b)   direct and supervise the execution of the project according to the work program and
schedule detailed in the project execution document;
(c)   coordinate the activities of the component managers and the administrative officer,
staff and consultants responsible for the implementation of the various project
activities;
(d)  review all terms of reference, evaluation methodologies, contracts, consultants'
reports, etc. before presenting them to the Bank;
(e)   prepare and propose any necessary changes to the project execution document;
(f)  set up and operate the Project Implementation Unit; and
(g)   coordinate activities with the Fondo de Inversiones (FIV) and the Bank;
3.   Performance Indicators: all activities carried out, contracts and acquisitions have been detailed in
the work program and agreed previously with the Bank; all activities detailed in the work program
are carried out on time and within budget.



- 39 -
Annex 5
Page 2 of 4
Component Managers
4.   The Component Managers, to be appointed by project effectiveness, has responsibility for
component execution being on time and within budget, and will:
(a)   direct and supervise the execution of the component according to the work program
and schedule detailed in the project execution document;
(b)   coordinate the activities of the staff and consultants responsible for the
implementation of the various component activities;
(c)   prepare all terms of reference, evaluation methodologies, contracts, consultants'
reports, etc. concerning their component before presenting them to the Project
Manager;
(d)   prepare and propose any necessary changes to the component's section in the project
execution document to the Project Manager;
Performance Indicators: all activities detailed in the work program are carried out on time and
within budget.
Administrator Officer
The administration of the project requires the preparation and follow-up of administrative
paperwork for contracting, acquisitions, disbursements, progress reporting, etc.   The
Administrative Officer would be responsible for all activities necessary for project administration,
overseeing the work of as well as training the senior accounting clerk in the same functions. The
Administrative Officer is responsible for preparing a manual detailing administrative procedures
and defining reports and standards for documents to be used by CJ staff for project execution and
by the Bank for project supervision, and reports to the Project Manager. The Administrative
Officer will:
(a)   Facilitate communications and cooperation between JC and the consultant hired to
work in the project.
(b)   Supervise the activities of the accounting clerks and secretaries.
Performance Indicators: execution of administrative processes according to schedule and following
Bank and local regulations; training of senior clerk to be able to substitute for the administrative
officer on holidays and during other absences.



- 40 -
AnAnex 5
Page 3 of 4
Senior Accounting Clerk
The Senior Accoun.ing Clerk is responsible for all accounts, records and financial reports
necessary for project execution and supervision, and in particular the yearly project audits. The
SAC will train the Junior Accounting Clerk. The Senior Accounting Clerk reports to the
Administrative Officer.
Performance Indicators:  Accounting records complete and up-to-date; junior clerk able to
substitute for the senior accounting clerk on holidays and during other absences.
Junior Accounting Clerk
Supports and reports to the senior accounting clerk.
Perfornance Indicator: Must be able to substitute for the senior accounting clerk in case of
absence.
Project Monitoring and Evaluation Consultants
Will assist the PIU in evaluating and reporting project performance, including the preparation of
statistics required to develop the project performance indicators to be reported to the Bank. The
most important of these consultants is a firm with prior experience n the design and evaluation
of court pilots to monitor and evaluate the pilots and the initial stages of implementation of court
reorganization and automation.
Review Committee
5.   The JC will designate a Project Advisory Commission (PAC) led by the Planning Director and
including three distinguished judges, three distinguished lawyers in private practice, and invited delegates
from the Supreme Court, the Ministry of Justice, COPRE, the Fiscalia, MINDUR, and the Colegio de
Abogados. The PAC will be supported by PIU technical staff and consultants as appropriate. The PAC
will review all quarterly and annual reports on the project and will recommend priorities for consultancies
and studies additional to those specified in Annexes 1-4.
Project Execution Document
6.   The project will be implemented on the basis of a document called "Project Execution Document"
prepared by the JC and initially used for project definition and approval. Once project implementation
begins, it will be used for project control and as a history log. After project termination, it will be used
for the project evaluation. During implementation, the Project Document will become a continuously
growing file of all facets of the project, constituting a management summary of the entire project and
processes involved. The Project Document should contain at least the following chapters:



41 -
Annex 5
Page 4 of 4
Executive Summary
Table of Contents
Background of the Project
Assignment of Responsibilities (accountabilities, Project Document modification approval
mechanisms, Steering Committe if any).
Project Detail: For every macroactivity, indicate objectives, activities, results, measures of
quality or acceptance, measurement units, tests and mechanisms of approval of result,
personnel responsible for each test, range of acceptance (minimum, expected and excellent
results), action plans, costs and resources for each activitv,
Action Plan Summary: Schedule of activities, milestones, deliverables, acquisitions,
contracts, resources, in GANTT charts, Summary Budget and Accounting Tables, etc.
Schedule and format of status reports
7.   A minimum number of reports will be produced by the Project Implementation Unit:
Weekly report of Component Managers to the Project Manager (2 paras)
Monthly report of Component Manager to the Project Manager (2 pages)
Quarterly report of the Project Manager to the JC Director of Planning or his designee and
the World Bank.
Full vearly report by the Project Manager to the JC Director of Planning and the World
Bank. This report will include updated project cost account tables and approved updates to
the Project Document and status of background studies for a possible follow t p loan.
Full Project completion Report no later than six months after loan closing date.



MATRIX OF KEY PROJECr ACTIVITIES
IMPLEME-
GENERAL I SPE;lFICOBUECTIVE               PROJECT COMPONENT I ACTIVf7Y                      PHYSICAL INDICATORS                     EXPECTED OUTPUT I IMPACT             NTATION
_   =                                                                                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SCHEDUL E
A. STRENGTHEN ADMwiRAflON OFfTHE JUDICIAL SYSTEM
Ince efficieny and productty
d system wide admninbWo
a) Strengthen management capacity of
the Judil Council (JC).
L}) Strnghr JC m     _meei and    i.l Mang_a and coontinabon study of the JC       Comnpktod stdy with reoommbndbon and      Adoption of plan for JC where Planning Director    Juty 92 -
inprove coordination             induding regiona otFcs.                          impementation plan.                        performs the coordination function. Increased  June 93
horizontal communication within the JC.
ii.) Develop mangme capacil through consultoc    Trained sud in mnaugement anah-i          Improvefmen in managemefnt analysis.       Febniay 94-
and training in Operation & System Dwision of                                                                                         July 94
Planning Directorate.
IL) Institue programn budgefing   L.) Study to design budgeting. accounting.       Completed study with implement-           Adopted implementation                      July 93 - 
and planning.                     and reporting procedures                         ation plan including training             plan                                        June 94      tQ
ii.) Impement program budgeting through         Program budgeting used for budget          Reduction in budget                        January 94 -
contsultandes training and equipment            planning and expenditure reponfing         variance and arrears                       June 94
(JC and regional offtces).
ifi.) Develop management information    i.) Studies to identify information and statistics  1.) Completed study on courtroom  List of workload, cost                     January93-
system.                           required for management & policy decisions      workload and performance statistics        and performance indicators                 Jurne 93
to be collected from
ii.) Completed study on indicators of     courtrooms
private swcor cost
ii.) Implement MIS through consultancies,       L) Completed study of hardware and software  Identifcation of 10% worst and best perorming  July 93 -
training and equipment (JC and regional offices)  options and requirements.               courts targeted for further analysis.       June 94
ii.) Hardware and software installed with training   Increased accountability by indiviual courts for    January 93 -
of central and regional staff.           their performance.                          June 94
iil.; -arterly reports to the management and  Increased public credibility in the courts resulting    January 93 -
annual reports to the public.            from transparency in court performance and sources June 94
of delay.
f >
* >



MATRIX OF KEY PROJECT AC7IVMfIES
IMPLEME-
GENERAL I SPECIFIC OBJECTIVE               PROJECTCOMPONENT I ACTIVIY                           PhYSICALINDICATORS                       EXPECTED OUTPUT / IMPACT              NTATION
SCHEDUL
=01             ,       .*.'u,,,                                       -S  $4 »&    %...---',..;.                                                                       
iv.) Develop capacity for planning  i.) Study of the organization and management of   i.) Completed study with recommendations for  Adoption of plans to develop JC capacity and  July 92 -
physlcal infrastructure            infrastructure planning and execution.             improved coordination with MINDUR through the   coordination with MINDUR and state govemments.  December 93
Infrastructure Working Group and strengthen
capacity in JC.
i.) Develop planning capacity through consultancies.  ii.) Trained staff, current on-line database.  Court construction, rehabilitation, upgrading and    January 93 -
training, and equipment                           Maintenance and space use manual.           maintenance consistent with JC and project priorities. December 93
v.) Stregthen human resource planning   i.) Develop database and personnel MIS with appropriate   On-line database with with staff capacity to  Accurate and timely empirical estimates of policy    July 93 -
and operations                    training and equipment                             analyze human resource policy changes.      changes.                                     June 94
ii.) Study of training needs and training plan    Identification of training needs and options for  Detailed annual training plans including  July 93 -
for JC and court staff.                           the couts, regional offices and JC staff.  list of trainees                              December 93
Hi.) Implement training plan through specification  Number of staff trained by location and subject    Increased staff productivity.       January 93 -
of curriculum and contracting its delivery.       compared with the plan.                                                                  June 94
vi.) Increase technical assistance  i.) Reorient JC court inspectors to improving court  Superintendents retained and technical   Court administrative problems more quickly   January 93 -
to the courts                       performance.                                      assistance manuals developed.               resoived.                                    December 94
ii.) Increase horizontal communication between court  Annual regional and national conferences of  More rapid dissemination of best practices  January 93 -
personnel.                                        court administrators.                      in court administration..                    June 94
vii.) Improve audit quality.       I.) Train personnel of Intemal Audit Directorate.  Percent of staff trained. Study tours completed.    Increased audit selectivity and quality.  August 93 -
December 94
viii.) Modemize records management   i.) Diagnostic studies of operations and management of    Complted studies with evaluation of options.  Implementation plan adopted.     January 93 -
court records in cental locations.                                                                                                        June 94
B.) Implement plan to modemize records management    Equipment Installed and staff trained.   Reduction i: storage cost per case, f-., ta  January 95 -
access fils, number ot files lost           December 95
Ix.) Improv management of udIial   1) Dignostic studies of financial management of   Completed studies with evaluation of optiom.  tncr"'asnd qualify of financial reporting and  Jul 93 -
depost                             jdiial deposits in courts.                                                                    accrrnting.                                  June 94
b.) Strengthen regional offices
L) Develop admnstativ capaciy.     L.) Evaluation   re9ginal office personnel end     Complted evaluation; Identification        Adoption of datffing and trainng plan.       July 93 -
training needs                                    of staffing and training requrements                                                    December93
crO
e( a



MATRIX OF KEY PROJECT ACIVITIES
IMPLEWE-
GENERAL J SPECIFIC OBJECTIVE               PROJECT COMPONENT  ACTIVITY                          PHYSICAL INDICATORS                      EXPECTEDOUTPUTI IMPACT                NTATION
SCHEDULE
."RX~~~~~ ~ __g            ,-4X _  x _:  _  
ii.) Train *Juez Rectorese and other regional     Number of people trained                    Quarterly reports on regional office workload and    January IZ
staff in administrative procedures                                                            perfornance parameters.                      June 94
ii.) Develop communications link with    i.) Design of on-line communication network  Identity hardware and software             Improved consistency and eflectiveness in     July 93 -
Judicial Council.                   between regional and central office               requirements                                regional communication.                      December 93
ii.) Provide training, consultant and equipment   Functioning system with                     Improved quality and timeliness of infonmatics  January 94 -
for implementation                                trained staff                               Response time to information demand          December 94
by users decreases from 30 to 1 day.
c.) Inform JC decision making.          i.) Carry out studies of aocess by poor.           Studies completed.                          Decisions leading to improved               January 93 -
private costs of litigation, alternative                                                     resource allocation.                          June 94
dispute resolution.
B. COURTROOM ADMINISTRATION
a) Increase efficiency and productivity
of courtroom operations.
i.) Demonstrate alternatves for    i.) Study of administrative procedures and linkages to delay i.) Completed study with redesigned  Administrative manuals for court and      January 93 -
courtroom & public defender (PD) office                                               procedures.                                 public defender personnel.                   March 93
procedure and automation
ii.) Automate pilot courtrooms and public defender offices  ii.) Functioning pilots with required hardware.  Increases in etFiciency and productivity  Ju!y 93 -
with redesigned procedures.                       software, and trained court personnel.      demonstrated to court and PD personnel.      December93
iii.) Evaluate pilot implementation and design implementatio iii.) Written evaluation widely disseminated;  Workplan prepared in advance of  Sept 93 -
procedures.                                      implementation design completed.             mid-term project review.                     December 93
ii.) Increase productivity of courtrooms & i.) Implement revised administrative procedures and  i.) Administrative procedures adopted.  Reduced case backlogs: time to case disposition    July 94 -
PD offices through revised procedures.  basic equipment in urban courtrooms and PD offices.  staff trained, and equipment installed.  reduced an average 25% given caseload.  Juns 96
ii.) Implement revised administrative procedures and  D.) Administrative procedures adopted.  Reduced case backlogs: time to case disposition    July 96 -
basic equipment in rural courtrooms and PD ofFices.  staff trained, and equipment installed.  reduced an average 25% given caseload.       December 97
iii.) Increase productivity of courtrooms & i.) Implement automated systems with equipment training, i.) Automated systems operating in atleast  Reduced case backlogs; time to case disposition    January 94 -
PD offices through automation.    and supplies and maintenance (S&M) to targeted large  50% of nation's courtrooms and PD offices.  reduced 50% (relative to 1993) given caseload;  December 97
courtrooms and PD offices in each stale.                                                     ratio of staff to caseload reduced 25%
(relative to 1993).
1%
%A



VENEZUELA - JUDICIAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
MATRIX OF KEY PROJECT ACTIVIES
JMPLEME-
GENFRAL /SPECIFICOBJECTIVE                 PROJECT COMPONENT /ACTIVIY                           PHYSICAL INDICATORS                      EXPECTED OUTPUT IMPACT                NTATION
SCHEDULE
............~~~ p .fi:. j. X.,....:Zj ':..:.X.' '.:,..:':.:..::.....,;.:, ~ ~   .
iv.) Improve communication and statistic i.) Develop formats and mechanisms           Data forms and operational manuals.        Court personnel report monthly statistics    January 93 -
reporting                         for recording, oonsulting and exchanging caseload                                             to regional office within one week after close  June 93
inforrnation with regional and central offices.                                               of month.
ii.) Automate statistical reporting and           Hardware (including modems) and software    Regional offices have immediate access to local    June 93 -
local-regional communication.                     installed court personnel trained.          statistics; local courts immediately informed of  December 93
regional & national administrative guidelines.
I.) Increased access by courl personnel i.) Provide essential legal information to each court  Legal codes and texts available in each court  Reduced delays: better-informed and more  January 93 -
to legal information                                                                                                             consistent judicial decisions.               December 93
C JUDICIAL TRAING AND INFORMATION
a) Improve Administrative capacity and
knowledge of courtroom personnel.
i.) Increase administrative and bgal    1.) Diagnostic study of administrative and legal knowledge  Completed study of knowledge and needs.  Specification of training requirements for sitting  January 93 -
knowledge of courtroom personnel    (emrphasis on comomercial law).                                                             judges and staff.                             December 93   en
through training.
II.) Design curriculum for sitting judges and court staff.  Curriculum design for short courses;  Training plan adopted.                   January 93 -
regional conference.                                                                    December 94
iii.) Train the trainers (sitting judges and administrators), and Training completed (by consultants), including  Capacity to deliver short-tem training  July 9r
Judicial School Advisory Board (JSAB) members.    travel by trainers and Judicial School staff
& JSAB to exemplary foreign training institutions.
iv.) Implement training.                          Sitting judges and administrators trained.  Increased receptivity to and implementation  January 93 -
ot administrative reforms by court personnel;  December 97
improved consistency in legal opinion.
i.) Improve administrative and egal    i.) Study (including travel) of successful foreign models of  Study completed, including analysis of how  Changes in existing model decided.  January 95 -
knowledge of future judges.       judicial education and diagonosis of existing Venezuelan   to contract for delivery of instructional services                              December 96
model.
ii.) Course design and preparation of course      Curriculum specified and material and       Training plan adopted.                      January 97 -
material and equipment                            equipment purchased.                                                                     December 97
$tm



VENEZUELA - JUDICIAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
MATRIX OF KEY PROJECr ACIVlTIES
IMPLEME-
GENERAL / SPECIFIC OBJECTIVE               PROJECT COMPONEN  I ACTfVITrY                        PHYSICAL NDICATORS                       EXPECTED OUTPUT I IMPACT              NTATION
SCHEDULE
f. PHYSICAL INRA UCTURE
%Cilitate piot rcoudt implementation
L) Upgrade & rehaitate pilot couns  Buildings mnodiartions estimated at               Buildings remodled with                     Pilots begin on schedule.                    January 93 -
in Caracas, Carmbobo. and Argua.    USS 160,000.                                      common work areas.                                                                       June 93
il.) Develop long range investment plan  I.) Studies to determine inventory of stock  Complted studies                            Better courtroom space and availability      January 93 -
and identity future needs for courtroorn space                                                                                             June 93
I.) Prepare investment plan for 1994-97           Completed plan                              Coordinate investment with                   Jul 93 -
automation.                                  December 93
ii.) Upgrade, rehabilitate and constuct  i.) Establish standard courroom design       Manual of coudtroom layout                  Uniformity in courtroom facilities           July 93 -
courtoom and public defender offices:  and space use                                  and space use norms                                                                      December 93
Upgrade 350                    ii.) Evaluate plan for judicial complexes          Cormpleted proposal                         Layout and plan formalized                  July 93-
Construct wad refib. 250        in big ciies                                                                                                                               Dooember 93   C
Caracas 151 *
Apure - San Fernando 13 #    i.) Identiy construction schedule and material  Procure locailmported materials             Reduction in constuction delays              June 94 -
Zulia - Maracaibo 580     reqnirements                                       Completed GANTT schedule                                                                 June 97
Barinas - Bolivar 15 1
Nueba Espada - Porla Mar 130 iv.) Modemizelupgrade facilities                 Install equipment and accesories           Increase safety and reliability of services  January 93 -
for computer istallaion and operation        June 97
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
a.) Effective projet implementaon
i.) Establish Project Implementation  Proiect management                             Bidding documents, temis of                 Compleion of all proiect components.         January 93 -
Unit (Pt)                                                                            reference and reports and                                                                December97
solutons to implmenatn
problms.
b.) Prepare possibb flow on prot.    Preparation studies.                              StudIs completed.                           Projec Idenfliod and prepared.               July 94 -
December 97
ItR



- 47 -
Annex 7
Page 1 of 2
VENEZUELA
JUDICIAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
PROJECT PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
The following indicators will be used to assess project performance, with baseline measures to be
prepared by the second quarter of 1993:
Institutional Development of the Judicial Counci&
1.   Percentage of courts having minimum required supplies, as determined by the study referred to
in Part A. 1 (a) of Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and as assessed in the reports of Inspectors
or Judges (Juez Rector3.
2.   Ratios of salaries of judicial personnel relative to the executive branch of government and relative
to the private sector as measured in annual surveys conducted by the Personnel Division all in
accordance with a methodology satisfactorv to the Bank.
3.   Quantity and quality of statistical information available for decisions by the Consejo as measured
by elapsed response time to inquiries made by the Consejo Magistrates and Senior Management
and as evaluated by the Project Implementation Unit.
4.   Capacity to carry out in-house analyses of budgetary and resource allocation issues and physical
infrastructure planning as reflected in the number and quality of such analyses, to be recorded by
the Project Implementation Unit.
5.   Quantity and quality of support (legal, administrative, and technical) to the courts by the Inspectors
and the Regional Offices, as measured by judge's opinions as reflected in annual anonymous
surveys.
6.   Quality of court financial audits as evaluated by an independent auditor-consultant.
Modernization of Court Administration
1.   Evaluation of Court Performance Indicators for: (a) All courts; (b) courts with automated case
tracking systems; and (c) courts without such systems.
I/   Judicial Council and Consejo are uced interchangeably.



- 48 -
Annex 7
Page 2 of 2
2.   Average cost of court output calculated by dividing total recurrent costs (Spanish term) including
personnel salaries by the weighted number of final judgements and interlocutory appeal decisions
by type of court and subject matter for: (a) all coJrts; (b) courts with automated case tracking
systems; and (c) courts without such systems.
3.   Average quality of judicial performance as determined by an evaluation committee of the Consejo
on the basis of: (a) legal knowledge; (b) analytic technique; and (c) other criteria specified iP the
Borrower's Ley de Carrera Judicial dated December 30, 1980, and other existing resolutions of
the Consejo.
4.   Average number of cases represented before the court by Public Defenders.
5.   Percentage of cases, in which a Public Defender is acting, ending in releases (libertados
obtenidos), acquittals (sentencias absolutorias), convictions (sentencias condenatorias) and case
closings without judgements (cesasion de procedirientos).
6.   Percentage of courts having case management tracking systems.
Institutional Strengthening of the Judicial Council
1.   Percentage of working judicial personnel by target group having received a minimum of twenty
hours of instruction in court administration.
2.   Percentage of new appointments of judicial personnel by target group having received a minimum
of twenty hours of instruction in court administration.
3.   Success of ESCUELA training courses in effectively delivering knowledge as measured by the
evaluation methodology to be developed under the Project.
4.   Percentage of working judicial personnel by target group having attended a regional or national
meeting of peers within the past twelve months.
Construction and Upgrading of Courts
Percentage of courtrooms meeting minimum standards, agreed between the Borrower and the
Bank, for:  (a) manual technology; (b) simple automated technology; and (c) common
administrative functions.
All the above indicators shall be applied by utilizing a methodology acceptable to the Bank.



- 49 -
Annex 8
Page 1 of 2
VENEZUELA
JUDICIAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
AGENDA AND CRITERIA FOR MIID-TERM REVIEW
A comprehensive mid-term review of the Project would be jointly conducted by the Government
and the Bank about two years after project effectiveness, by December 31, 1994. This review would
include project results to date, including completed studies; work plans for the year following the review,
including the pilot replication plan; and reach agreements on any modifications in project design or
activities to carry out project objectives, including the pilot replication and studies to be carried out
subsequent to the review.
The following would be compiled and submitted to the Bank by the mid-term review:
1 .   Completed studies to: (a) assess the level of budgetary allocations required for operational supplies
of the courts and public defender offices; (b) identify priority areas in procedural law related to
the project obje!ctives and which merit further in depth analysis; (c) develop a reliable inventory
of court buildings and equipment, standard models of courtroom design, and a long-term
investment plan; (d) assess the adequacy of salaries of all judicial personnel; (e) identify and
evaluate the effectiveness and impact of existing alternative dispute solution methods in Venezuela;
(f) evaluate alternative means to improve access to justice for the poor; (g) assess and monitor the
private costs of litigation; (h) assess alternatives for a computerized data base on statutory and case
law; and (i) all other studies completed under each of the project components by the date of the
mid-term review.
2.   Project performance indicators for March 31 and September 30 of 1993 and 1994.
3.   Quarterly progress reports and annual progress reports for 1993 and 1994.
4.   The Annual Action Plans for aii project components for January 1 - December 31, 1995.
5.   Evidence that each of the Implementation Agencies for the court construction component will have
made binding commitments to participate and finance their portion of the 1995 annual plan.
6.   The proposed program for replication of the pilots and the components on that program made by
consultant contracted to carry out external evaluation of the pilots.
7.   Court performance indicators fot individual courts and public defender offices, average measures
of such indicators, and icasibility of publication of individual court performance indicators.



- 50 -
Annex 8
Page 2 of 2
The criteria for the review would be:
1.   Completion of the Action Plans for January 1, 1993 - June 30, 1994, for the first three project
components.
2.   Status of the implementation of the physical infrastructure component.
3.   Status of the Project's Work Plan for July 1, 1994 - June 30, 1995, proposed by the Government
and agreed to by the Bank by March 31, 1994.
4.   Project performance indicators for the four project components as measured on a semi-annual basis
beginning March 31, 1993.
5.   External evaluation of the pilots of organization models in selected courts and public defender's
offices.



- 51 -
Annex 9
Page 1 of 3
VENEZUELA
JUDICIAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT OF THE JUDICIAL COUNCIL
Action Plan: January 1. 1993 - June 30. 1994
A.   June 1. 1993 - June 30. 1993
1.   (a)   Employ, not later than January 15, 1993, and maintain thereafter, a consultant, with
qualifications and experience and under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, to assist the
Consejo in carrying out a study of the statistics requirements for the Consejo management and
policy decisions, to advise the Statistics Division on the development of an annual Court Statistics
Publication, and to assist the Statistics Division analyze court statistical information for that
purpose; and
(b)   have all the activities in (a) above completed not later than June 30, 1993.
2.   Employ, not later than January 15, 1993 and maintain thereafter, a consultant, with qualifications
and experience and under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, for one year to assist the
Maintenance Division in the Administration Directorate in prioritizing investment and maintenance,
coordinate with the Projects Unit of the Planning Directorate and MINDUR, develop a
maintenance manual, and establish standards and norms for court space use.
3.   Prepare bidding documents not later than April 1, 1993, for 20 mini-computers and peripherals
and management and statistical software for the, Project Implementation Unit, the Planning
Directorate the Statistics Division and the Budget Division of the Planning Directorate, the
Personnel Directorate, the Internal Control Directorate, the Insnectorate Directorate, the
Administration Directorate, and the General Archives Division in the General Secretariat.
B.   July 1. 1993 - December 31. 1993
1.   (a)   Employ, not later than July 15, 1993, and maintain thereafter, a consultant, with
qualifications and experience and under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, to assist the
Consejo to plan, develop, and implement a personnel data base for the Personnel Directorate; and
(b)   have all activities in (a) above completed not later than June 30, 1994.



- 52 -
Annex 9
Page 2 of 3
2.   (a)   Employ, not later than July 15, 1993, a consultant, with qualifications and experience and
under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, to assist the Consejo to analyze training needs
of Consejo administrative support personnel (including those in the regions) and develop a training
plan for 1993-1997; and
(b)   have all activities in (a) above completed not later than December 31, 1993.
3.   Carry out, not later than December 31, 1993, a study tour for the senior management (5 persons)
of the Inspectorate Directorate, of inspection systems in three to four selected countries, to be
agreed between the Borrower and the Bank.
4.   (a)   Employ, not later than September 30, 1993, a consultant, with qualifications and experience
and under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, to assist the Consejo to analyze inspection
procedures and outcomes, recommend changes thereof, develop a procedural manual, and design
and deliver a course to provide required training; and
(b)   have all activities in (a) above completed not later than March 31, 1994.
5.   Employ, not later than July 15, 1993, a consultant, with qualifications and experience and under
terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, to assist the Statistics Division for one year to assess
the reliability of court statistics, to assist the Project Implementation Unit to develop baseline
measures of the Performance Indicators, to develop manuals and training for Inspectors to assess
data reliability, and to assist the Statistics Division in the preparation and publication of published
statistical reports for 1993 and 1994.
6.   Employ, not later than July 15, 1993, and maintain thereafter, a consultant, with qualifications and
experience and under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, to assist the Budget Division for
one year to implement program budgeting, develop an operational manual, and train personnel in
its use.
7.   Employ, not later than July 15, 1993, and maintain thereafter, a consultant, with qual]  ations and
experience and under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, to assist the Co-..ejo to develop
an investment plan for court rehabilitation and construction for the period 1994-1997 by not later
than December 31, 1993.
8.   (a)   Employ, not later than July 15, 1993, and maintp'  thereafter, a consultant, with
qualifications and experience and under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, to assist the
Consejo to develop norms and standards for courtroom space and layout by type of court based
on results of the implementation of the Court Organization Models in the Selected Courts; and
(b) have the activities in (a) above completed not later than December 31, 1993.



- 53 -
Annex 9
Page 3 of 3
C.   January 1. 1994 - June 30, 1994
1.   Identify, not later than January 15, 1994, auditors in the Internal Control Directorate to receive
specialized training in auditing, and train one-quarter of such auditors by not later than December
31, 1994.
2.   (a)  Employ, not later than February 1, 1994, and maintain thereafter, a consultant, with
qualifications and experience and under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, to assist the
Consejo to develop a data base, filing system, operational manual, and training course in auditing,
and train the professional staff of the Internal Control Directorate; and
(b) have all activities in (a) above completed not later than June 30, 1994.
3.   Employ, not later than February 1, 1994, and maintain thereafter, a consultant, with qualifications
and experience and under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, to assist the Organization and
Systems Division of the Planning Directorate for six months to train staff in management analysis.
4.   Prepare bidding documents, not later than March 31, 1994, for the installation of a local area
network for the Planning Directorate.
5.   (a)   Employ, not later than February 1, 1994, and maintain thereafter, a consultant, with
qualifications and experience and under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, to assist the
Consejo to determine record keeping policy, to develop an automated system of file control, to
specify hardware and software requirements for the General Archive Division of the General
Secretariat; and
(b)   have all activities in (a) above completed not later than June 30, 1994.
6.   (a)   Employ, not later than February 1, 1994, and maintain thereafter, a consultant, with
qualifications and experience and under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, for one year
to assist the Consejo to review and analyze current systems for handling judicial deposits and their
financial implications and recommend changes in current policy and to study the setting of judicial
fees and alternative policies for revising present policies; and
(b)   have the activities in (a) above completed not later than June 30, 1994.
7.   (a)   Employ, not later than January 15, 1994, and maintain thereafter, a consultant, with
qualifications and experience and under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, to carry out a
study of private sector costs of litigation and develop cost indicators to be annually collected and
reported in the Statistics Division's annual report; and
(b)   have the activities in (a) above completed not later than June 30, 1994.



- 54 -
Annex 10
Page 1 of 2
VENEZUELA
JUDICIAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
MODERNIZATION OF COURTROOM ADMINISTRATION
Action Plan: January 1. 1993 - June 30. 1994
A.   January 1. 1993 - June 30. 1993
1.   (a)   Carry out all necessary action to permit the initiation of the implementation of the
Organization Models in the Selected Courts and Public Defender Offices not later than June 30,
1993, and for such purposes, employ, not later than February 1, 1993, a consultant ("the
implementation consultant"), with qualifications and experience and under terms of reference
acceptable to the Bank, to assist the Consejo in carrying out the following work:
(i)   Review  court organization and case processing procedures, specifying which
procedures are set by law, which by Consejo regulation, and which by custom. Any
changes which would require legal modification should be so indicated.
(ii)  Define procedures and develop procedural manuals for both manual and automated
case processing and test with the Selected Courts.
(iii) Develop and test the software required for the Organization Models and prepare
documentation for purchase of necessary equipment.
(b)   complete the activities in (a) above not later than June 30, 1993.
2.   (a)   Employ, not later than February 1, 1993 and maintain thereafter, a consultant (promotion
consultant), with qualifications and experience and under terms of reference acceptable to the
Bank, to assist the Consejo to develop promotional materials regarding the Court Organization
Models and court automation generally, to organize formal presentations for court personnel, and
to disseminate materials and make presentations at the sites of the Selected Courts and Public
Defender Offices; and
(b)   have the activities in (a) above completed not later than June 30, 1993.



- 55 -
Annex 10
Page 2 of 2
B.   July 1. 1993 - December 31. 1993
1.   With the assistance of the implementation consultant, not later than July 31, 1993, complete
software development and commence implementation, not later than September 1, 1993, of the
Organization Models in the Selected Courts and Public Defender Offices.
2.   With the assistance of the consultant referred to in Section 3.06 of the Loan Agreement (evaluation
consultant), carry out a preliminary evaluation of the Organization Models in the Selected Courts
and Put'ic Defender Offices not later than December 15, 1993, and present recommnendations to
the Project Implementation Unit not later than December 31, 1993.
3.   With the assistance of the promotion consultant, disseminate materials and make presentations on
court automation and revised administrative procedures to courts, agreed between the Consejo and
the Bank, not later than December 31, 1993.
4.   Prepare bidding documents and purchase and disseminate minimum necessary legal reference
materials, agreed with the Bank, to all First Instance and Superior courts in the country not later
than December 31, 1993.
C.   January 1. 1994 - June 30. 1994
1.   With the assistance of the implementation consultant, adapt implementation procedures following
the advice of the evaluation consultant and complete the implementation of the Organization
Models in the Selected Courts and Public Defender Offices not later than March 30, 1994.
2.   Prepare bidding documents and purchase and disseminate minimum required office equipment
(typewriters, photocopiers, simple word processors) to a First Instance and Superior courts selected
by the Consejo and the Bank and which courts have adequate physical infrastructure, commencing
not later than March 1, 1994, and ending not later than June 30, 1994.



- 56 -
Annex 11
Page 1 of 2
VENEZUELA
JUDICIAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT OF THE JUDICIAL SCHOOL
Action Plan: January 1. 1993 - June 30. 1994
A.   January 1. 1993 - June 30. 1993
1.   (a)   Employ, not later than March 31, 1993, and maintain thereafter, a consultant ("consultant
(A)"), with qualifications and experience and under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, to
assist the Escuela staff and the Judicial Advisory Commission to, inter alia, determine training
priorities and appropriate teaching technologies (including distance learning), to identify
instructors, to test courses, to develop an evaluation methodology and evaluate pilot courses, to
prepare a long-term training plan, and to organize periodic conferences for judicial personnel; and
(b)   have all the activities in (a) above completed by December 31, 1994.
B.   July 1. 1993 - December 31. 1993
1.   Organize and carry out, not later than July 15, 1993, a tour, agreed between the Consejo and the
Bank, by members of the Judicial Advisory Commission, Escuela staff, and Consultant (A) to the
United States or other countries to observe best practice in the continuing education of judicial
personnel.
2.   Employ not later than July 15, 1993, and maintain thereafter, a consultant, with qualifications and
experience and under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, to assist the Escuela on continuing
education of current court personnel and organization of annual conferences of judicial personnel,
including several trips to Venezuela for a total of twelve months between the first quarter of 1994
and the fourth quarter of 1995.
3.   (a)   Complete study of training priorities nut later than July 1, 1993, and hold regional meetings,
not later than December 31, 1993, with court personnel to present findings and seek further input;
and
(b)   exchange views with the Bank, not later than March 15, 1994, on the results of the study
and the regional meetings.



- 57 -
Annex 1 1
Page 2 of 2
4.    Not later than September 30, 1993, identify a list of potential instructors for courses to be
organized by the Escuela.
5.   Develop, not later than December 31, 1993, at least one course on court administration to be
delivered in 1994 for each target group--current judges, administrators (Secretarios de Tribunales),
Public Defenders, and Inspectors.
C.   January 1. 1994 - June 30, 1994
1.   With the assistance of Consultant (A), develop evaluation methodology and evaluate outcomes of
the courses carried out during the period 1993-1994, not later than June 30, 1994.
2.    Organize and carry out, not later than March 31, 1994, a study tour, agreed between the Consejo
and the Bank, by instructors to observe continuing education in the United States or other
countries.
3.   With the assistance of Consultant (A), plan, not later than June 30, 1994, regional conferences on
court administration to be held during the third quarter of 1994.



- 58 -
Annex 12
Page 1 of 1
Bank Financing
Consult. Training    Eqpt. Unall.    Total
--- (US$ Millions) --------------
I. Judicial Administration                2.2       0.8       1.0             4.0
II. Courtroom Administration              2.5       1.3     15.6             19.4
Ill. Judicial Training                    1.0       2.3      0.3              3.6
IV. Physical Infrastructure               0.0       0.0      0.0              0.0
Project Implementation Unit               1.7       0.1      0.2              2.0
Unallocated                                                          1.0      1.0
PROJECT TOTAL                             7.4       4.5     17.1    1.0      30.0



- 59 -
Annex 13
Page 1 of 2
VENEZUELA
JUDICIAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
COURT PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
The Statistics Division of the Planning Directorate of the Judicial Council will annually, beginning
in 1993, publish a Statistical Report providing information on court workload and performance. The
Report will provide descriptive statistics aggregated at the regional and national level and will include an
annex providing performance indicators on each specific courtroom. The specific indicators to be
published for each court will include:
Productivity Index:
1. Number of sentences and judgements (sentencias) and interlocutory appeal decisions (autos
interlocutorios) for each court, by subject matter (tipo de providencia).
Efficiency Index:
1. Number of sentences and judgements and interlocutory appeal decisions divided by the number
of court employees.
2. Number of final sentences and judgements divided by the number of court employees.
Workload and Congestion Index:
1. Number of filings (procesos) that enter the court, divided by the number of final sentences and
judgements.
Processing Time for Civil and Special Cases:
1. For cases which have concluded, average time between case filing (ingreso del expediente) and
the final judgement divided by the maximum time established by law.
2. For cases which have not concluded, average time between case filing and the current date (at
which the case is reviewed by the investigator), divided by the maximum time established by law
for case filing to judgement.



- 60 -
Annex 13
Page 2 of 2
Processing Time for Penal Cases: Since several offices (police, prosecutor, investigating court, and the
judging court) are responsible for processing penal cases, the source of delays should be clearly
identified.
1. Average time between receipt of the complaint (denuncia) by the police to reception by the
investigative court (juez de instruccion), divided by the maximimum established by law.
2. Average time between formal filing with the investigative court and conclusion of the
investigation (concluido el sumario) divided by the maximum established by law.
3. Average time between receipt of the case by the prosecutor (fiscal) for review and receipt of
the prosecutor's opinion by the court, divided by the maximum established by law.



- 61 -
Annex 14_
Page 1 of 3
VENEZUELA
JUDICIAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
EVALUATION MIETHODOLOGY FOR THE PILOTS
The objective of the pilots is to improve judicial administrative processes and courtroom efficiency
by:
a.   Reducing the administrative load on judges to enable them to concentrate on judicial
matters.
b.   Improving the capacity of courtroom administrative assistants to manage administrative
processes.
c.   Enable the government to increase the number of judges without a corresponding increase
in staff.
d.   Improve attention to and information provided to the public.
e.   Increase the efficiency of the administration through streamlined procedures and automation
facilitating the training of assistants as judicial assistants.
f.   Improve the amount and quality of information provided to the Consejo for monitoring to
improve transparency of the judicial processes.
INDICATORS
The pilots should provide indicators to quantify achievements on each type of effect. The indicators
proposed are:
Productivity
1.   Number of cases closed (judgements, voluntary dismissals, dismissal by the court) in a period of
time (classified by type of decision).
2.   Proportion of terminations to new filings (with careful analysis of causal factors if there are
unusual increases or decreases).
3.   Number of pending (active and paralvzed) cases and average age of pending cases (classified by
"materia").
4.   Average filing-to-disposition time per case (cl2asified by "materia").



- 62 -
Annex 14
Page 2 of 3
5.   Number of hearings (audiencias and interrogatorios) performed by the judge in a period of time
(classified by type of action).
6.   Number of settlements acomplished by the judge per period of time.
7.   Amount in percentage and actual time (hours per day or week by judge on administrative matters
before and after the model is in place. (This could be done by each judge doing a time study.)
8.   Number of administrative employees per judge under tha classic model and the new models.
9.   Number of administrative employees per case filings and per terminations.
10.  Administrative performance by pools of administrative staff in the combined courts compared to
individual courts (for example: number of notificaciones completed by a pool of alguaciles
compared to number of notificaciones completed by a single alguacil in a period of time).
11.  Time dedicated by judicial administrative employees to provide information to lawyers and general
public per week (for example, quantify time savings because of a terminal at the counter).
Integrity of case files
12.  Nlimber of lost files before and after the model is in place.
13.  Time saved by judge and employees in reviewing casefiles under each model against traditional
(i.e. determining status and summary of case by reviewing docket sheet or information by
terminal instead of reviewing the whole case file).
Quality
14.  Quality of judicial decisions, performed by a review commitee of prominent judges and attorneys
for a selection of cases before and after the model.
15.  Evidence of knowledge of pricr jurisprudence as demonstrated in the judge's decision.
16.  Survey on quality of service to parties, lawyers and general public.
17.  Survey on working conditions to employees and general public.
18.  Availability and reliability of judicial statistics (opinion by employees, the Judicial Council and
other users).



- 63 -
Annex 14
Page 3 of 3
MEASUREMENT AND ANALYSIS
Indicators must be measured at the beginning of the pilot (baseline measurement), after the model
has been fully implemented and operating at least two months, and six months later. Gathering
information for baseline and two months evaluations should be a responsibility of the consulting firm
developing the models.
The results of the indicators should be reviewed to determine improvements or poor results.
Analyses of the indicators should not be limited to quantitative results, but should also evaluate the
qualitative aspects, as well.
COST-EFFECTIVENESS
Models should be economically feasible in order to be attractive to replication. Furthermore, it is
important to transform improvements in productivity into economic figures.
In order to satisfy this requirement, analysts should calculate the number of additional employees
needed to operate the tribunal in the same manner and with similar efficiency achieved with the new
model, and calculate the cost for the new personnel.
Differences in cost between the traditional organization's staff and the new model's team could be
used as a basic figure for economic evaluations.



- 64 -
Annex 15
Page 1 of 2
VENEZUELA
JUDICIAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
TERMIS OF REFERENCE
Study of the Required Recurrent Outlays of the Courts
STUDY: A study to determine court operational supply needs.
OFFICE OF INTEREST: Directorate of Administration of the Judicial Council.
TIME: A consultant should be hired by the third quarter of 1992 and the study completed not later than
January 31, 1993.
ESTIMATED NUMBER OF MAN MONTHS: Six
TYPE OF CONTRACTOR: Local
COOPERATION AND RESOURCES REQUIRED: Data should be provided as to what the actual
consumption has been by specific type of operational supplies at the different locations. Projections will
be needed of the additional new courts as well as the additional supply needs because of automation.
BACKGROUND: Records indicate that the amounts being allocated for operational supplies for court
related activities are insufficient for actual needs. The amount budgeted for 1992 reflects that there will
be a deficit of $1,176,480. It is obv:Xus that unless the funds for operational supplies are increased for
ensaing years, activities contemplated under the project will be adversely affected.
OBJECTIVE: The objective of the study will be to determine with greater accuracy what the budgetary
allocations should be for the operational supplies for all courts as well as the public defender offices.
ACTIVITIES: The contractor will accomplish the following activities during the study:
1. Determine what the actual consumption of operational supplies of each court and public defender
office was during the last three years through review of appropriate budget, procurement and
usage records. In those courts or offices where such records do not exist, such determination will
have to be made through surveys and interviews as needed.



- 65 -
Annex 15
Page 2 of 2
2. Determine with assistance of the Consejo staff and the Project staff what the incremental
increases of courts, public defender offices and related personnel will be during the life of the
project.
3. Determine what the increases in automation equipment, FAX machines, copiers, typewriters and
other office and court equipment will be in all courts and public defender offices as well as in
the new courts and offices to be created during the entire project.
4. Determine what the costs of all operational supplies by year will be for the period 1993 through
1998 for the projected total number of courts and public defender offices taking into consideration
the automation and other equipment needs as well as the proper inflationary factor.
5. Determine what method of procurement procedure for such supplies will be more cost-effective
and ascertain the costs of procurement, warehousing, distribution and delivery of such supplies.
In this regard, the contractor should take into consideration which supplies should be purchased
centrally for greater cost-savings on the economy of scale basis and which should be purchased
regionally or locally.
6. The contractor should also determine how much of a petty cash fund should be given by type and
size of court as well as for the public defender offices. The contractor should also recommend
what expepse items can be paid from the petty cash fund. A reimbursement procedure for such
purchasees should also be ascertained.
7. The contractor should assure that proper procurement regulations are followed and should
prepare a manual to specify the procurement, warehousing, distribution, requisitioning and usage
reporting procedures for court and public defender offices. This should include a determination
as to whether requisitions, reports, inventories, etc., should be through the regional
administrative office or the central office.
REPORTS: The contractor should prepare an overall action plan to accomplish the study. A mid-term
report should be prepared as of December 31, 1992, with a final report with the recommended manuals
submitted not later than Janaury 31, 1993.



- 66 -
Annex 16
Page 1 of 3
V'ENEZUELA
JUDICIAL INFRASTRUCTUtRE PROJECT
TERMIS OF REFERENCE
Study of Salaries of Judicial Personnel
STUDY: A study is required to determine what sliould be the salaries of all judicial personnel in the
judicial system of Venezuela, focusing primarily on the judges, secretarios, escribientes, aguaciles and
other related court administrative support staff, establishing job descriptions, job classifications, salary
entry levels; and recommending criteria for recruitment, promotions and salary increases for each
category of position.
OFFICE:  The consultant hired for this study should work with and report to the Chief of the Judicial
Council Personnel Directorate.
TIME: The consultant should be hired by April 1. 1993, and the study should be completed by June
30, 1994.
MAN/MONTHS FOR STUDY: It is estimated that it vwill require 27 man months to complete the study.
CONSULTANT: The consultant can be local or foreign but should be an entity which has had extensive
experience in personnel and salary administration as well as have par-ticipated in previous salary
determination studies in judicial or like systems.
COOPERATION/RESOURCES REQUIRED: The consultant will require the J1udicial Council to instruct
the JC staff and field courts to render full cooperation and assistance to the study team. Thne consultant
will also need to review local governmental pay salaries as well as review the salary systems of judicial
systems of other countries which have income levels similar to that of Venezuela.
BACKGROUND: In the present system, there are four categories of judges according to the level of
court where they preside. The salaries for these categories, however, are not the same for all judges,
even though they may have the same category designation, because some of these judges (and judicial
support staff) receive an addendum from the aranceles judiciales which other judges dlo not receive. This
causes an imbalance which results in resentment and dissatisfaction which may contlibute to corraption.
The establishment and proper implementation of a salary compensation system which is fair, adequate
and administered and controlled effectively are absolutely essential to assure that qualified judicial
personnel is appointed and retained, to give the judicial systern the integrity %%hich it must have for thie
effective administration of justice. Furthermore, the present practice of hiring centrally and the desire of
the Judicial Council to decentralize the hiring of court support staf'f to the regional or local level, requires
that uniform, standard basic qualificatiolns, testing and recruitment procedures, job discriptions, job
classifications, salary entry levels, personnel performance evaluation procedures and reporting,
promotional procedures, salary increases and disciplinary procedures be properly and fully developed for
uniforrm application throughout the judicial system.



- 67 -
Annex 16
Page 2 of 3
OBJECTIVE: The objective of the study is to provide a classification and salary plan which is responsive
to the needs of a modern judicial system to provide fair compensation for the judicial services performed
by the judges and their administrative support staff. The study should also result in a system which will
enable the establishment of greater career incentives not only for the judges but also witl the court
administrative support staff in order to permit the retention of qualified and experienced judicial personnel
for more effective administration of justice.
ACTIVITIES: The contractor wili accomplish the following:
1. Review the presen; classifications, salaries and other emoluments received by each judge and
court support staff at the different levels of categories and determine in which levels and to what
degree the salaries differ.
2. Determine if any studies and salary plans have been completed or are in process for the judiciary
to ascertain whether such data results can be useful to this study.
3. Ascertain %~hat laws, regulations and other governmental and judiciary guidelines exist and what
will be required to effect any changes recomniended from this study.
4. Review  the salary and classification procedures used in other Venezuelan Executive and
Legislative agencies to determine how the salaries for judicial personnel compare with other like
positions from the other governmental agencies.
5. Conduct interviews, desk audits and time studies of each personnel position at the various levels
and sizes of courts to determine what classifications and salaries should be assigned to each
position.
6. Review salary and personnel systems of other similar judicial systems to provide a comparison
basis with the existing and proposed changes.
7. After the appropriate review and analyses of the above data, develop effective and appropriate
uniform job des.riptions for each job classification, appropriate tests for each job classification,
application and recruitment proced3ures, job performance evaluation procedures and appropriate
reporting and review forms, promotion procedures, salaries for each position at the entry and
promotion stages for court suipport staff.
8. Develop a salary plan for judges for each level of court with appropriate increases as the judge
completes predetermineJ number of years of service.
9. Develop a formula to increace salaries for judicial personnel in accordance with the cost of living
inflationary increases.



- 68 -
Annex 16
Page 3 of 3
10. Prepare manuals on the personnel administration and salary compensation procedures accepted
by the Judicial Council as a result of the study for use by the central personnel office at the
Judicial Council, by the regional administrative offices and for use at each court. Such should
include the pertinent guides for each entity in conformance with the responsibilities to be
established at each respective level.
REPORTS REQUIRED: The consultant should prepare an overall action plan within the first quarter
after his selection by which he will outline how he proposes to accomplish the above objectives. He
should also submit a progress report not later than the fourth quarter of 1993 which reflects what has
been accomplished to date and what is still required to complete the assignment. A final report reflecting
the results of the study and recommendations to implement them should be submitted by June 30, 1994.



- 69 -
Annex 17
Page 1 of 2
VENEZUELA
JUDICIAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
TERMS OF REFERENCE: PROJECT MANAGER
TITLE: Project Manager, Judicial Infrastructure Project
LOCATION: Reports directly to the Director of the Planning Directorate of the Judicial Council (JC).
TIMING: Appointment of the Project Manager is a condition of project EFFECTIVENESS.
LENGTH: The Project Manager will serve for the duration of the Project, estimated to last five years.
REQUIRED BACKGROUND: Relevant management experience is the most important criterion for
selection of the Project Manager, who should have considerable experience as a senior manager of a large
public or private enterprise, preferably with experience in detailed project management. Academic
preparation would preferably be in management, engineering, or economics. The Project Manager should
have good interpersonal and leadership skills, with demonstrated ability to work with individuals of
diverse background and conflicting interests.
DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILMES:  The Project Manager has overall responsibility for project
execution being on time and within budget, and will:
(a) prepare a detailed project execution document as described below;
(b) direct and supervise the execution of the project according to the work program and schedule
detailed in the project execution document;
(c) coordinate the activities of the component managers and the administrative officer, staff and
consultants responsible for the implementation of the various project activities;
(d) review all terms of reference, evaluation methodologies, contracts, consultants' reports, etc.
before presenting them to the Bank;
(e) prepare and propose any necessary changes to the project execution document;



- 70 -
Annex 16
PAge 2 of 2
(f) set up and operate the Project Implementation Unit; and
(g) coordinate activities with the Bank;
PERFORMANCE INDICATORS: All activities carried out, contracts and acquisitions have been detailed
in the work program and agreed previously with the Bank; all activities detailed in the work program are
carried out on time and within budget.
PROJECT EXECUTION DOCUMENT: The project will be implemented on the basis of a document
called the "Project Execution Document" prepared by the JC and initially used for project definition and
approval. Once project implementation begins, it will be used for project control and as a history log.
After project termination, it will be used for the project evaluation. During implementation, the Project
Document will become a continuously growing file of all facets of the project, constituting a management
summary of the entire project and processes involved. The Project Document should contain at least the
following chapters:
- Executive Summary
- Table of Contents
- Background of the Project
- Assignment of Responsibilities (accountabilities, Project Document modification approval
mechanisms, Steering Committe if any).
- Project Detail: For every macroactivity, inciicate objectives, activities, results, measures of
quality or acceptance, measurement units, tests and mechanisms of approval of result, personnel
responsible for each test, range of acceptance (minimum, expected and excellent results), action
plans, costs and resources for each activity.
- Action Plan Summary: Schedule of activities, milestones, deliverables, acquisitions, contracts,
resources, in GANTT charts, Summary Budget and Accounting Tables, etc.
- Schedule and format of status reports



- 71 -
Annex 18
Page I of 1
VENEZUELA
JUDICIAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
TERMS OF REFERENCE: PROJECT COMPONENT MANAGER
TITLE: Project Component Manager, Judicial Infrastructure Project.
LOCATION: Reports to the Project Manager.
TIMING: Appointment of the Project Manager and three Component Managers is a condition of project
EFFECTIVENESS.
LENGTH: The Project Component Manager will serve for the duration of the Project, estimated to last
five years.
REQUIRED BACKGROUND: The Project Component Manager should have both strong technical
qualifications relevant to the area of responsibility (see below) as well as management experience in either
the public or private sectors. The PCM should have good interpersonal skills to facilitate coordination
between diverse offices within apd outside the Judicial Council.
PCM/Court Automation: Should have a background in systems engineering or related area and have
experience in the design of computer systems.
PCM/lnfrastructure: Should have a background in architecture and management.
PCM/Judicial Council: Should have a background in law and management.
DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES: The Component Manager has responsibility for component
execution being on time and within budget, and will:
(a) direct and supervise the execution of the component according to the work program and
schedule detailed in the project execution document;
(b) coordinate the activities of the staff and consultants responsible for the implementation of the
various component activities;
(c) prepare all terms of reference, evaluation methodologies, contracts, consultants' reports, etc.
concerning their component before presenting them to the Project Manager;
(d) prepare and propose any necessary changes to the component's section in the project
execution document to the Project Manager;
PERFORMANCE INDICATORS: All activities detailed in the work program are carried out on time
and within budget



- 72 -
Anne_L9_
Page 1 of 1
VENEZUELA
JUDICIAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
LOCAL BIDDING PROCEDURE
ACCORDINGi TO LEY DE UCITACIONES
- 1990 BIDDINGi IS CLASSIFIED AS:   
GENERAL                                         SELECTIVE
"doile 4. of rsidding Law                    Aticl 5. of Bidding Low
CLASSIFICATION RANGE:                            CLASSIFICATION RANGE.
Goods & Services   10 Mil. Br.                  Goods & Srvices - I to 10 MiO. s.
Works i 30 Mn. as.                             Works-lO to 30 MD8. 3s.
PROCESS STAGES t4.'5 Month)    |                 PROCESS STAGES (213 Month)
Initiation of the process.                   Prepradon of short st.
Receipt of Intent from                       Notiflcalton of pre-selection
company participating.                       and invitaion.
Pr-salection of                              Receipt of sealed bids and
partcipants.                                 opening o0 bids.
Notification of pre-selecton                 Bid analysis.
and invitation.                              Selection of contretor.
Receipt & opening of bids.                   Award of contract.
Bid anlysis.
Selecton of contractor.
Awad of contract.
- COURT CONSTRUCTION -                           - COURTREHAILTrA TIOIV



1-                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   12
TRINIDAD
A ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A
VENEZUELA
C,. 500 ..1                                 -                               ''7 =1=/
-  OZ                              '\ JOeIe,d B                                                                                                                                                                    I
6 ~         ~          rATOB /                                                                                                                                                                         -  )  )GUYANA          6
200-500                                                                                                                                       6269. 
0.200A'-
-        MAjor R..d,                                                 , )                                                                                 A2                           A2
Ri-.TB                                                    ,
SeerItd CilieB -d TAG-B                                          *                                                                                                                         IBg  2 AAAATAAAA    -
6    Stth A F.dAr-1 T-r1.rTy CAphI.Al
2    NATi-l CApPitAI1                                                 .                                                                    2. BA                \
SIATB ATFod mIerol .TAOy DoATdATiAB                   >\,          \\.                                                                                        _f
.                              ,_FS-                                           COLOMBIA                                      . 2,y
2           10           i 22         300 220/-   t                                                                                                                                             '7 B-



