                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                        Report No: 26173

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                (CPL-35140; SCL-3514A; SCPD-3514S)

                                                  ON A

                                                  LOAN

                                IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 30 MILLION

                                                 TO THE

                              BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF VENEZUELA

                                                 FOR A

                      JUDICIAL INFRASTRUCTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT




                                              June 28, 2003




Bolivia, Ecuador, Peru, and B.R. of Venezuela Country Management Unit
Poverty Reduction and Economic Management, Sector Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                            CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                        (Exchange Rate Effective June 27, 2003)

                              Currency Unit = Bolivares (Bs)
                                   Bs 1598 = US$ 1.00
                              US$ 0.00063 = Bs 1.00

                                   FISCAL YEAR
                            January 1   -    December 31

                        ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


CAS              Country Assistance Strategy
COPP             Organic Code for Criminal Procedure
D.E.M.           Dirección Ejecutiva de la Magistratura
ICR              Implementation Completion Report
ICT              Information and Communication Technology
IT               Information Technology
IESA             Institute of Advanced Administration Studies
JC               Judicial Council
JURIS 2000       Integrated Case Management System Software
LCR              Latin American and the Caribbean Region
LOPNA            Law for the Protection of Children and Adolescents
MOP              Memorandum of the President
NGO              Non-Governmental Organization
OED              Operations Evaluation Department
PCU              Project Coordination Unit
QAG              Quality Assurance Group
SAR               Staff Appraisal Report
SIGECOF          Intergrated Financial Management System
TSJ              Supreme Tribunal of Justice




                            Vice President:    David de Ferranti
                 Country Manager/Director:     Marcelo Giugale
                           Sector Director:    Ernesto May
                           Sector Manager:      Ronald E. Myers
           Task Team Leader/Task Manager:      Waleed Haider Malik

                                        VENEZUELA
              JUDICIAL INFRASTRUCTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            15
6. Sustainability                                                                16
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 17
8. Lessons Learned                                                               19
9. Partner Comments                                                              20
10. Additional Information                                                       22
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             24
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             30
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             32
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             33
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             35
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                36
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            37
Annex 8. List of Contributors                                                    38

Project ID: P008233                                                      Project Name: VE JUD.INFRA DEV
Team Leader: Waleed Haider Malik                                         TL Unit: LCSPS
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                       Report Date: June 30, 2003


1. Project Data

                   Name: VE JUD.INFRA DEV                                         L/C/TF Number: CPL-35140; SCL-3514A;
                                                                                                     SCPD-3514S
   Country/Department: VENEZUELA                                                          Region: Latin America and
                                                                                                     Caribbean Region

        Sector/subsector: Law and justice (100%)
                  Theme: Judicial and other dispute resolution mechanisms (P); Legal
                            institutions for a market economy (P); Access to law and justice (P)

KEY DATES
                                                                               Original               Revised/Actual
         PCD:    10/04/1991                                        Effective: 03/30/1994              03/30/1994
   Appraisal:    03/27/1992                                            MTR:
    Approval:    08/06/1992                                         Closing: 12/30/1997               10/31/2002

    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF VENEZUELA /JUDICIAL
                                           COUNCIL/DIRECCION EJECUTIVA DE LA MAGISTRATURA OF THE
                                           SUPREME TRIBUNAL OF JUSTICE
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 David de Ferranti                              Shahid Hussain
Country Director:               Marcelo Giugale                                Armeane Choksi
Sector Manager:                 Ronald E. Myers                                Shahid A. Chaudhry
Team Leader at ICR:             Waleed H. Malik                                Donald R. Winkler
ICR Primary Author:             Hermann Nissenbaum;
                                Alexandra Habershon


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                          Outcome:S

                     Sustainability:L

Institutional Development Impact:SU

               Bank Performance:S

           Borrower Performance:S


                                                      QAG (if available)              ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The Judicial Infrastructure Project derived from Government desires for remedying deficiencies in
Venezuela's judicial system. These centered around the need to make the Judiciary more efficient, effective
and transparent. When the Project was designed, the judicial system suffered from inefficient and
cumbersome management and procedures, case delays, low public credibility and appearances of
impropriety and political influence. Its inefficient court administration was reflected in archaic procedures,
inadequate control mechanisms, duplication of tasks, poor records management, and weak administrative
and logistical support to the judges. Also, inadequate judicial statistics failed to give an accurate picture of
the system's problems, let alone enable the introduction of quality control and effective planning. The courts
depended on dilapidated facilities, majority of which were rented, an impediment to investment in
improvements, many lacking even the most rudimentary equipment and service facilities, without
standardized procedures and adequate internal networks or communication. The judiciary also lacked an
integral vision of itself as a system and as a service provider. Therefore, in line with the CAS' goals, and to
improve the enabling environment for national development, the Government and the Bank agreed to
collaborate in pursuing ways of achieving improved efficiency in the allocation of resources within the
Judiciary, increased courtroom productivity and efficiency, and reduced private sector costs of dispute
resolution.

The Project accordingly was aimed at improving the performance of the judiciary by upgrading its
administration and infrastructure, improving case processing and court management, and strengthening the
capacity and capabilities of judicial operators (including public defenders) and judges through better
sustained training.

3.2 Revised Objective:
Project activities have been refined during implementation, in consultation with judges, judicial staff, and
NGOs.

3.3 Original Components:
The components of the Project included:

         -Strengthen Administration of the Judicial System;
         -Courtroom Administration;
         -Judicial Training;
         -Physical Infrastructure.

3.4 Revised Components:
None

3.5 Quality at Entry:
Quality at entry was not fully satisfactory. This was evident from the fact that legislature approval took
about two years after Bank approval. This was also most evident and important in the absence of adequate
institutional machinery in the Council for carrying out the Project, and the Council's insufficient
preparation for the task. Nor was there a suitable plan ready for the activities to be conducted. To its
credit, that apparently was genuine, it shared Government/Bank concern with the fundamental sector
problems. However, there is very little evidence of precise, well formulated plans to overcome these, along
with firm, authoritative Government commitment for their implementation. Nor do the Project plans reflect
any consideration of the concerns or possible involvement of the Venezuelan civil society, despite its long
standing, pronounced criticisms of the judicial system. The design of the Project was weak in these



                                                       - 2 -

respects. As one consequence, they led to the deferral of real, meaningful activity until about three years
after Loan approval. To be precise, this delay was at least partly attributable to complex, unpredictable
country difficulties at the time. As one effect, none of the persons in the Perez administration with whom
the Project idea and arrangements were agreed upon, were in office by the time it came to launch it.
However, it is judged that, because of insufficient Government readiness for that launch, the tardy and
ineffectual start of Project operations probably would have occurred even without these country problems.

These deficiencies are notable on several accounts:

-The SAR indicated that the Project design stemmed from lessons learned from public sector management
Projects. It referred to lessons "derived from OED assessments of free-standing technical assistance in
Africa and LAC Technical Department evaluations of recently completed public sector management
Projects in Chile and Peru." Despite these, however, the Project appears to have been begun on an
exceedingly thin basis. In particular as indicated above, the record of the first several years of virtual
absence of regional and country knowledge indicates the lack of a satisfactory assessment of the Borrower's
capabilities for suitable administration and supervision of development activities.

-The absence of that assessment is particularly striking in view of the circumstances at the time of the
Project's creation. Venezuela was declared re-eligible for borrowing from the Bank only somewhat more
than five years before the Loan was approved. This followed a 14-year hiatus in lending. Thereafter, except
for one relatively open ended pre-investment loan, the Government's renewed experience with the Bank
largely was in the form of non-Project assistance. In addition, the Bank fully understood that the public
sector institutions were judged to be quite weak, especially in the judicial sector. The Bank also appreciated
that its own knowledge about the Venezuelan public sector institutions was slender, as well as somewhat
outdated.

- It has been noted that the Project was developed based on previous work done by the Borrower's agencies,
such as the Presidential Commission for Reform of the State (COPRE) which provided useful diagnostic
information, and on other preparation reports. The overall information base appears to have been limited
which affected start up and caused difficulties. There may have been extenuating reasons for moving
forward without ample information base, especially considering that President's Memorandum (MOP)
labeled it as "the first instance of Bank support for judicial reforms."

- Perhaps because of the resulting information gap, the MOP placed much weight on physical
infrastructure improvements. This stress is evident in the assignment of over 42% of estimated Project
costs to this component, as well as the Project's title. It was true that the Council's many far flung offices
were inefficient and of very poor quality. However, there was an appreciation that institutional, political,
and sectoral elements were not fully addressed.

         These factors indicate that there were obstacles to a fully satisfactory Project preparation. There
should have been more extensive, careful planning done to produce far more detailed goal-setting and
blueprinting of their envisaged accomplishment. To be sure, this shortfall was, in effect, recognized at the
outset. The MOP called for a two-stage Project implementation scheme. Its first two years were to consist
of the design of administrative reform and training, demonstration pilots for courtroom automation,
courtroom rehabilitation, and studies to prepare a second stage. These were to be followed by a review and
a three-year second stage. In point of fact, these provisions turned out to ultimately prepare the way for
successful actions and accomplishments. However, this process is judged to have been longer and more
costly than might have been needed with the design of a better footing to begin with.



                                                      - 3 -

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
There were divergences from the schedule of Project activities, with delays occurring at different stages of
implementation. Initial difficulties included a lack of adequate data about the Council's institutional
conditions, conflicts in reaching a consensus about the scope and design of activities, delays in opening the
Special Account, and the weak capacity of the implementing agency. Implementation activities only began
in earnest in June 1995 (almost three years after the Loan approval).

Learning from starting difficulties and insights from the NGO Report "Halfway to Reform - the Wold Bank
and the Venezuelan Justice System", prepared by the Lawyers Committee for Human Rights, an innovative
participatory process was introduced in the Project, to consult the judiciary on its needs and modernization
priorities. In the participatory assessment, 10 percent of the members of the lower court judiciary took part
in representing different geographical regions, court levels, jurisdictions, and gender profile. By gender,
there were about 51 percent women; by geographic location, all 22 states were represented; by level of
court, about 32 percent were superior court judges, 42 percent were first instance court judges, about 26
percent were municipal or parochial court judges; by type of jurisdiction, about 29 percent were penal
judges, about 64 percent were civil judges, and the rest were administrative or other judges. In addition to
the judges of the lower courts, most Supreme Court Justices, public defenders, executive branch officials,
lawyers, NGOs and business representatives took part in the exercise.


                   Some of the Main Changes in the Judicial Branch in the Last Few Years

  Title V of the 1999 Constitution establishes an assembly of agencies serving judicial functions: the Supreme Tribunal
  of Justice (TSJ), other courts, the Public Ministry, the Public Defender, and investigative and auxiliary agencies,
  including the penitentiary system. Other parts of the system of justice aim at alternative dispute resolution (ADR).
  Justices of peace, arbitration, mediation, and conciliation are promoted by the state without prejudice to the formal
  activities. The administration of justice thus is not a monopoly of the state. Authorities of the indigenous towns can
  use courts with judicial rules and procedure based on ancestral traditions. In fact, the government is training
  community-based justices of the peace, promoting measures for dispute settlements in indigenous communities, and
  has eliminating court fees. The judicial system is to receive a minimum of 2 percent allocation of the national budget.

  The Constitution also brought about the merging of institutional structures, decentralization of functions, and creation
  of new institutions. The former Supreme Court of Justice has been reorganized as the Supreme Tribunal of Justice,
  TSJ, with three additional chambers. Also, the TSJ now administers the lower courts through its Direccion Ejecutiva
  de la Magistratura (D.E.M.). To increase the participatory and transparent nature of judge selection, open national
  competitions are now required. These have been held in three states and others are in progress. There is an increased
  emphasis on professional development and an independent school has been set up to promote the judicial profession.
  The new Constitution also permits the creation of "judicial circuits" and improvements in the legal processes
  regarding civil, labor, and mercantile issues, in order to make those processes more public, oral, and quicker. Two
  new laws include a new criminal procedure code (COPP) and one for the protection of children and adolescents
  (LOPNA).

  The Judicial Branch consists of TSJ, other courts, Administrative Office (DEM) and the Public Defender, the
  Inspector General of Courts and the Judicial School. The TSJ is the highest tribunal in the nation and the director of
  the judicial branch. It is made up of the Plenary, Constitutional, Political/Administrative, Electoral, Civil, Criminal,
  and Social Chambers. D.E.M. is the administrative arm of the TSJ. It has the task of administering the public
  resources to support the lower judicial agencies. Its structure includes provisions for criminal and civil judicial
  circuits. Judges are promoted by public mechanisms intended to ensure their suitability. They are nominated by a TSJ
  commission, selected by citizen representatives, and appointed by the TSJ. Tribunals of the Judiciary Discipline are
  pending, but are not yet established. Temporarily, the judicial discipline process is being managed by the Inspector
  General of the courts and a commission on Judicial Branch restructuring.


Thereafter, Project implementation progressed satisfactorily, more or less, but activities were temporarily
halted due to broad sectoral changes wrought by the new Constitution of 1999. Around the same time, a



                                                                - 4 -

new Criminal Code with oral procedures and other far-reaching changes was introduced. The new
Constitution eliminated the Council and installed the Supreme Court, (now the Supreme Tribunal), as the
rector institution of the Judiciary through the Executive Directorate of the Judiciary - D.E.M. (Dirección
Ejecutiva de la Magistratura) (see Box above). After a somewhat strained transition period, the Supreme
Tribunal through D.E.M., became the principal implementing agency and Project activities were fully
resumed and progressed apace. Loan extensions until October 31, 2002 were required to fully install the
pilot court systems and related changes, and later to replicate these improvements, which were launched in
Barquisimeto and Barcelona.

4.2 Outputs by components:
     Component A. Strengthen Administration of the Judicial Council (now D.E.M.)

Satisfactory. The Judicial Council was created in 1961 as an autonomous entity responsible for the
administrative and disciplinary governance of the Judiciary Branch, with jurisdictional matters remaining
under the purview of the Supreme Court. During Project design, the need to focus on its institutional
capabilities for overcoming organizational and operational shortcomings of justice administration was a
clear priority. The Council was then highly bureaucratic and judged to be politicized. It suffered from an
overly centralized decision-making process and a large and informal organizational structure. There was
little or no economy of scale in its use of resources and workload distribution. The Council was operating
in rented facilities in a state of physical decay, with insufficient space for its operational needs. It lacked
any modern ICT equipment, was without operational manuals, and the majority of its staff lacked
professional qualifications or training. The Council's dependence on the Executive Branch for budget
allocations, which were largely insufficient, deprived the Judiciary of a good measure of desirable
autonomy. Its weaknesses hampered the Council's ability to promote the efficacy of the courts and
guarantee the stability and independence of the judges. Overall thus, the Council was perceived by judges
and other judicial operators as remote and ineffectual.

As noted, due to the thin information base of Project preparation, it was agreed to first have consultants
diagnose the problems underlying the deficiencies in judicial administration and to design a remedial
approach. The assessment resulted in the drafting of an Integrated Plan for the Improvement of Justice
Administration with two key priorities: "normative centralization" (development of policies, norms,
administrative procedures, and operational manuals by the central office for central and regional office
level), and "operational de-concentration" (application of policies, norms, administrative procedures and
operational manuals at the regional office level under the supervision, managment, and control of the
central office). To that end, the decentralization and delegation of the Council's functions were brought into
effect with the creation of regional administrative directorates located in the courthouses of each State,
providing services for judges locally. Also, a strategic IT plan and an organizational and management
model were developed for the central and regional re-engineering of the Council. The number of its
personnel was reduced and new Directorates were structured according to the hierarchy of functions
established by the new model, which were staffed with qualified personnel. A new office was acquired for
court administration, which was provided with Intranet, facilities and departments of budget and finance,
human resources, planning and institutional development, and the required office services were brought
under one roof. These new facilities with modern ICT tools and trained staff were inaugurated October 28,
1998. At this occasion, the Government lauded Bank support for helping improve judicial administration
and gave a plaque of recognition. Also, in the last two years, an integrated financial management system
(SIGECOF) was implemented at the central and regional office levels. The judiciary also published annual
reports over the last years with data and statistics about court operations. Annual work plans were
institutionalized as part of the budget planning process. A citizen participation office was also set up.
Under this component, part of studies resulted in court fee reform, as court fees were discontinued with a



                                                       - 5 -

significant impact on low income users.

When the new Constitution came into effect, it produced numerous legal reforms and new instruments that
significantly altered the judicial landscape. A main one concerned the need to separate the administrative
and disciplinary functions of judicial governance--identified as a priority in early stakeholder consultations
and means of resolving the ongoing power struggle between the Council and the Supreme Court. This was
responsible for the elimination of the Council and the creation of the Executive Directorate of the Judiciary
(Dirección Ejecutiva de la Magistratura) instead. The D.E.M., under the aegis of the new Supreme
Tribunal of Justice became responsible for the administration of the Judiciary Branch, although the
ultimate authority as well as responsibility for disciplinary matters remained with the Tribunal. The
Project's relationship to these changes was a symbiotic one.

The Project acted in some cases as a catalyst for change, and in other cases, it responded to the new
conditions created by these changes. The new Organic Code for Criminal Procedure (COPP), for instance,
which introduced oral hearings for criminal cases, required new organizational, infrastructure, and human
resources training for the courts to properly meet the procedural requirements of the Code. The outcomes
of the Judicial Council reorganization efforts refer to issues as diverse as: a new normative framework to
regulate D.E.M., more professional personnel, more modern facilities, more decentralized system,
automated payroll distribution, reducing personnel in accordance to new qualifications criteria (about 150
staff) and reducing organizational hierarchies, etc. Under the same reorganization attempt, an
organizational study for the re-engineering of the JC was completed; the organizational and management
model for the JC was designed, developed and implemented; a streamlined Office of Institutional
Development was created; a job description manual and a human resources manual were created; and
Regional Administrative Offices were created to de-concentrate JC functions.

The D.E.M.-TSJ thus inherited responsibility for the Project and as the new administrative support agency
of the Judiciary Branch, it has since been responsible, in conjunction with the Supreme Tribunal, for the
development of the Judiciary's strategic, operational, and budgetary plans. The new Constitution, and the
public sector upheaval that accompanied it, brought most Project activities to a halt until 2001,
necessitating extension to the Loan Agreement until 2002.

In spite of the lack of a concerted plan at outset, as well as internal and inter-institutional strife regarding
the scope and priorities of the Project in its development phase, an often precarious political situation and a
new Constitution that temporarily halted activities mid stream, Project accomplishments have achieved
substantial changes that provide a basis for continued improvements in judicial administration. The
Government's constitutional, policy and institutional changes have also provided footing for improved
judicial governance. The consolidation of judicial governance responsibilities within the Supreme Tribunal,
formerly at the Judicial Council, and the de-concentration of many regional governance functions have
strengthened the autonomy and effectiveness of justice administration. The Project ultimately exceeded
initial goals by bringing into effect improvements in administration across the whole Judicial Branch and
not solely at the Judicial Council. Overall, these changes provide some potential for strengthening
Venezuela's capacity to provide effective justice services.

The Project has brought about far-reaching changes in strengthening and streamlining judicial governance,
and this record shows a mixed but clearly positive scorecard of accomplishments over the total Project
period (For example, user satisfaction survey with services provided by DEM, see graph below). However,
the institutional capabilities of the Judiciary Branch still fall short of the need to develop national judicial
policies effectively. The respective roles and competencies of the Supreme Tribunal and the D.E.M. still
need to be clarified. The involvement of judges in the development of institutional and modernization plans


                                                       - 6 -

needs to be given greater impetus. Although considerable improved, the processing of judicial statistics still
requires strengthening. Future and ongoing modernization efforts would benefit from leveraging current
achievements and consolidating Project activities for the strengthening of judicial governance. Areas of
institutional coordination, communication, statistics and regional support services also need to be
strengthened further.


              When being attended, how fast were you
                                    served?


                               Very slowly
                                   5%

               Slowly
                9 %




                                                                        Quickly
                                                                         4 9 %

   Very quickly
      3 7 %




                      Quickly  Very quickly  Slowly  Very slowly


Component B. Modernization of Courtroom Administration

Highly Satisfactory. The Project achieved highly commendable strides in improving the structure,
management and delivery of judicial services with the successful implementation and replication of a new
organizational model for judicial circuits. This was supported by the installation of an integrated case
management system software (Juris 2000) in pilot courts and elsewhere. The new Model and the automated
system that supports it have also helped in gaining some ground towards redeeming the image of the
judiciary with the public by enhancing the accessibility, efficiency and transparency of services at these
locations. This component exceeded initial expectations as regards the scope and impact of the activities
completed.

This component was the last to be implemented, and so deviated from the original plan in order to focus
first on the Council headquarters in Caracas. This proved to be advisable in order to ensure effectiveness in
the subsequent testing and validating of the pilot courts and the new organizational model and integrated
case management system. These were delayed at first over difficulties in reaching consensus about the
conceptual framework behind the new organizational model for the courts. This related in particular to the
relationship between the automation of procedures through ICT systems and the optimal organizational
structure that the courts should adopt under the new model. It was not until May 1998 that an international
consulting firm was hired under the Project to undertake the design and implementation of the
organizational model and integrated case management system in the pilot courts of Barcelona and
Barquisimeto (Lara and Anzoátegui States). The ultimate success attained at the top governance levels was
instrumental in defining and implementing the pilot in two cities. It led also to the replication of the pilot
court model to five additional criminal circuits and three civil circuits, a replication which had not initially
been forecast for the Project. Although also not initially foreseen in the Project design, the Juris 2000
Automated Case Management System was also successfully implemented nationally in several criminal



                                                                - 7 -

courts, another salient success of this component.

The organization of lower courts into judicial circuits has brought substantial improvements in the
administration and delivery of judicial services by advancing the decentralization of courthouse
administration according to the category and jurisdiction of each circuit, and by promoting communication
networks and an esprit de corps among judges in each circuit. The new courthouse management model,
moreover, is a radical departure from the traditional conception of courthouse organization in Venezuela,
and represents a ground breaking model for efficiency in the management, structure, and delivery of
judicial services. Previously, the administrative tasks had been the responsibility of judges, who each
required their own staff. By contrast, the new system permits the centralization and standardization of
administrative procedures through automated archives, common support services, public information
systems, and electronic document management, thus streamlining processes, promoting economies of scale,
and enabling judges to focus on their jurisdictional tasks. Judicial document management is automated from
start to finish, with unique case identification numbers, the automatic and random allocation of cases to the
appropriate judge --an important advance in ensuring the integrity and transparency of the process--
standardized and electronic document formatting, and built-in electronic court calendars for the timely
resolution of cases. (For more details on the Juris 2000 system, see Section 10. Additional Information; "
Cambios Operativos en Tribunales Piloto, 1999;" and Venezuelan Justice in the Way of Excellenece
(Video) rtsp://streaming2/LC/lcvenz.rm " noted in Annex 7.

Overall, activities under this component progressed successfully, even in spite of a hiatus after the
constitutional changes of 1999. Other Project-financed activities include the design of a plan for the
national replication of the pilot courts based on the evaluation of performance indicators for the pilot
courts; the development of infrastructure guidelines for the design of new courthouses according to the
requirements of the new organizational model and to ensure the standardization of justice administration
services nationally; and the procurement of the requisite ICT equipment, where court houses had minimum
court physical infrastructure conditions. Further, the courthouses of Caracas, La Asunción, and Barcelona
were equipped with interactive multimedia modules for public access to information about justice services
and court cases. Case management information is also available on the Internet through the Supreme
Tribunal judicial portal (see www.tsj.gov.ve/).

Both the organizational model and the case management system are now fully operational in eight criminal
circuits and three civil circuits, with significantly increased productivity and a reduction in the length of
judicial procedures. In Barquisimeto, where the Model was first implemented and has been operational
since 1999, all case backlogs have now been eliminated, and in Barcelona, they have been significantly
reduced. The pilot courts now operate with fewer administrative staff, the duration of case processing has
been reduced by almost 73 percent since 1998, and user surveys conducted since the implementation of the
pilot courts rate a 65 percent improvement in the length of time for requests for information, and a 76
percent improvement in the length of time spent when visiting the courts, also since 1998. These figures are
all the more significant given that the number of daily user consultations has doubled since implementation.
Although the implementation of Juris 2000 in the other courts is more recent and the impact will become
clear with time, D.E.M.'s figures currently available show that the length of procedures has been reduced
by a 50 percent average in all courts operating with Juris 2000. For example in the pilot courts of
Barquesimeto, average duration of criminal cases (procedimiento ordinario) in "tribunales de juicio" is
about 60 days compared with about 275 days in Maracay operating without Juris 2000 system. The
average duration of criminal case (procedimiento abreviado) in "tribunales de juicio" is about 22 days
compared with about 135 days in Maracay operating without Juris 2000 system. In the case of civil matters
see table below with some examples.




                                                        - 8 -

According to a D.E.M. survey, 60 percent of users surveyed nationally rate the quality of services as
"excellent", a significant improvement even after a relatively short time. Judges and judicial operators in
these courts have also received training in the use of the new system, ICT skills and change management.
As a result of the creation of the new judicial circuits for the criminal courts and the transition to oral
procedures for criminal hearings due to the new Organic Criminal Procedural Code of 1999, the D.E.M.
reports that the average time required for case processing has been reduced from between 500 and 900
days, to about 200 days. Public information offices in several courts have helped improve user alienation
and perceptions.

This component is deemed to have been successful in attaining significant results, although there were some
shortfalls and distinctly different achievements than those originally set out. The objective now is to
continue replication of the model and the management system software nationally, particularly in the civil
courts where transparency and effectiveness are an essential incentive for local and foreign investments and
economic development. This process should be facilitated by the fact that judges in the new centers and in
the criminal courts are acculturated to the new system. Additionally, the systems software for Juris 2000 is
designed to accommodate up-scaling. D.E.M., therefore, believes that the replication of the software in all
judicial circuits should not incur extra costs save for the training of judges and personnel in its use. The
authorities also recognized that citizen outreach and information needs to be consistently encouraged and
more efforts are needed to inform citizens of the improvements and build confidence, which takes time in
society. Under this component, a ground breaking survey of the poor and disadvantaged was also carried
out in partnership with the Supreme Tribunal and local NGOs. Its purpose was to assess their needs for
access to justice.

        Table: Case Processing in Civil Pilot Courts: Before and After Juris 2000*
          Type of Case and Court/                      Barquisimeto                 Ciudad Bolivar
                Pilot Location                      Before            After        Before     After
 Contrato de Arrendamiento en Tribunal de           242               127          368         180
 Municipio Ordinario
  (Lease Contract Dispute)
 Cobro de Bolivares en Primera Instancia            790               237          744         242
 (Collection of Money Dispute)
 Prestaciones Sociales en Primera Instancia         785               257          484         229
  (Social Benefits Dispute)
 *Average duration of cases in number of days from filing to disposition.
 Source: Direcion Ejecutiva de la Magistratura, of the Supreme Tribunal of Justice


Component C. Institutional Strengthening of the Judicial School

Unsatisfactory. Before Project implementation, the Judicial School had been limited to conducting a
judicial career entrance level course and a small number of sporadic follow-up courses without a regular
training program or a concerted policy regarding the training of aspirant and practicing judges; a deficiency
that in no small measure accounted for the quality of human resources in the Judiciary. The Project
objective was to convert the Judicial School into a Professional Training and Human Resources
Development Center for the Judiciary, to provide continuous training for judges and judicial support staff
with an emphasis on quality and service management.

The implementation of this component was impeded by three factors: i) the absence of basic working tools
and equipment in the courts at the outset of the Project, which resulted in the need to focus attention and
resources on more pressing necessities; ii) the halting of Project activities in 1999, when this component
was beginning to be implemented; and iii) a lack of institutional consensus regarding the model that the



                                                             - 9 -

Judicial School should follow before and after the changes of 1999. Given the detrimental effect, which the
inferior preparation of judicial operators has had on public confidence in the Judiciary and on the quality of
judicial services, the Project's failure to upgrade their preparation was a major disappointment.

A series of activities were first conducted towards achieving that goal, mainly the development of a
strategic plan for the School. A National University was hired in 1998 to develop and implement an
academic curriculum for the School, and the Institute of Advanced Administration Studies (IESA) was
hired to conduct a study of its organizational and educational needs. These defined a three pronged strategic
approach towards strengthening judicial training: (i) Organizational; (ii) Academic Strengthening of the
Judicial School, and (iii) the Deconcentration of the Judicial School or the Regionalization of Judicial
Training. These studies proved to be fruitless as the activities under this component did not advance beyond
their initial assessment.

Training activities conducted under this component included 25 workshops, 10 seminars and 7 courses for
judicial support staff in management, computing and juridical procedures, with the participation of
approximately 3000 judicial operators. The component also provided some support for training of judges,
public defenders, and staff, in oral and transparent procedures in family, labor, and criminal courts.
Additionally, the Judicial School was equipped with audio-visual and IT equipment and furnishings. In
spite of this well motivated start, progress was halted by several changes of leadership in the management
of this component within the PCU, and the differences over the design and organization of judicial training
at the School. Other training and knowledge sharing activities promoted as part of this program are noted
in Section E, below.

Meanwhile in 1999, changes were accompanied by highly publicized firings and replacements of judges
and judicial operators on complaints of corruption and inefficient practices. This was a positive step in the
short term and one that further intensified the spotlight on ethics and competence within the Judiciary. But
judicial ethics and low public confidence in the system continue to be controversial. There is still a need to
formalize and standardize the judicial career law to strengthen independence, for which the Code of Ethics
of the Judiciary Branch is still pending approval by the National Assembly. Since the new Constitution,
judicial career recruitment, promotion, and disciplinary oversight have been strengthened. Judges are now
beginning to be hired through national competitive processes. Since November 2002, 75 such selection
processes have been conducted for a total of 486 positions to be filled, for which 270 applicants were
selected. In spite of this new normative framework for the selection of judges, the high number of
temporary judges continues to be a problem as a legacy of the past regimes (when temporary judges were
as many as 90 percent), even after considering some efforts, which have been made since the judicial
emergency of 2000. Out of the 1,512 judges nationally, 1,228 (81.2 percent) are temporary. It should be
added that all judges, whether temporary or tenured, can be removed from their posts for disciplinary
reasons. What distinguishes them is the method of their selection, hence the importance of the national
competitive process to ensure the quality and independence of judges. Future activities for strengthening the
qualifications and competence of judges should seek to further strengthen the institutional provisions that
support the judicial career system, including the promotion of a Judicial Career Law that explicitly
provides safeguards to that end.

Although the Project did not accomplish all the objectives set out under this component, some of that "gap"
can be rationalized and perhaps even judged to have been acceptable. That is because of the traumatic
political changes, clearly beyond the judiciary's range of remedial measures. It is hard to say that much
more was attainable under the circumstances. At the same time, though, successful completion of other
Project activities, and the momentum for modernization that has been created within the Judiciary as a
result, have brought about strong institutional support for strengthening judicial training and the


                                                      - 10 -

competence and independence of judges, as a necessary and integral part of the performance of the
Judiciary, as a whole. This support includes the recognition that judges should receive training consistent
with their role as operators and as administrators of the judicial system; that all judicial operators should
receive continued training in all aspects of judicial operations, including judicial ethics and change
management; that the School should be equipped with the requisite resources and facilities to that end; that
the School should establish conventions and partnerships with universities and law schools, to benefit from
existing academic resources and high quality instruction; that judicial training should be supported by
effective knowledge management and sharing capabilities within Venezuela and internationally; and that
performance indicators and evaluation mechanisms should be established to support the quality and
effectiveness of training.

Component D. Construction and Rehabilitation of Courthouses

Satisfactory. This component has brought about a significant change in the concepts of justice
administration and the delivery of justice services in Venezuela. Prior to Project implementation, 75 percent
of courthouses were located in rented facilities, which caused a significant drain on budget resources and an
impediment to investment in rehabilitation and modernization. The construction of the new courthouses was
undertaken in conjunction with the implementation of the new Organizational Model for the courts (under
Component B), resulting in a new conception of the organization and functioning of integrated courthouses
(Palacios de Justicia). This component was entirely financed by the Borrower with some technical
assistance for judicial infrastructure planning and staff training, funded by the Bank. Given that
infrastructure investments are costly and long termed, an infrastructure master plan was prepared with the
help of leading international consultants. The infrastructure master planning exercise assessed the
availability and condition of courthouses (both government owned and rented) in Caracas, other urban
centers and rural areas with the purpose of preparing inventories and obtaining stakeholder feedback. The
underlying purpose was to develop a plan that can serve as the basis for improving facilities over the
medium and long term that can contribute towards the provision of dignified and adequate space for
judiciary operation in Venezuela. Courthouses and judiciary offices were surveyed respect to their
readiness for ICT capital investments, introduction of oral procedures in courts, implementation of new
court organizational model and case management systems (Juris2000), delivery of insitu training and
distance learning, setting up of user information centers, public defender services and library facilities. It
also prepared scenarios regarding cost of renting, rehabilitating and constructing courthouses in Caracas,
medium size urban centers and small cities, assembled international good practices in courthouses design
and prepared prototype models for use in Venezuela.

As it was advisable to focus initial activities on judicial governance, the Council was the first sector
institution to be modernized. It was equipped with the requisite physical and technical resources for
optimum functioning: a modern building for the central office in Caracas, ICT equipment, structured ICT
networks, equipment, and furnishings. Training in the use of the new ICT and the Organizational Model
was also provided centrally and regionally to 540 Council staff.

The standard architectural design of the new integrated judicial centers constitutes a blueprint for future
justice in Venezuela, defined in the new Constitution as a public service that should be transparent, timely,
and accessible. The centers stress public access, have public information offices in the immediate accesses
to the building, the administrative support offices are arranged to maximize economies of scale and
organizational effectiveness, and the courtrooms are designed to suit the new oral proceedings and public
access. The new courthouse design allows all courts and judicial offices in medium size cities to be located
in a single building, with centralized and common support services for judges, and with readily accessible
and automated public information services. As a result of this component, several new integrated judicial


                                                      - 11 -

centers have been constructed, and the Judiciary Branch has taken on the responsibility for building new
centers. This constitutes an important advance since previously they had been the responsibility of the
Executive Branch, with the result that construction was slow and frequently unsuited to the particular needs
of justice services. Also, under this component, a design for "Alternative Justice Centers" (Sedes
Alternativas) for criminal courts was developed, in response to the introduction of the new Criminal Code (
Código Órganico Procesal Penal) in 1999, which, among other things, introduced oral procedures for
criminal hearings. These are low cost, rapidly constructed (eight months), and highly functional centers that
enable the extension of judicial circuit services to the second largest city of a given State. There are now 22
of these "alternative" centers. As a result of this component, the number of courthouses located in rented
facilities has been reduced by 25 percent - a figure, which does not take into account the number of
facilities that have been built from scratch. Several Judicial Centers and 23 "Alternative Centers" have been
constructed under the Project and 7 more are currently under construction. State governments have
generally contributed in the advancement of these centers through the provision of land and other resources.

The record of achievements under this component is considered commendable (as also highighted in the
TSJ comments on the ICR) because of the inadequate initial Project strategy and operating plan, the
Council's lack of readiness for its undertaking, and the disruptive 1999 changes. However, there clearly
remains a lot to be done in this area. The current economic situation may affect future plans. The long term
goal is to provide better and dignified facilities in each court location, whether through rehabilitation,
construction, acquisition, or leasing. The way ahead has been mapped out, and most of the plans for the
future courthouse improvements are available. Future plans for Caracas include improvements in facilities
for civil, labor and family courts in different parts of the city.

E. Other Project Activities

Highly Satisfactory. The Project assisted in the implementation of a number of initiatives related to
improving the functioning, equity, and accessibility of justice services. These activities, which were partly
funded by the IDF Grant 27327, were administered by the Civil Society Unit of the Supreme Court, in
partnership with the lower courts, and with NGO participation. Many of these NGOs were part of the
Alianza Social para la Justicia and played a critical role for the Project at initiation, by becoming
supporters of Bank efforts, especially when a participatory process was adopted in early 1995.

The Venezuelan Judiciary has taken initiatives in promoting dialogue with, and access to, justice services
for indigenous peoples. The 1999 Constitution granted recognition of the traditional indigenous law for the
first time in Venezuela. The Project participated in strengthening that recognition, by supporting the
organization of national and regional conferences on indigenous law, legal instruments that protect the
rights of indigenous peoples in Venezuela, and access to justice in an inter-cultural context.

After the constitutional changes, and the introduction of the Law for the Protection of Children and
Adolescents (LOPNA), training seminars were conducted for Public Defenders in metropolitan Caracas,
and the States of Miranda, Táchira, Lara, Zulia, Barinas, Sucre, Anzoátegui, and Vargas. A manual
outlining the legal framework for the human rights of minors, under national and international law, was
published.

Gender Sensitivity Training and knowledge sharing workshops were conducted for justice operators and
NGO representatives (in the cities of San Cristóbal, Acarigua, Maracay, Caracas, Tucupita, Porlamar, and
Trujillo). The workshops centered on the applications of the Law for the Prevention of Violence against
Women and the Family, to raise awareness of this law among justice operators and women's advocacy
groups, and to promote the prevention of, and attention to, gender and family violence.


                                                       - 12 -

Additionally, with the help of the "Development Marketplace award", the "Voices of the Poor for Access to
Justice" survey was conducted, to assess the perceptions of the justice system among the residents of the
cities of Barquisimeto and Barcelona (the designated cities for the Pilot Courts under this Project). This
was the first such survey in Venezuela explicitly to assess the perceptions of individuals living in conditions
of poverty and extreme poverty, who typically do not make use of formal justice services. (Another survey
in Caracas, in 2000, assessed the perceptions of justice users). The findings of the survey were used to
draft policy recommendations to be incorporated into ongoing and future modernization efforts for
improving access to justice for the poor, and to contribute to a scant knowledge-base on this subject in the
Venezuelan Judiciary. The findings of the survey helped improve user information in citizen information
centers and knowledge of judicial stakeholders in pilot court locations. Among the most significant findings
of the survey are: there is a reluctance among the poor particularly (but also among the Venezuelans in
general) to turn to formal justice channels for assistance in the resolution of disputes, preferring to deal
privately with most family or domestic matters, as well as with some criminal matters; the administration of
justice and judges are perceived as inefficient and corrupt by the vast majority of respondents, with the
exception of the minority of individuals, who have had actual experience with the courts; the judicial
system is perceived as biased, in favor of the wealthy; and lawyers' services are perceived as costly and
overly complicated. Since the Project activities were directed towards modernizing judicial infrastructure
and administration and not specifically towards promoting citizen access and participation-- although there
were attendant benefits in public access and information from these activities-- more needs to be done to
address directly the justice needs of the Venezuelan citizens, and of the poor in particular, and to develop
mechanisms to increase user access and confidence in the courts.

F. Overall Project Accomplishment

Satisfactory. Given the political upheavel and the ever-changing legal and institutional focus in Venezuela
over the years of implementation, it is commendable that the Project was able to accomplish as much as it
did against the odds. An across-the-board review of the Project's accomplishments leads to the conclusion
that the Judicial Infrastructure Project warrants a satisfactory rating.

In spite of a slow start, some internal resistance to change, and a difficulty reaching consensus about
component objectives, the Project accomplishments exceeded initial expectations in achieving
improvements in the administration and delivery of judicial services. The success of the Pilot Courts and
the validation and replication of the new Organizational Model and Integrated Case Management System
have demonstrated tangible and far reaching changes in the administration of judicial services, greater
transparency, public access, and efficiency in court procedures. These gains include the reduction of delays
in the processing and publication of case results along with other areas of limited productivity, instilling a
service-oriented culture, introducing public access and information facilities, increasing the transparency of
procedures, and raising the standards for efficiency and effectiveness with fully automated processes. The
new architectural model for integrated judicial centers is a laudable product of the Project, which should
serve as Venezuela's blueprint for the organization and delivery of modern, efficient, and accessible judicial
services. Moreover, these gains were achieved despite a tumultuous political environment and considerable
changes within the sector. The Project also assisted the Judiciary in forming collaborative ties with civil
society organizations and NGOs, further strengthening judicial oversight and public dialogue about
Venezuela's modernization needs and initiatives. Even though NGOs criticized it, many have recognized its
impacts and Bank's and government support to exchange citizen focus and participation. (See "Halfway to
Reform - the World Bank and the Venezuelan Justice System", Lawyers Committee for Human Rights).

Once the results on the ground became apparent, the Project gained a strong buy-in from judges and


                                                      - 13 -

administrators. The enactment of the necessary laws for the advancement of the Project with the legislative
changes of 1999, demonstrated strong support and consensus within the Judiciary, and in particular the
Supreme Court's commitment to seeing the Project goals accomplished. The demonstration effect of the
pilot courts and the body of judges and judicial operators - now acculturated to the new judicial circuits
model - provide favorable ground indicator for the continued replication of these changes, nationally.

Despite its lack of preparation for reform efforts at the outset, the Council and subsequently D.E.M.
carried out change efforts energetically. The change management that evolved was adapted to meet the
considerable changes that arose in the sector over the course of the Project. Strengthening and
consolidating the central administration, implementing integrated financial management system
(SIGECOF), improving social communication, NGO relations, and knowledge sharing - has helped build
capacity, considerably during the last few years. Capacity has improved, but more is needed.

The Judicial Infrastructure Project, the first Bank-assisted Project to work directly with a Judicial Council,
was also LCR's first venture into assistance for the justice sector and has led the way for other Projects in
Latin America and elsewhere. A highly successful Bank Project (Loan 4270-VE) was also undertaken to
modernize Venezuela's Supreme Court of Justice (subsequently Supreme Tribunal). This Project, which
closed on schedule on June 30, 2002, contributed to highly productive synergies in Project implementation
between the Supreme Tribunal and the lower courts.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Technical assistance loans are not normally examined from these standpoints. However, the investment
made could produce fiscal savings. The more efficient management procedures introduced may ultimately
lead to efficiency gains and improved performance, and in turn - to lower operating costs. At the overall
level in Venezuela, constraints to investment are evaluated by institutions such as CONAPRI (Venezuelan
Council for Investment Promotion) which is taking the lead in the area of assessment of risks and
constraints of the legal and judicial system on country's competitiveness. Judicial reform benefits everyone.
For example, it benefits the public sector in enforcing regulations, promoting accountability and democratic
principles. It also benefits the private sector by reducing the cost of transations and assuring a secure
environment for transactions and property rights. It ultimately benefits the citizens in general through the
provision of access to justice, peace promotion, violence reduction, and rights enforcement.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
(Ref. Para. 4.3)

4.5 Institutional development impact:
Substantial. The Project has helped modernize the Judiciary in pilot locations in ways, which should
contribute to its increasing effectiveness over time, and advance further nationwide. With Council's
termination, the Project's institutional development goal of strengthening might be seen as a moot question
for the ICR to address. However, there are strong grounds for concluding that the governance and
administration of Venezuela's lower courts are on better footing now, because of the Project's institutional
development contributions. The Project has strengthened the Judiciary's administrative capacity, utilization
of resources, and delivery of services, and has helped establish a sound governance framework for
continued development. The Project aided the Judiciary in developing and delivering a new vision of the
judicial system in Venezuela, which should show substantial gains over time in increased citizen and
private sector confidence. In these respects, the Project made a useful contribution to meeting some of
Venezuela's capacity-building needs. It is too early to say how firmly established these improvements are,
or to determine precisely the achieved gains in effectiveness, efficiency, and transparency. Though
anecdotal reports and observations have been promising, it is lamentable that little was done to set



                                                      - 14 -

yardsticks in these areas, and to begin to measure progress against them.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
None

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
   On conventional portfolio measurements, the implementation record was deficient. It took 8 years to
complete rather than the 5 years forecast. Project implementation suffered problems getting off the ground
(also see para. 4.1 and 5.3.) including delays in opening the Special Account, which was not operational
until 1995; and delays in the Loan becoming effective, in spite of good relations between the Executive and
Judicial Branches. Delays in disbursement of local counterpart funds resulted in a slowing of activities
from 1996 to '97 (in particular Component D, which was to be funded locally, and which addressed the
issue of building courthouses with new ICT systems). By as late as 1998, still only about 15 percent of the
Bank's Loan had been disbursed.

In 1999, a Constituent Assembly was created for drafting the new Constitution. All branches of the public
sector were affected by this, including the Judiciary, which was declared under a state of emergency.
Judges were subject to removal at any moment. Furthermore, the Judicial Council and the Project were
intervened by an Emergency Judicial Commission, as a result of which - the Project implementation was
affected. The Project remained in a state of hiatus until the end of 2000, when the Supreme Tribunal
created the DEM and ordered full reactivation of the Project. Since Components B and C had been initiated
at the end of 1999, these were most severely affected by the halting of Project activities. Component D was
also severely affected by these events, not least because of the additional cost of reactivating construction
work after a period of inactivity.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The early delays in Project implementation and strategic planning had been exacerbated by the weaknesses
of the Council. A notable one was its failure to adequately delegate decision-making to the Planning
Directorate responsible for coordination and communication between the Council and the Supreme Court.
Early Project delays resulted from internal disagreements within the Judicial Council and between the latter
and the Supreme Court, regarding the scope and goals that judicial modernization activities should achieve.
Internal power struggles in the first two years led to a rapid succession of Project administrators and
insufficient support to, and delays in, the creation and full operationalization of the PCU, until 1994.
These factors contributed to the development of a piecemeal action plans, rather than the integrated
approach, identified as essential in early consultations and assessments. Unfamiliarity with multilateral
Project procedures further caused delays in decision-making and implementation of action plans; with some
procedures that would normally take four months, requiring as much as a year. There were also
procurement problems, with a misprocurement in 1999, related to purchase of computer equipment, and a
partial Loan cancellation in 2000. The hiring of staff already familiar with Bank procurement procedures,
however, significantly facilitated progress in this area. In spite of this apparent setback of the Council's
elimination to the Project's time line, a clear advantage to this change of venue was seen in the Supreme
Tribunal's prior experience with a highly successful Bank funded modernization project (Loan 4270-VE
Modernization of the Supreme Court). These improvements paid off with the greater strength of the PCU,
the independence it displayed, the absence of audit problems, the PCU's productive interaction with the
D.E.M., and the reasonably successful activities with other courts - beyond the pilots and system changes.

The newly constituted D.E.M. was, therefore, in a position to benefit from the lessons learned of the
Project's first years and from the lessons and improvements brought about as a result of a highly successful


                                                     - 15 -

Bank funded Supreme Court Modernization Project (Loan 4270-VE). The installation of the Project
Coordination Unit within the Supreme Tribunal as a result of these changes (formerly at the Council) was
also significant in facilitating institutional coordination. The functioning of the D.E.M. now benefits from
having new facilities as its headquarters (see Component D). The proportion of professionally trained staff
now stands at 37 per cent, a significant improvement on the Judicial Council's profile, and management
staff is now recruited on the basis of competitive public searches. It now operates on the basis of a
normative framework and operational manuals.

5.4 Costs and financing:
With all the extensions, sequencing of investments, and implementation difficulties, the Project cost
estimates were as follows: component A costs were higher, components B costs were closer in line,
component C was much lower and component D was substantially higher.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Likely. Project sustainability is expected. The results achieved on the ground have secured a strong buy-in
for modernization at the top and among judges and administrators. The participatory approach of the
Project, involving internal and external users, including NGOs and academia, through the use of
stakeholder consultations and assessment surveys - has also strengthened the public perception of
modernization activities, challenges, and achievements, and thereby promises to sustain public dialogue and
momentum for continued advances. As it was noted in the case of the Supreme Court Modernization
Project (Loan 4270-VE), the immediate aftermath of the constitutional changes of 1999 generated some
problems in institutional coordination and placed considerable strain on the Judiciary to adapt to new
institutional structures and legislation. By the end of Project implementation, many of the public and sector
benefits of the 1999 changes are apparent, though the D.E.M. ­ Supreme Tribunal relationship remains
somewhat fragile and tense, and the D.E.M.'s own management and practices need more definition. These
benefits notwithstanding, it remains questionable whether the volatile political conditions in the country
constitute an environment favorable for continued reform activities, whether the authorities will continue to
view these activities as a priority, even though the overall demand for judicial modernization remains high.
These questions remain uncertain, as the current government has tended to interfere with judicial
independence and autonomy. Political forces in the country also suggest possible threats to "the rule of
law". As such, positive sustainability prospects cannot be forecast with any degree of certainty.

In spite of the above caveat, there are strong indicators that the modernization of the Judiciary's
administration, infrastructure, and operations appears likely to be sustainable. The new administrative
framework, court infrastructure, citizen information centers, and judicial circuits model appear sufficiently
well grounded to justify confidence in their continued functioning. As regards future developments on these
fronts, however, cautions should be expressed: the modernizing, upgrading measures are costly to fully
install and subsequently maintain, and although Venezuela's riches are ample, the immediate economic
prospects are worrying. Constant follow-up and support to the judiciary is needed to ensure the sector's
improvement gains.

The factors that contribute to the likely sustainability of the project accomplishments include the following:
The success of the pilot courts and the replication of the model in several judicial circuits is a strong
indication both of the continued viability and adaptability of the system and of the Judiciary's commitment
to national implementation. The architectural plans for most of the remaining courts are already prepared
and the replication of the Organizational Model and Automated Case Management System will be greatly
facilitated by the previous successful testing and validation of the pilot courts and by the Judiciary's



                                                       - 16 -

ownership of the Juris 2000 system software. The demonstration effect of these changes and the successful
fruition of almost all of the Project objectives have, furthermore, prompted the Judiciary to examine the
critical need for improved judicial training and qualifications, a key disappointment in this Project's
accomplishments. The problem of the high number of temporary judges has also served to focus the
Judiciary's attention on the matter.

Another strong impetus for sustainability is that users have become accustomed to the new services and
now expect them. Although the modernization activities have brought significant benefits in increased user
access and public information, the need for a dedicated strategy to create citizen access mechanisms and
public outreach campaigns is now all the more apparent. The success achieved in this respect by the
Supreme Tribunal serves as a highly useful in-country example of the institutional gains to be derived from
greater public access and confidence. This suggests some reasonable prospects for improvements in this
area, in the lower courts.

These factors, with some additional assistance from local and international sources, suggest that it should
be feasible for the Judiciary to mitigate the risks and maintain these improvements. Moreover, strong public
demand for judicial improvements is likely to remain in force, as well as increased presence of civic groups
in the sector. Although it is not possible to garner a complete picture of the prospects for sustainability, this
review concludes that those prospects must be judged closer to "likely" than a negative rating. The fact the
Judiciary has successfully weathered the forces of change in the sector and the political uncertainties of the
last years suggests that the accomplishments achieved thus far will not be undone and that the capacity for
building on them is reasonably firmly in place. Uncertain political and economic conditions in the future
may have a bearing on Project sustainability.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The D.E.M. / Supreme Tribunal, with expressed Government approval, have already drafted plans for a
program to extend this Project's activities towards goals agreed with the Bank, and have requested Bank
financing for it, as the authorities have already been obtaining Government funds to sustain the Project
after the Bank Loan closed. The future program consists of components that would address the greatest
needs for improving the overall performance of justice administration. These are: A. Improving access to
justice, with a particular emphasis on the needs of the poor; B. Extension of modernization in courts, to
achieve greater efficiency, quality, and transparency in judicial services; C. Strengthening the independence
and competence of judges and judicial operators; D. Strengthening judicial governance and administration;
and E. Strengthening reform support, further monitoring, and evaluation systems.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
 Deficient. There were numerous obstacles in the preparation of the Project (see section 3.5). These
included limited information and background on the country context (as Venezuela was a relatively new
borrower) and sector. Apparently as a consequence, the Project scheme and implementation plan were too
general and left to precise development as the activity progressed as highlighted in the MOP. This was
unfortunate for one of--if not the first-- Bank ventures in the sector.

This weak base was compounded by other factors. One was the Judicial Council's lack of readiness for
carrying out the Project. Indeed, it is doubtful that it fully grasped what was involved. This reflects poorly
on the Bank's orientation and "tool kit" for the prospective executing agency. It is little wonder that such
problems as the opening of the Special Account, were so burdensome. Also, there is little evidence of the
Council's "buy-in" into the Project scheme and appreciation of the need for a Project team ready and able to


                                                      - 17 -

go from the start. Moreover, the institutional setting for the Project (notably the troubling relationship with
the then Supreme Court) was not adequately factored in. There was criticism from Venezuelan NGOs
about the lack of any opportunity for their participation in the creation and design of the Project. This
deficiency was subsequently addressed and efforts were made to amend it.

7.2 Supervision:
 Satisfactory. A QAG review (Quality of Supervision-RSA 3, 1999) judged the Project's supervision
highly satisfactory. It noted that: " The design of the Project was very open, leaving a heavy burden on
supervision, which had to give the final shape to the Project in accordance with the circumstances. The
supervision team met this challenge quite well. The Project suffered initially from delays in the enactment
of legislation. Once the legislation was enacted however, it was implemented efficiently. The way the
supervision interacted with the stakeholders in the different stages of the Project created a model for this
kind of operation."

This review concurs in that conclusion and the "Highly Satisfactory" rating. In addition to the factors which
the QAG panel cited, it warrants noting the presence of a strong Bank-led participatory approach
throughout Loan execution. This was very intensive and quite resource-costly, but it paid off considerably.
It appears to have been critical in persuading the Council judges and others who contributed to their actions
to move in the right directions towards their numerous worthwhile accomplishments. In this review's
opinion, that input and the Bank task manager's dedication to it, together with the important advice he
imparted gave the Venezuelan officials in the process, were particularly valuable.

In a significant way incidentally, the aforementioned participatory approach was matched by an equally
significant "openness" on the Bank's part: leaving this poorly founded, slow disbursing Loan alive for the
hopes of yet reaching, successful ends. It would not have been difficult to have justified its termination
throughout its life, or rejecting the requests for extending its Closing Dates. Far sighted judgments ruled
against these, fortunately, and produced good results, demonstrating good Bank supervision and
management vision.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Satisfactory. The deficiencies detailed in the "Quality at Entry" section (paras. 3.5 and 7.1) were quite
harmful, even taking into account the upgrading of Bank standards and practices for such operations during
the 1990's since the Project was designed. However, these deficiencies are considered to have been more
than overcome by the improvements in the Bank's performance during Project execution, and their
consequent benefits. (e.g. highly satisfactory QAG's supervision rating) Also, NGO concerns were
successfully incorporated by the Bank, through participatory consultations with stakeholders. On balance,
therefore, the Bank's overall performance is rated "Satisfactory."

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Satisfactory. Considering its apparent absence of comprehensive guidance, the borrower did everything
possible to ensure adequate preparation.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
Satisfactory. Counterpart financing was generally not a problem, which is unusual for Bank Projects in
Venezuela. The Executive Branch respected the Judiciary's autonomy. Even throughout rocky periods, the
Government did not interfere with operations.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
Satisfactory. The implementing agency worked fairly collaboratively with local and foreign consultants,


                                                      - 18 -

probably to a higher level than "normal," given that Venezuela is frequently not considered to have been a
successful user of technical assistance. It also performed well in organizing the tasks, and supervising work
planning and execution. It did not perform as well in launching monitoring/evaluation functions and
carrying out several communications.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Satisfactory on balance (ref. paras. 7.4 - 7.5)

8. Lessons Learned

a. For judicial reform
(i) It is important to maintain an integrated perspective of justice administration, as a whole, and of the
Project, and to perceive the Judiciary as a system of interrelated services. For example, in the case of
criminal justice, the penal courts, the police, and Public Prosecutors need to be understood as part of the
same system in order for justice administration to be truly effective. With the introduction of the new
Organic Criminal Procedural Code, for example, disproportionate attention was given to judges, and not
enough to the other agencies, which resulted in numerous teething problems in the Judiciary's acculturation
to the new Code, and eventually to a partial reform of the Code. This lack of coordination also affected
training and public information programs. In view of this and other sector observations, mechanisms that
promote inter and intra-institutional coordination should be encouraged.

(ii) The Judiciary Branch of any country encompasses a broad and complex set of circumstances, which are
difficult to undertake in their totality in any Project. Projects should, therefore, be highly explicit in their
stated goals and activities, but should have flexibility to accommodate unforeseen situations.

(iii) The judiciary projects should generally consult and involve user groups along with other stakeholders
in project design and implementation.

b. For reform-oriented efforts in general
(i) It was not a good idea to exclude Bank contribution from the physical infrastructure component of the
Project's financing plan. This fortunately did not prove to have very serious adverse consequences, but
should have been handled better. The exclusion may have appeared to have been an attractive measure
during the design of the Project, and for its processing within the Bank. This may have been done to stave
off possible criticisms for advancing a "bricks and mortar" scheme, as well as to restrict the size of the
loan, for an oil-rich borrower. These possible concerns, however, were short sighted and minor in the actual
Project experience. The absence of suitable and dignified facilities for court functions was, at the very
outset, and still remains, a decade later, a major obstacle to the judiciary's hopes of adequately serving
Venezuela's needs. It retarded organizational changes, adequate internal communication improvements,
and the IT system's substantial upgrading. Fortunately, the Bank was permitted and able to provide useful
counsel in various forms, to help reduce these problems, but this role could have been stronger. This would
have been possible even without Bank funding. The Project arrangements should, as a minimum, have
called for the Bank's consultation or approval of the component's strategy, operating plan, budget, and
procurement scheme.

 (ii) The termination of the Judicial Council laid to rest one of Latin America's oldest (perhaps even its very
oldest) sector institution charged with managing its lower courts. The Project experience was not designed
to fundamentally affect the Council's role independent of Executive Branch direction as well as at arms'
length from the judiciary's rector institution, the Supreme Court. Similarly, its actual operations did not
directly bear on these aspects. Nonetheless, it was eliminated for reasons, which suggest some lessons for



                                                       - 19 -

judicial development. One is that such institutions cannot function properly under the segmented direction
of different political parties. Another is that, like many other large governmental agencies, they need
relatively permanent, full-time executive management to be effective and efficient. Perhaps most important,
and most fatal in Venezuela's case, they cannot do their tasks without a clear, well accepted and enforced,
relationship vis-a-vis the Supreme Court.

(iii) Good collaboration, learning, patience and fortitude among Bank and borrower teams can remedy the
shortcomings of ineffective Project design. The latter and the initial dismal track record caused many to
believe that the operation would always be a "Problem Project." But instead, quite salutary results were
achieved. Why? Because both sides expended efforts to mount a much more effective Project operation,
and sustained it long enough to overcome the initial problems, even under adverse political circumstances.
This was abetted by solid top management support.

(iv) It is important to publicize the Project, but not before tangible results have been achieved. When
Project activities are disseminated, the objectives must be clearly spelled out so, as to avoid creating false
expectations.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Following is the English translation of a letter from the President of Supreme Tribunal of Justice. The
original Spanish text is also attached.

                                     República Bolivariana de Venezuela
                                         Supreme Tribunal of Justice
                                             Office of the President

                                                                                         Caracas, June 25, 2003

Mr. Marcelo Giugale
Director, Country Department for
Colombia, Ecuador and Venezuela
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
The World Bank
Washington, D.C.

Dear Mr. Giugale:

          I am pleased to take this opportunity to send you our comments, as requested by the Bank, on the
Infrastructure Support for the Judicial Branch Project; a project that was executed in its last stage by this
institution, through the Executive Directorate of the Judicature, with the support of the World Bank. The
objective of these comments is to highlight some points that could be included in the Implementation
Completion Report (ICR).

          Despite some delays, obstacles and semi-stoppages at the beginning of the agreement and in the
execution of certain activities, we can state with sufficient certainty that the Project helped achieve
important progress in the strengthening of the Judicial Branch in Venezuela, and that the same contributed
considerably to the modernization of the administration of justice in our country. The aforementioned
achievements are particularly remarkable in the case of the pilot courts and alternate justice headquarters in



                                                       - 20 -

several jurisdictions of the country.

         These accomplishments are of sufficient importance given the particular situation of Venezuela and
the prevailing circumstances throughout the execution of the Project, among which we can point out the
delays in the initial implementation, the constitutional reforms of 1999, whereby the institutionality of the
Judicial Branch was substantially modified, and the subsequent dissolution of the Council of the Judicature.
Despite the aforementioned changes, the implementation of the Project proceeded along and its execution
was consolidated under the management of the new Supreme Tribunal of Justice, and through the
implementation of a participatory methodology, thus overcoming the initial obstacles in such a way that it
even surpassed the initial expectations. In view that this is one of the first Bank projects in the judicial
sector, its results demonstrate that it was successfully completed.

Among the various achievements of the project, the following are of particular importance:

· The introduction of a new organizational model and the computerized Juris 2000 system, to support
efficiency and transparency in the management of the courts, as well as the automation of judicial
processes.
· Implementation of oral judicial processes.
· New architectural design of judicial headquarters, which guarantees greater functionality and access to
justice to the general public.
· Support for the judicial function, through the remodeling of court headquarters and the construction of
new headquarters, greater transparency in judicial processes and, consequently, strengthening of the trust of
users.
· Significant support and active participation of NGOs involved in the court system, in the implementation
of the Project and in the implementation of activities, seminars and fora related to gender equity, protection
of children and adolescents (LOPNA), intercultural law and administration of justice for indigenous
peoples, and the survey "Voices of the poor for access to justice," among others.

         Today the Venezuelan Judicial Branch has the technical and logistical tools that are an
indispensable basis for the establishment of a modern, effective, and efficient Judicial Branch, capable of
meeting the requirements of a democracy. The successes achieved, however, allow room for improvements
in some aspects in which the Project had a more moderate impact: We need to consolidate the progress
achieved in the area of training and in strengthening the mechanisms supporting the judicial career. Greater
efforts aimed at improving the access to justice are also required. The success achieved in the
modernization of the courts and in the viability of the pilot courts emphasizes the need for replicating this
progress at the national level.

         We have reviewed the draft ICR. We are in agreement with the content and the conclusions of the
same, and we appreciate the comments made concerning our achievements and accomplishments.

         In view of the progress made, we want to thank the Bank for the technical and financial support it
provided during the implementation of the Infrastructure Support for the Judicial Branch Project. The
efforts made by your institution have been highly beneficial and productive.

         Finally, I wish to state that we remain firm in our commitment to continue with the modernization
process and institutional improvements in the Judicial Branch, as well as in extending its impact to other
courts in the country. We hope to continue and strengthen our ties with the Bank through a new Project,
already under preparation, whose objectives will be strengthening the access to justice, transparency, and



                                                     - 21 -

the judicial career. As always, we hope to obtain the necessary technical and financial support from the
Bank for this project. These objectives respond to our desire to comply with the mandate assigned to the
Supreme Tribunal of Justice by the new Constitution of the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela and, jointly,
to contribute to our economic and social development.

         Please accept my highest esteem and consideration.

                                                  Sincerely,
                                      (signed) Dr. Iván Rincón Urdaneta
                                                   President



 ComentariosICR.pdf


(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
U.S. Federal Courts, and NGOs helped advance project objective and the refinement of activities.

10. Additional Information

JURIS 2000: Organizational Model and Management System for the Courts

Juris 2000 promotes the centralization of the functions of the courts, such as archives, public information,
and the creation and distribution of case documents, through the creation of judicial support offices that
provide services for judges collectively in integrated judicial centers. They replace previously costly and
inefficient working methods, in which each courthouse performed these functions individually with their
own staff. The new model also promotes transparency and access to justice, through centralized access to
public information.

Juris 2000 supports judges and judicial operators in the management of cases and enables citizens to
access information about individual cases, in a user-friendly and up-to-date manner. Other features of the
system include:

1. Liberates judges from administrative tasks, leaving these to specialized support offices responsible for
archiving, notification, public information and case management. Judges are thus able to focus on
jurisdictional tasks.
2. Centralizes administrative tasks in common support offices, achieving significant economies of scale in
justice administration.
3. Standardizes courthouse management. All courts operate in the same system, using the same electronic
formats and language, thus streamlining procedures and enhancing transparency and security.
4. Incorporates management indicators, enabling the evaluation of judges and the performance of the
courts, ensuring a better service for citizens.
5. Incorporates the format of all documents produced at every stage of the court process, including built-in
calendars and alarms to ensure timely processing.
6. The allocation of cases to judges is automated, guaranteeing transparency in the selection of a competent
judge in each case.
7. The system includes a record of every case, allowing the parties to a case and their representative access



                                                    - 22 -

to information about every action and procedure undertaken in each case.
8. The system generates management reports and statistics, enabling an up-to-date assessment of the
performance of every court, as well as access to national legislation and jurisprudence.
9. The system enables access, via Internet or intranet, to up-to-date information on legislation, cases in
process in every court, and their corresponding jurisprudence.




                                                    - 23 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                     1
              Indicator/Matrix                   Projected in last PSR                Actual/Latest Estimate
A.INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING OF
THE JUDICIAL COUNCIL (NOW D.E.M.)

a. Reorganize the Judicial Council (JC). [now
D.E.M.]                                                                   a. - New normative framework regulates the
                                                                          functioning of the D.E.M.

                                                                          - New manuals regulate the functioning of the
                                                                          D.E.M. Offices.

                                                                          - The D.E.M. now operates in a more modern
                                                                          facility.

                                                                          - There are 23 administrative offices for
                                                                          judicial governance (one in each State), a
                                                                          more decentralized system.

                                                                          - An Operations and Budget Plan is executed
                                                                          annually and revised as necessary.

                                                                          - Judicial governance now has a six-year
                                                                          Strategic Plan.

                                                                          - Payroll distribution is automated and the
                                                                          payroll system creates annual budget reports.

                                                                          - Central restructuring of the JC has been
                                                                          completed; organizational hierarchies
                                                                          reduced from seven to four levels;
                                                                          procedures automated; it operates with fewer
                                                                          administrative staff and more professional
                                                                          staff.

                                                                          - Reduction in personnel by 40 percent
                                                                          according to new qualifications criteria (260
                                                                          central staff and 96 regional.)
B.MODERNIZATION OF JUSTICE
ADMINISTRATION

a.Design, implement and evaluate alternative                              a. - Justice administration is now more
models of courtroom organization.                                         modern, efficient and transparent in several
                                                                          cities: judicial organization and the
                                                                          conception of the justice system has adapted
                                                                          to the new Constitution (incl. oral procedures,
                                                                          transparency, and timely resolution), the new
                                                                          organic Law for the Protection of Children
                                                                          and Adolescents and the new Organic
                                                                          Criminal Procedural Code.


b.Equip courts with adequate reference
materials, IT equipment, furnishings, and                                 b. - Juris 2000 is now operational in several
other resources necessary for optimum                                     criminal circuit courts and civil circuit courts.
functioning.
                                                                          - ICT equipment installed in several courts
                                                                          nationally. Computer networks established in
                                                                          over 20 judicial centers.

                                                                          - Pilot courts in Barcelona and Barqusimeto
                                                                          have new furnishings and equipment.

                                                                          - Automated access to legal information is
                                                                          now possible nationally.



                                                       - 24 -

                                                             - Judges and support staff of several criminal
                                                             circuit courts and civil circuit courts have
                                                             been trained in the functioning and use of the
                                                             Automated Decision and Documentation
                                                             Management System.

                                                             - Management courses have been conducted
                                                             for the Judges and staff of criminal circuit
                                                             courts and civil circuit courts.

                                                             - Improvements and new installations
                                                             completed in several cities.
c.Train judges and other support staff in the
use of the new technologies.




C.INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING OF
THE JUDICIAL SCHOOL

a.Equip Judicial School with adequate                        a. - ICT equipment and adequate furnishings
equipment and furnishings.                                   installed and functioning in the Judicial
                                                             School, including Intranet and Internet.


                                                             b. - Diagnostic study of the training needs of
b.Determine the training needs of Judiciary                  Judiciary Branch personnel and academic
Branch personnel.                                            goals of the Judicial School completed.


                                                             c. - Conducted workshops, seminars and
c.Develop curricular and instructional plans                 courses for judicial support staff in
to meet the training needs and cater for                     management, computing and juridical
ongoing personnel strengthening in the                       procedures.
Judiciary Branch.

                                                             d. - Organizational Model for the Judicial
d.Develop training strategies.                               School designed and implementation
                                                             initiated.


                                                             e.- Design and preparation of administrative
e.Support Human Resources in judicial                        and academic procedures manuals for the
career development.                                          Judicial School.


                                                             f. - Not completed
f. Develop strategic alliances or academic
exchange agreements.




D.CONSTRUCTION, REHABILITATION
AND IMPROVEMENT OF COURTS

a.Develop plans for the construction and                     a. - Development of plans for the
rehabilitation of judicial centers nationally.               rehabilitation and construction of judicial
                                                             centers completed.


b.Rehabilitate existing buildings to enable the              b. - Rehabilitation of several courthouses
proper functioning of courthouses/judicial
centers.




                                                   - 25 -

c. Construction of new buildings for the                              c. - Construction of several judicial centers
functioning of judicial centers.                                      (Palacios de Justicia) and construction of 22
                                                                      "alternative judicial centers"


Output Indicators:
                                                                 1
               Indicator/Matrix              Projected in last PSR               Actual/Latest Estimate



A.INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING OF
THE JUDICIAL COUNCIL

a. Reorganize the Judicial Council (JC).                              a.- Organizational study for the
                                                                      re-engineering of the JC completed.

                                                                      - Normative guidelines for functioning of JC
                                                                      established for the management, governance
                                                                      and administration of the judiciary branch.

                                                                      - Design, development and implementation of
                                                                      the Organizational and Management Model
                                                                      for the JC.

                                                                      - Creation of a streamlined Office of
                                                                      Institutional Development (formerly Planning
                                                                      Office.)

                                                                      - Implementation of automated procedures
                                                                      including payroll management.

                                                                      - Creation of a job description manual with
                                                                      salary scales.

                                                                      - Creation of Human Resources Manual for
                                                                      recruitment and hiring, job placement, and
                                                                      remuneration, training and evaluation.

                                                                      - Restructuring according to new
                                                                      Organizational and Management Model for
                                                                      the strengthening of functions of Internal
                                                                      Oversight, Juridical Consulting, Maintenance,
                                                                      Procurement and Acquisitions, Technical
                                                                      Human Resources operations, Judicial
                                                                      School and Regional Administrative Offices.

                                                                      - Regional Administrative Directors selected
                                                                      through national selection trials.


                                                                      - Design and development of management
                                                                      indicators at central and regional levels.


                                                                      - Deconcentration of the JC functions with
                                                                      creation of Regional Administrative Offices
                                                                      (one in every region).


                                                                      b. - Development of an annual operations and
                                                                      budgeting plan and software
b. Create an annual operations and budget
plan.                                                                 - Creation of three integrated regional
                                                                      management divisions for Administrative,
                                                                      Human Resources Management and Judicial
                                                                      Services functions.

                                                                      - Consolidation of regional plans by the




                                                   - 26 -

                                                               Institutional Planning and Development
                                                               Office in Caracas.


                                                               c.- Incorporation of ICT equipment for the
                                                               automation of procedures, support functions
c. Train JC staff for the effective and efficient              and strengthening of information for decision
discharge of their duties.                                     and policy making.


                                                               d. - Installation of ICT equipment, wiring and
                                                               software with intranet (LAN) and Internet
d. Procure appropriate ICT and office support                  systems in Central and all 23 Regional
equipment for the optimum functioning of the                   Administrative Units.
JC.
                                                               - Development of Strategic ICT Master Plan
                                                               for JC and the Judiciary Branch (first phase
                                                               completed.)

                                                               - Training and Technical Assistance Program
                                                               developed for Judicial Career management
                                                               and IT staff to strengthen case management
                                                               procedures and database development.

                                                               - Development of training programs in ICT
                                                               skills for JC staff at central and regional
                                                               levels.

                                                               - Creation of dedicated JC offices with
                                                               distribution of space according to new
                                                               organizational requirements.

                                                               - Modern office materials installed in Central
                                                               Caracas Office.


                                                               e.- Project Unit established in 1998 for the
                                                               implementation of the Project.

e. Create a Project Implementation Unit with
requisite equipment and qualified personnel.


B.MODERNIZATION OF JUSTICE
ADMINISTRATION

a.Design, implement, and evaluate alternative                  a.- Design, development and implementation
models of courtroom organization.                              of the new Organizational Model for the pilot
                                                               courts of Barcelona and Anzoátegui.

                                                               - Design, develop and implement of new
                                                               Integrated Decision and Documentation
                                                               Management System (Juris 2000)

                                                               - Creation of organizational and operational
                                                               Manuals and CD-ROM for the Organizational
                                                               Model and Juris 2000.

                                                               - Preparation of video material "Venezuelan
                                                               Justice in the Way of Excellence", Caracas,
                                                               August 2002

b.Equip courts with adequate reference
materials, IT equipment, furnishings, and                      b.- To equip pilot courts in Barcelona and
other resources necessary for optimum                          Barqusimeto and the judicial center of La
functioning.                                                   Guaira with new furnishings and equipment.

                                                               -Automate access to legal information
                                                               nationally.




                                                     - 27 -

                                                             - Train judges and support staff of the eight
                                                             criminal circuit courts and the three civil
                                                             circuit courts in the functioning and use of
                                                             the Automated Decision and Documentation
                                                             Management System.

                                                             - Conduct change management courses for
                                                             the Judges and staff of the eight criminal
                                                             circuit courts and three civil circuit courts.

                                                             - Conduct alternative dispute resolution
                                                             courses for the jurisdictional staff of the eight
                                                             criminal circuit courts and three civil circuit
                                                             courts.

                                                             - To make improvements and new
                                                             installations in 22 "alternative judicial centers"
                                                             and at the Law Courts of La Asunción.

c.Train judges and other support staff in the
use of the new technologies.


d. Renovation and partial rehabilitation of the
courts.



C.INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING OF
THE JUDICIAL SCHOOL

a.Equip Judicial School with adequate                        a. - Install ICT and A/V equipment and
equipment and furnishings.                                   adequate furnishings in the School.


b.Determine the training needs of Judiciary                  b. - Study of training needs of Judiciary
Branch personnel.                                            Branch personnel and academic goals of the
                                                             Judicial School completed.


c.Develop curricular and instructional plans                 c. - Design and implement Organizational
to meet the training needs and cater for                     Model for the Judicial School.
ongoing personnel strengthening in the
Judiciary Branch.                                             - Design and preparation of administrative
                                                             and academic procedures manuals for the
                                                             Judicial School.

                                                              - Design and begin to implement entry-level
                                                             curriculum for the Judicial Career


d.Develop training strategies.                               d. - Strengthen of academic, administrative,
                                                             and information (library) resources to support
                                                             the implementation of the new course
                                                             offerings.

e.Support Human Resources in judicial                        e. - Train judges and operators.
career development.
                                                              - Conduct workshop seminars for judges to
                                                             develop strategies for improving the
                                                             performance of judges in the administration
                                                             of justice.

                                                              - Hold workshops, seminars, and courses
                                                             for judicial support staff in management,
                                                             computing and juridical procedures.

                                                              - Prepare proposal for the regionalization of




                                                   - 28 -

                                                             judicial training and for the creation of
                                                             integrated training centers.

                                                              - Change selection of judges to include
                                                             public searches with qualified selection
                                                             committee.


f.Develop strategic alliances or academic                    f. - Knowledge sharing activities (workshops,
exchange agreements.                                         conferences) for judges and Judicial School
                                                             administrative staff with judicial schools and
                                                             branches in the region.



D.CONSTRUCTION, REHABILITATION
AND IMPROVEMENT OF COURTS

a.Develop plans for the construction and                     a. - Inventory of installation conditions and
rehabilitation of judicial centers nationally.               develop plans for the rehabilitation of judicial
                                                             centers completed.

                                                             - Construct headquarters for the Judicial
                                                             Council; equipped with modern facilities and
                                                             equipment


b.Rehabilitate existing buildings to enable the              b. - Rehabilitation of courthouses/judicial
proper functioning of courthouses/judicial                   centers and "alternative judicial centers".
centers.


c. Construction of new buildings for the                     c. - Construction of judicial centers and
functioning of judicial centers.                             "alternative judicial centers" for criminal
                                                             courts.

1End of project




                                                   - 29 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                          Appraisal     Actual/Latest  Percentage of
                                                          Estimate       Estimate        Appraisal
                        Component                         US$ million   US$ million
I. Judicial Administration                                   5.30             8.00          150.94
II. Courtroom Administration                                19.70           18.34            93.09
III. Judicial Training                                       5.30             3.00            56.6
IV. Physical Infrastructure                                 25.40           52.00           204.72
Project Implementation Unit                                  2.60             3.00          115.38

Total Baseline Cost                                         58.30           84.34
 Price Contingencies                                         1.70
                          Total Project Costs               60.00           84.34
                    Total Financing Required                60.00           84.34
Note: Applicable construction costs estimated.

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
     Expenditure Category            ICB           NCB                2        N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                             0.00           0.00         0.00          25.40        25.40
                                    (0.00)         (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                            11.70           3.80         2.40          0.00         17.90
                                   (11.70)         (3.80)      (1.60)          (0.00)       (17.10)
3. Services                          0.00           0.00        13.90          0.00         13.90
                                    (0.00)         (0.00)      (12.90)         (0.00)       (12.90)
4. Miscellaneous                     0.00           0.00         0.00          2.80          2.80
                                    (0.00)         (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
    Total                           11.70           3.80        16.30          28.20        60.00
                                   (11.70)         (3.80)      (14.50)         (0.00)       (30.00)


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
     Expenditure Category            ICB           NCB                2      N.B.F.      Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                             0.00          0.00         0.00          52.00        52.00
                                    (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                             4.95          1.14         3.92           0.00        10.01
                                    (4.76)        (0.46)       (3.41)         (0.00)       (8.63)
3. Services                          3.28          1.00        12.76           0.00        17.04
                                    (2.15)        (0.90)      (11.52)         (0.00)       (14.57)
4. Miscellaneous                     0.00          0.00         5.29           0.00         5.29
                                    (0.00)        (0.00)       (4.30)         (0.00)       (4.30)
    Total                            8.23          2.14        21.97          52.00        84.34



                                                - 30 -

                                           (6.91)             (1.36)           (19.23)            (0.00)           (27.50)

     1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

     2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
       of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
       managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                       Percentage of Appraisal
        Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                                Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
I. Judicial Administration      4.30         1.00                     7.00         1.00                  162.8    100.0
II. Courtroom                  17.70         2.00                    15.00         3.34                  84.7     167.0
Administration
III. Judicial Training          4.30         1.00                     1.50         1.50                  34.9     150.0
IV. Physical Infrastructure     0.00        24.00                     0.00         52.00                  0.0     216.7
Prioject Implementation         2.00         0.60                     2.00         1.00                  100.0    166.7
Unit




                                                           - 31 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

N.A.




                                      - 32 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                  No. of Persons and Specialty                Performance Rating
                                      (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)         Implementation Development
                    Month/Year  Count           Specialty                        Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation*
               1991-1992                 5     CONSULTANT (3); PUBLIC
                                               SECTOR SPECIALIST (2)


 Appraisal/Negotiation
               1992                      6     PUBLIC SECTOR
                                               SPECIALIST (2);
                                               CONSULTANTS (4)


 Supervision
               1993/1994                  3    PUBLIC SECTOR                        S               S
                                               SPECIALIST (1),
                                               CONSULTANT (2)
               1995/1996                  4    CONSULTANT (2); PUBLIC               S               S
                                               SECTOR SPEC. (2)
               1997/1998                  3    TASK MANAGR (1); PUBLIC              S               S
                                               SECTOR SPEC. (1);
                                               OPERATIONS ANALYST (1)
               06/18/1999                 4    TASK MANAGER (1);                    S               S
                                               CONSULTANT (2);
                                               OPERATIONS SPECIALIST (1)
               06/06/2000                 2    PUBLIC SECTOR SPECIALIST             S               S
                                               (1); OPERATIONS OFFICER
                                               (1)
               05/04/2001                 3    TASK MANAGER (1); LEAD               S               S
                                               ECONOMIST (1); COUNTRY
                                               DIRECTOR (1)
               03/04/2002                 3    TASK MANAGER (1); PSM                S               S
                                               SPECIALIST (1); RESIDENT
                                               REPRESENTATIVE (1)

 ICR
               03/03/2003                2     TASK MANAGER (1);
                                               OPERATIONS
                                               SPECIALIST (1)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
                                    No. Staff weeks                  US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation*              81.7                          149.7
  Appraisal/Negotiation                    48.2                            83.1
  Supervision                             265.0                          533.6
  ICR                                        5.0                           34.8



                                               - 33 -

Total    399.9         801.2




             - 34 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                                    Rating
   Macro policies                                      H      SU    M  N  NA
   Sector Policies                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Physical                                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Financial                                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Institutional Development                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Environmental                                       H      SU    M  N  NA

Social
            Poverty Reduction                          H      SU    M  N  NA
            Gender                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
            Other (Please specify)                     H      SU    M  N  NA
         Stakeholder participation, information
   Private sector development                          H      SU    M  N  NA
   Public sector management                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Other (Please specify)                              H      SU    M  N  NA




                                                    - 35 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)

6.1 Bank performance                                        Rating

   Lending                                                    HS     S       U      HU
   Supervision                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU

6.2 Borrower performance                                    Rating

   Preparation                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Government implementation performance                      HS     S       U      HU
   Implementation agency performance                          HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU




                                                    - 36 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

--Report No. 10635-VE: Staff Appraisal Report, Venezuela ­ Judicial Infrastructure Project, July 15, 1992
and other World Bank documents, reports, and inputs (in Project files);
--"Halfway to Reform - the World Bank and the Venezuelan justice system", 1996, Lawyers Committee for
Human Rights and Venezuelan program for Human Rights Education and Action;
--Annual Reports of the Supreme Tribunal of Justice and former Consejo de la Judicatura (in
Project-files);
--Modernization Plans, NGOs Reports, surveys and studies (in Project files);
--CD Rom on "Modernizacion del Poder Judicial de la Republica Bolivariana de Venezuela";
--Proyecto de Modernizacion del Poder Judicial, May 26, 2003, Comite Tecnico de Modernizacion; and
Annexes by Andrea Brizuela, Erika Contreras, Mariagreli D'Alvano, Helene de Garay, Laura Louza, Ana
Milena Orrego, Norma Perez, Carlos Ponce Silen, Jacqueline Richter, Carmen Luisa Roche, Karol
Tamma, Laura Teran, Maria Alejandra Vasquez.
--Cumbre Iberoamericana de Presidentes de Cortes y Tribunales Supremos de Justicia, 1998, Consejo de
la Judicatura, Venezuela;
--Chronograma Abreviada de Desarollo del Proyecto, 2003, Maria Novoa, Venezuela;
--Cambios Operativos en Tribunales Piloto, 1999, Consejo de la Judicatura, Venezuela (Operational


Changes in Pilot Courts)    CambiosOperativos.pdf
                                               ;
--Judicial Modernization in Venezuela: Challenges and Priorities, 2002, TSJ and D.E.M.


 VEJudicialChallenges.pdf
                       ;
--Venezuelan Justice in the Way of Excellenece - video: rtsp://streaming2/LC/lcvenz.rm
--Other electronic IRIS files for the Project.




                                                  - 37 -

Additional Annex 9. List of Contributors

Marcelo Giugale, Country Director, LCC6A
Ernesto May, Sector Director, LCSPR
Ronald Myers, Sector Manager, LCSPS
Vicente Fretes-Cibils, Lead Economist, LCC6A
Connie Luff, Senior Operations Officer, LCCIC
Waleed Malik, Task Manager, LCSPS
Felipe Saez, Resident Representative, LCCVE
David Varela, Resident Representative, LCCVE
Richard Messick, PREM (Peer Reviewer)
Lubomira Beardsley, LEGLR
Eduardo Wallentin, Senior Country Officer, LCC1C
Linn Hammergen LCSPS
Lisa Bhansali LCSPS
Nina Ohman, LCSPS
Sharon Spriggs, LCSPS
Pilar Mengod, LCCVE
Ana Pereda, LCCVE
Ruxandra Burdescu, LCSPS
Candido Perez Contreras, General Manager, TSJ
Ricardo Jimenez, Director, DEM-TSJ
Laura Louza, Manager, DEM-TSJ
Adriana Lander, Manager, TSJ
Hon.Judge Peter Messitte, US District Court
Russel Wheeler, Administrative Office of Federal US Courts
Maria Novoa, Consultant
Mireya Carpio, Consultant
Ligia Carvajal, Consultant
Enrique Allié, Consultant
Birgit Lindsnas, Danish Center for Human Rights
Lisbeth Arne Pedersen, Danish Center for Human Rights




                                                 - 38 -

- 39 -

